ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08.ana.ud1281e25	The requested alternate of the State of Telemark, Gunn Marit Helgesen, is requested to be exempted from the meeting of the representative of Ingvald Godal's leave on 10 and 11 June, for reasons of well-being. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Other alternate, Kari Lise Holmberg, is proposed to meet during the leave period. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative Per Ove Width shall apply for leave from 14 June to 16 June in order to attend a meeting of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Paris. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Varare representative, Jan Th. Langaard, called to meet during the leave period. 3rd@item: inlistbox Jan Th. Langaard is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Per Ove Width.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08.ana.ud1281e70	When this proposal was promoted, it was an honest and honest attempt to get the management of oter, which is one of many coastal pests, under control. Today, there are some coastal areas where oats are about to flood. When I grew up – I am now a man of well 50 years old – there was a hunt for ots, i.e. for approx. 40 years ago. I too much around the islands and looked to try to see an otter. I never managed to get an eye on one. We saw the traces of it in the snow, and we knew it was there, but we never could see it. Today, the otter is at peace. It's an extermination threat, must know! Today, someone sees it almost everywhere. It rotates into the bins to find food. It is on board the boats and steals fish. It's under the fish shelves and steals fish. Yeah, it's so aggressive, it's gonna get on people. If you don't have the boots on, it runs in your foot. [[Laughter]] But the threat of extinction – yes, it is! It's a completely insane management system on this pest. It's a paradox that at the time you were hunting this animal, you couldn't see it, but then the stock was sustainable, then you could harvest, while today, when the otter is endangered and at peace, it almost goes to people. I don't understand, and the coasters don't understand either. So what happens in this case, as in all other cases where the administrators are on total collision course with the ones to be managed, is that people take the matter in their own hands. They shoot the otter, wrap it in the bag, put it on a seeker, and lower it on deep water. [[Laughter]] I thought when I promoted this proposal, that one should get control of the situation, regain confidence in the administration and get normal conditions. But it's hopeless, it's no use. The administration is running its own race. I think I'm going to come forward with a proposal at a little later stage and point out the Ministry of the Environment at the Nobel Peace Prize. Had we had something called the conservation prize, they had qualified with their entire management system. Because no matter what you document, the people who live and live in the districts don't understand anything! This is a typical example of how urban people who have never lived in nature or had problems with this will determine how to live and live in the districts and how to manage their livelihoods. This is a classic example. And then they come dangling with the Bern Convention and the Red List and say that we have a responsibility in relation to the international community. Yeah, well, that's what happens to those who do business. The otter goes in and out of the salmonnets, and there is a great loss because the otter tears the nuts and steals salmon. There are numbers that prove that up to 10 pst. the contents of a meard are stolen by oter. The otter goes into the nut and steals fish and leaves farms with it. Nobody pays for it. There's no compensation to get. Then it lies in the rivers. We have still addressed the problem of the disappearance of the anadromous fish species – salmon and trout. Of course it's the commercial fisherman, it's drift nets and it's all sorts of other things that are responsible for this, but otters and sales – no, they don't do anything, they're animals that are supposed to be there, they have their natural place in nature and they do no harm. They live by the grace of God and the north wind. You don't have to start accusing them of eating and living these species that are so threatened. Here there's an imbalance in nature, created by the administrators. It's the wrong administration, it's completely insane, whether I can use such an unparliamentary language, and it's just the administrators that are ruining nature. This is my reverent claim. Then you get a letter from a union that's more concerned with looking at the birds than managing, and that claims that otters don't eat birds, while you have good documentation, pictures of otres running around with the reptile in the jaw, and that's not exactly, I think, to look at the reptile or to show it out, that's because the otre eats it, actually! So here it's argued with so many contradictions, so much hesitation, if I'm going to say it, that I'm completely confused. My proposal was an honest attempt for once to try to get the administration on track. The Committee could not even agree on stock registration in order to get it started. No, we know, we'll tell you. The department says you know enough, you don't have to register. The question is, how many eights are there? Yeah, they're going to be dwindling with numbers of maybe 2,000 to 3,000, but it might be 50,000, but no one knows it, because this is a guy that's very hard to count.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08.ana.ud1281e89	Of the many perceptive opinions of the previous speaker, I will just comment on two, and so briefly explain the very background to the recommendation of the department, which the Committee has followed up. First I have to be allowed to say that it is the first time someone has said that they will nominate me at the Peace Prize. It's nice, but I'm a little uncertain about the motivation. The second is that today, from Stortinget's pulpit, Stokmarkne is clearly appointed as a city. Stokmarknes is a densely populated town in the Western Baltic region of Northern Ireland – the same state from which the Bastisen region originates, and thus where the environmental councils have grown up. So it's not just urban people who've been involved in this case. The government has worked quite systematically to mitigate conflicts between the central authorities and the districts of environmental management. It has, among other things, as a result, we have had less intervention in municipal plans than before. As a result, we have made extensive use of conditional killing permits for predators, so that we can quickly take a pest, and this has led to the deployment of a number of protected areas and the provision of local government to local communities, as well as the implementation of processes in advance of protection decisions in such a way that both the local population and business interests are involved much earlier than before. When it comes to the matter itself, let me just make a few brief comments. Firstly, the otter in the red list is not classified as an extermination threat but as a considerate one. And that means that even within today's management there is the possibility of killing a pest. There has also been extensive damage to the otter. I think it is important that we still have the opportunity to do so, and that has also been emphasised by the Committee in its recommendation. At the same time, then, the otter is absent or strongly decimated in parts of the country, and Norway has a responsibility in the international context to help us still have oter. And I think that today's law along with having the oter listed as considerate, while it is possible in some parts of the country to take out pests on a relatively large scale, is the best way to combine these two considerations, and I am therefore pleased that a joint committee has agreed to that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08.ana.ud1281e102	This case looks and sounds very simple, but for those who are hit by the oter's guys, it's not that easy. Along the North Coast there is a major problem for many farming industries. Annually, pests, oats and sprats kill farmed fish at a value of 35 million. kr, in addition to the costs of production losses. This actually constitutes 800000 fish. These figures are Nordic research which has been submitted following a study on industrial disappearance caused by pests. The otter is the largest pest in the farming industry. In Northern Ireland, farming industries have had a good growth. But that means that the population of oter also gets a nice growth. The studies in Nordic research tell us that 94 pst. pests have been domesticated by farming plants in the Nordic countries and mainly otters. This creates stress situations in the mermaids, and thus the chances of disease and escape become very great. In a hermitage plant, almost the entire population was lost during a winter. I'm not saying that the otter is going away from the red list, but it's important to remember the plague in some places in the country. I am therefore pleased with the answer given by the Directorate of Nature Management and the answer given by the Council of State, Guro Fjellanger, in the Questionnaire on 28 October 1998, saying that they will uphold the practice of breeding permits. However, the most important thing is that she will consider further measures if the development of the otterplagues so requires. It is therefore important that Document No. 8:21 from Steinar Bastisen is not rejected, but attached to the protocol, so that there may be a reminder that parts of the country have these plagues.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08.ana.ud1281e113	Several have not asked for the word. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08.ana.ud1281e121	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08.ana.ud1281e143	There is no record.
