ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e27	Honourable co-representatives! Former state councillor and councilman Trygve Haugeland died just before Christmas, 84 years old. With him, a marked personality in Norwegian society has gone away. Trygve Haugeland grew up on the Haugeland genealogy farm in Lwagal, West Agder. After Haugeland graduated from Norway's agricultural high school in 1937, he participated in the establishment of Tomb agricultural school and worked there for some years as a teacher. In 1946 he participated in the founding of Läggal agricultural school in his home municipality, and served as principal at the school until 1953. During the war he also took over a farm in his home municipality and drove it forward. From 1963 and for three years in advance, Haugeland built an agricultural school in Ethiopia under the direction of the Norwegian Lutheran Mission Union. Later he had agricultural assignments in Liberia and Sudan under the direction of the Methodist Church and the Church's Emergency Aid respectively. From 1967 to 1977, Haugeland was the head of agriculture in West Agder. Just after the war, Trygve Haugeland was given local political commission in his home municipality, among other things. as rapporteur-general for eight years. He was alternate to the Storting of the Bond Party in West Agder for the first two peak periods after the war. He was a permanent representative in the period 1958-61, and was then a member of the Administrative Committee. As a co-representative, he was particularly concerned about resource issues and industrial policy. In the Korvald government, Haugeland was Minister for the Environment from October 1972 to March 1973, when he had to retire due to illness. Trygve Haugeland was also widely used in government councils and selections. He was, among other things, Member of the Management Board of the Norwegian Waterways and Electricity Service 1963-79 and of the Management Board of NORAD 1968-72. In the Nobel Committee, Trygve Haugeland sat for ten years, from 1974 to 1984. He made a special effort as chairman of the so-called resource committee 1968-71, leading up to the establishment of the Ministry of Environment. Trygve Haugeland was creative and imaginative, with the ability to inspire others and spread joy and well-being around him. Former PAC Odd Vigestad is dead, 83 years old. Vigestad was involved in political work quite early. He was a member of Ålesund City Council for over 20 years from 1952, and during this period he was elected to a number of municipal and county councils. In 1969 Vigestad was elected to the Stortinget as representative of the Christian People's Party from More and Romesdal and was set for three periods until 1981. Vigestad had a political commitment that abounded. He was first a member of the Defence Committee and was also widely used in this context as a delegation in international assemblies. For the last two periods, he sat on the Industry Committee, where he ran out of his regional and fiscal interests. He got engaged, among other things. strongly in order to reduce the overall tax burden and otherwise improve the framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises. After Vigestad finished at Stortinget, he actively entered the party work in his hometown. This was typical of Vigestad, he would like to take a roof when needed. Vigestad knew both his city and his county well, and had wide confidence. The voluntary organisation also benefited from his willingness to work and from his workforce. He was, among other things, Chairman of the KFUM comrades in Ålesund for several years and long-term member of the Board of Directors of Ålesund KFUM. Vigestad was unusually conscientious, and his field of interest was far fading. Many will remember his committed efforts with gratitude for his local policy as well as for his national policy efforts. We bring peace to Trygve Haugelands and Odd Vigestad's memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e63	Two permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on the sick leave of the representative Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt from 2 February onwards and until further notice from the representative May-Helen Molvær Grimstad on leave from 2 February until 10 February to take part in a study trip under the direction of the European Visitors' Programme – EUVP – to Belgium and the United Kingdom On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:Møre and Romesdal counties: Anne Lise LundeRogaland County: Helga Rullestad
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e98	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e103	I suggest Per Ove Width.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e108	Per Ove Width is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Per Ove Width is unanimously elected President of today’s meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e120	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for the main speakers from each party group, parliamentary leaders and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes and for the other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each party group and parliamentary leaders, as well as five lines with replies from members of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e127	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for responding positively to the question from the Labour Party about doing good for the government's policy vis-à-vis the EU through the distribution we heard some time ago. This should be a debate on developments in the EU other than those directly resulting from the EEA Agreement. The individual EEA issues we have the opportunity to discuss separately in other contexts. The Minister of Foreign Affairs did not therefore place particular emphasis on the individual EEA issues in his briefing. There is also a broad agreement on the handling of the EEA issues in Stortinget now. When the Foreign Minister stressed that we need to discuss each EEA regulation separately and not carry out a theoretical exersis with the use of veto in the EEA, that probably covers most people in the EEA. It is important that an almost co-ordinated growth now makes the EEA Agreement a cornerstone in cooperation with the EU. It is particularly important when the Government is also in agreement about this. The EEA Agreement focuses mainly on the internal market. The Agreement ensures that all countries in the area have the same European laws as national laws. Almost no one wants to experiment with Norwegian workplaces today by jeopardising or removing the agreement. Despite the fact that the EEA Agreement is fivefold in scope, major changes also occur in areas where the agreement does not fully cover or does not cover at all. In some areas, agreements may be relevant without actually covering the area concerned. Examples are the enlargement of the EU and the introduction of a single currency. We're going to use the EEA Agreement as far as it goes, but here too we should be careful to extend the trap longer than he did. It's a good delivery gel. Where EEA agreements do not apply, we need to find other forms of cooperation. One example of such cooperation is the Schengen Agreement previously approved by the Stortinget, with the changes negotiated by the Government as a result of the Amsterdam agreements. The government has approved this outcome from the negotiations and will soon present it to the Stortinget. We should wait with a concrete change of words if Schengen until the Government has presented its proposal. In the debate on Schengen, the arrests did not follow the voice pattern of the referendum in 1994. We see the same thing in other things, for example. in relation to the krona and the euro, and so it should be. It would be strange if the position in all European matters were merely a prediction of a yes or a no in 1994. It seems to the Government that it is not trying to advance the front line from 1994 onwards. I read the statement from the Minister for Foreign Affairs so that there is no limit to cooperation with the EU within the framework set by the public opinion. That border is membership of the EU. In addition, the Government is open to cooperation in all areas where necessary or desirable. Contractual cooperation shall be based on intergovernmental agreements. If this is a correct understanding of the hold that the Government has, then the government party and the Workers' Party are at this point. Of course, we are also in agreement with the Minister of Foreign Affairs that we need a broad mobilisation here in order to get more people involved in the debate on cooperation with the EU and its Member States. We are also in agreement with the Government when the Foreign Minister points to the following areas as being particularly relevant for cooperation outside the EEA and Schengen: Justice and police cooperation enlargement of the EU to new countries Foreign and security policy cooperation with Russia, under the northern dimension of monetary issues in the context of economic and monetary union We see that these are not new things in relation to what was on the agenda in 1994. As you can see, there is nothing new in the development of the EU. The new thing is that much of what we then discussed as a possible development is now being translated into practical action. This is an important change in itself. If we could not agree on anything else today, it would still be important to agree on this elementary reality. We have to act on what's happening, and not on what we think should have happened. ‘We need a strategic vision..., but also a solid portion of pragmatism’, said Foreign Minister Fischer to the European Parliament on 12 January, and the subject was the extension. This is a good delivery gel in many contexts. The government is pragmatic. However, the strategic vision is often difficult to discover. ‘The Government attaches great importance to exploiting the freedom of the hands of Norway, political and economic,” said Minister of Foreign Affairs Vollebæk. This is obvious. The challenge is not here. The challenge is to guarantee free trade in order to safeguard Norwegian interests. The challenge is further to participate in the formation of the new Europe in a spirit of solidarity. We must ensure free trade through the policies we always pursue. The trade freedom was not something we received in 1994. The biggest threat to freedom of action is that we are still in forced situations in major and decisive cases. The government must therefore contribute to our not only being confronted with facts, but also being involved in shaping our own agenda, on such issues. The best defence for the country's interests and, in fact, for the outcome of the 1994 referendum is thus an offensive policy, defining our objectives and actively seeking to achieve them, even where they require active and contractual cooperation with the EU. It is not enough to rely on half-yearly, short-term consultations at a high level, we must actively define and promote our interests by shaping the agenda that applies to us. The fight against organised, international crime is high on everyone's agenda, whether it be drug trafficking, economic crime, illegal immigration, terrorism or environmental crime. We have to answer for the increasing crime, among other things. stronger international cooperation. The EU has taken several steps forward on this front. Europol police cooperation is now approved in all countries. Quite rightly, cooperation is not finished, and so it will be for a long time in the future. But we shouldn't wait until everything is done until we try to get to a cooperation. Then, once again, we will stand before a fully-fledged reality where freedom of choice can be reduced, and we must declare it an objective that we too will participate in the fight against international crime. All our neighbours are involved in this cooperation, and these are the countries we normally cooperate most with in such matters. For us, it's not a question of membership, it's a question of cooperation. If the conditions are good enough, we have to decide when the outcome of the negotiations may be clear. Anne Baastrup from the Danish SF said to Politiken on 22 January: "We were on the ground against Europol, but now I believe that we must be careful not to suffocate Europol at birth by overcrowding it with tasks." Many in Norway were also strongly critical of Europol in 1994, but now cooperation is a reality in the world around us. I guess we need the same pragmatism that we've heard here from the Danish SF. Now the Government says that it has nothing against cooperating with the EU on justice and police issues, including Europol. We had to understand the Prime Minister like this yesterday, and also that the Government wants to take initiatives in this area. We also expect that the Government will clearly formulate this goal, return to the Stortinget with a more thorough and concrete arrangement for such cooperation, and that this will happen quickly. We all see, however, that for special reasons it must take a few weeks before the Minister of Justice can come back to Stortinget with such a case. Norway has the EU on all sides. New countries in our nearby area are on their way in. It is also clear to Norway that more and more people are coming into this cooperation. Those who aren't already there are inside what we can call a pre-membership program. We should try to help make the extension of cooperation as simple as possible. This could create greater stability in our neighbourhood, and if the search countries are actually going to join or not, they have to decide through democratic decisions. Russia is the only country in our neighbourhood that is not in the EU or in a pre-membership programme. The EU is in the process of strengthening cooperation with Russia through its northern dimension. A comprehensive and strong EU could make a significant contribution to closer cooperation between Europe and Russia. The Commission shall include: economic development, stability and security in the region as one objective, the reduction of differences in living standards as another, and environmental issues as a third, and we need to support these objectives and the work done there by the EU through a partnership. The French-British Declaration of St Malo in December symbolizes the new debate on stronger European cooperation in the field of foreign and security policy, but also on defence issues. The objective of closer European cooperation within NATO is not new. Everyone on both sides of the Atlantic has supported this goal. It's a long way forward, but the last few months have marked a new climate. EU countries will try to coordinate their views, and will try to act together in relation to crises, as we have seen, among other things. in the former Yugoslavia. This also applies to the military area. We should welcome health such a development and contribute to the progress of cooperation. We have had the Western Union so far as our anchoring in security cooperation in Europe, and if it appears that the EU will be a more likely framework for such cooperation, we should support it. In any case, we are not members of any of the organizations. We need to ensure an association with the EU, as we have had with the Western Union – a cooperation that I do not believe anyone in the Storting is against. Our allies in the EU have said that they want such cooperation, and this is probably an example of us facing a new reality that will shape our agenda, but also demands that we actively go out and formulate our goals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e195	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e198	I noticed that Blankenborg had a positive mention both of the statement itself and of the Government's efforts in relation to various elements of European policy. I also think it was positive that Blankenborg stressed that the Labour Party in this debate does not want to revitalise a membership debate, but that the Labour Party is based on the 1994 referendum, and that the basis for the initiatives to be taken in European policy is intergovernmental, international and not transnational. Furthermore, I think it was also positive that Blankenborg now strongly downgrades the accusations, more or less stated, that the Government is conducting a passive, repatriated European policy. He went so far as to say that the Workers' Party and the Government in essential areas of European policy should be able to agree on important initiatives. I record that with great satisfaction and great interest, because I think that is also important and correct, given that the preconditions are the referendum and the intergovernmental, international law basis on which such initiatives are to be taken. I would therefore like to ask Blankenborg how he views and assesses the strategic document that the Central Government of the Workers' Party presented almost as a reminder for the Government in seven points, where it states that the Workers' Party is asking for a ‘more active Norwegian participation in all parts of the scope of the Agreement’. What's that supposed to be? What has the Government not followed up since a more active participation in all parts of Europe policy is called for?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e205	I don't think we owe the government for either one thing or the other. What we've pointed out is that it might be desirable if the government had formulated a little bit clearer what she actually wanted, and then had formulated the painting and then actively tried to follow them up. The impression that the government is creating is that it is open to cooperation across a wide range of areas, but there are few new initiatives to follow this up. When the time is ripe, when the fixed consultations are in place, when the fixed meetings appear, one is in place. In the field of professional contacts with Europol, Norway is involved, but Norway has not formulated an explicit target, as I can see, to strengthen the fight against international crime by actively seeking cooperation with neighbouring countries. It's the kind of clear goal formula we lack, it's not the government's will when it first starts up. There we have experience that the Government is conducting negotiations, as we have seen in connection with Schengen, and is achieving good results. I have recorded that the Prime Minister has said that one should be bold in European policy, and that is necessary. But it is not enough to be bold in relation to the previous announcements of the government parties, one must also be bold when it comes to formulating new goals on behalf of the country in relation to the areas you want to solve. That's what we're missing from the Government so far.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e212	I actually think it was a pretty good concept Einar Steensnæs launched when he mentioned the note from the Workers' Party to the Government as a reminder list of what the Government should do. There is obviously also a need, because the government reminds me a little bit of the boy who is sent to the store to shop. He has to bring a note from home to remember what to do. As for what the Government should do, I agree with what is on the note – in the Workers' Party note. I think these are important areas. But it's one of these areas it's not very much about, which I think is surprising, because it's quite obvious that in the field of energy policy, not least in the field of gas, it's huge, positive opportunities for Norway if we just have the ability to formulate them properly. This point is very little developed in the note submitted by the Workers' Party. My question is, why? Is it the case that the Workers' Party does not share the Right's view that this might be one of the important new arenas for Norwegian contact with Europe? I think it will have leadership, not least for Norwegian energy policy. It has implications for the handling we now have of the Gas Directive. It has leading factors to what extent we accept, for example. Gas de France on Norwegian pedestal. In short, it has important leadership in Norwegian energy policy, as the Government shows little willingness to address it. My question is, what is the willingness of the Workers' Party to address these questions?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e219	That's probably the decision of the central government of the Workers' Party is a good reminder, and the parallel of good that would act, maybe quite well. It turns out that he is quite good at buying what is on the note, when he has only got it with him on the trip. Energy policy is, in fact, part of this Decision. Energy policy is also such a wide area in relation to the EU that I believe it is a good idea to divide the different interests into several parts. We have a specific discussion going on in relation to the Gas Markets Directive, which is one of the ongoing issues that emerges as a result of the EEA. We'll come back to that in the form of a specific treatment. In any case, it shows that our interests are structured in relation to the EU. There is not a simple dimension in this. In addition, the experience gained from the debate on the Gas Markets Directive has shown us something else. It is that in this area, which is the case with oil and gas, not much attention from other countries can be expected in relation to Norway’s interests. This is the Norwegian ‘grassack’, where the others have seen clearly and clearly that there are Norwegian interests and one is suspected of being out for its own interests. I believe that in relation to this part, it is important that we have a comprehensive national strategy that can also find out that this is not an inconclusive issue about the Norwegian economy and Norwegian own interests, but that it is, for example, a question of Norwegian economics and Norwegian own interests. in this area, which relates to the Gas Market Directive, is also a question of defence-related resource use. It links energy policy with environmental policy. In this area, it is quite clear that Norway has much to gain from closer cooperation with the EU in an overall assessment of environmental and resource policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e226	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e229	The Minister for Foreign Affairs failed to clarify the conflict in Kosovo on the basis that he would do so on a later occasion. In view of the fact that this conflict is highly concerned with Europe and is very topical, I think the presentation on this point gives the debate a too tight framework. The presentation is primarily about our relationship with the EU. I have noticed that there has been criticism from the Labour Party and the Right of the Government because it should have acted too passively in terms of European policy initiatives. This criticism has been largely of a general nature and was strikingly downplayed by Mr. Blankenborg here today. It is clear that the outcome of the referendum must be at the root of Norwegian EU policy, at least during the current period of enlargement. Furthermore, the EEA Agreement forms the framework for Norwegian policy in this area. This Agreement does not confer on Norway any right of initiative or proposal. Here the European Commission has the monopoly of proposals, and Norway has only the choice between voting against or for what the EU has decided. There is no possibility for Norway to amend or modify an EU decision. To date, Norway has restricted itself to voting for everything that the EU has adopted, without any indication of protest from either the Labour Party or the Right. The government has further loyally negotiated a new Schengen Agreement, which these parties do not object to either. On this basis, I would like, like Mr. Steensnæs asks the two parties mentioned what kind of concrete omissions they believe the Government has committed in European policy. The Minister of Foreign Affairs stated in his statement that Norway has a right of veto in the EEA and that it is prepared to use it. In other words, it's about a real veto right. He's obviously right about that. Nevertheless, I think it is in place with some additional remarks. Once Norway has joined the single market for goods and services, we must reach out to achieve this common goal. I would remind you of Article 3 of the EEA Agreement, which states that Member States are to refrain from any measure that could jeopardise the achievement of the objectives of this Agreement. They shall further facilitate cooperation under this Agreement. From this it must be possible to reasonably conclude that Norway should use the right of veto only when special and vital Norwegian interests are at stake. In other words, it has to be EU decisions that will hit Norwegian interests particularly hard. It would seem unreasonable if Norway, for example, would veto the EU veterinary directive because Norway has a special view on how such controls are to be carried out. A system acceptable to the satisfaction of EU countries must be good enough for Norway to accept it, when the option is to stand outside common legislation in this area, with the result that the conditions for free trade lapse. The same applies to the so-called Food Mining Directive. Here EU countries believe that consumer information in the form of e.g. product declarations and packaging must be sufficient to prevent such foods from being used by allergy sufferers. The Swedish and Norwegian authorities, for their part, believe that such makeup products must be prohibited in their entirety in order to prevent allergies. Sweden has abandoned itself with the majority’s views. It would seem strange if Norway were to present its special health policy approach as a basis for using the right of veto. These are issues that have nothing to do with vital Norwegian interests. It is more about a special Norwegian vision. The fact that Norway is not particularly concerned with public health in all areas is best demonstrated by subsidising food for which we have a health-related over-consumption and that some parties also want to reduce the VAT on such products. In our relationship with Europe, we should remember that general goodwill is very important. Many EU countries are keen to see Norway become a member of the EU. The main reason for this is that Norway has a high gross domestic product per capita. it will be able to become a significant contributor to the EU fund. Norway is regarded as a country that will negotiate with the EU as much as possible special agreements and arrangements, but which is unwilling to provide remuneration in terms of formal sovereignty loss or money. Norway should be aware that psychology is an important factor in international policy as well, and that caution should be exercised when it comes to non-essential issues. We should largely avoid giving our European partners the impression that we are primarily looking to reap the benefits of cooperation. If we're going to achieve something big, we're going to have to be a little bit of noise in a little bit. I hope the Minister for Foreign Affairs agrees with me in this assessment of the use of veto rights. With regard to the conflict in Kosovo, the Progress Party believes that the Government and NATO have embarked on an unrealistic course when Kosovo is not intended to achieve full independence from Yugoslavia. On the contrary, one will try to negotiate a solution whereby the Kosovar Albanians, i.e. more than 90 pst. by the population, shall be subject to the government of Belgrade. Such a solution will mean that Kosovo’s foreign and trade policy will be governed by Belgrade. The same applies to military services and taxation. This means that we are in favour of a negotiated solution whereby the Kosovar Albanians are forced to finance and serve in the only army they have every reason to fear, namely the Yugoslav. Such a solution is, in the opinion of the Advance Party, immoral. Over a number of years, the Belgrade regime has suppressed the Albanian population in a way reminiscent of apartheid. In recent times, the Yugoslav army, in a well - known pattern from Bosnia, has waged war against the civilian population through fires and massacres. More than 200,000 people have had to flee their homes for the time being. The government of Belgrade is the last communist dictatorship in Europe, and it has still broken international agreements, while in Bosnia it is responsible for ethnic cleansing and an innumerable violation of human rights. Despite this, international law is being drawn up and, as a decisive argument, Kosovo is a part of Yugoslavia, as if Yugoslavia were an entirely common state in line with, for example, international law. The Netherlands or Denmark. Some years ago, it was common to refer to popular sovereignty as an important principle of international law. It is clearly no longer appropriate for opportunist European politicians. Let us imagine that, after Norway had dissolved the Union with Sweden in 1905 in violation of international law, the Swedes had marched into Norway and burned most of the population in the East, let us further imagine that, by reference to international law, that is, the Kiel Treaty, Norway had opposed its independence: how had we reacted? Clearly, the Minister of Foreign Affairs wants the people of Kosovo to have to be a sort of sonic victim in order to prevent later disintegration with the Balkan borders in the form of a future Great Albania. In order to prevent other majority or minority groups, as you can see, from creating difficulties in Europe, the Kosovar Albanians must be trampled under the Yugoslav iron heel forever. Against this background, the Progress Party does not agree that there should be a purpose to prevent Kosovo from becoming an independent country. On the contrary, we are opposed to independence for Kosovo and believe that it is the only future-oriented solution. We are further in favour of the withdrawal of the OSCE inspectors from Kosovo, both because their personal security is in danger and because we cannot see that they are capable of anything other than witnessing an attack by the Serbian army. The OSCE inspectors are creating the same type of problem as the UN forces in Bosnia. In both cases, the problem is that the UN and the OSCE should be neutral in an armed conflict initiated by one party that also commits genocide. Being neutral in such cases is actually immoral and stimulates an attitude and an argument that ‘there are two more parties to fight’, or ‘atrocities have been committed on both sides’. In addition, the presence of the OSCE inspectors serves as a guarantee against attacks by NATO, so that the Serbian army has free hands. We look at the expulsion of the head of the OSCE inspectors as a rather uninteresting matter. The case has given the OSCE and NATO first and foremost the opportunity to camouflage a much more significant fact, namely that the Yugoslav forces have not been withdrawn from Kosovo in accordance with the agreement and that they continue their attacks on the civilian population. The Party of Advances will recommend that the Government of NATO engage in air attacks against Serbian military targets if the forces are not immediately withdrawn. The purpose of such attacks is, of course, to reduce the damaging power of the Serbs. The Progress Party will also ask the Government to work to bring Milosevic to trial at the war criminal court of Yugoslavia.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e252	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e256	There's something in the organization's life called hidden agendas, and I have to say I was genuine about what kind of theme the representative had put on the agenda today, if there was a hidden agenda about the situation in the Balkans that Fridtjof Frank Gundersen talked about here. I am a little uncertain as to whether the contribution to the representative is also now a signal of the new European policy of the Progress Party, whether it is such that the Progress Party now believes that Norway's relationship with Europe is so completely uninteresting that one chooses to use the main feature of the European debate to talk about something else. I therefore find it appropriate to ask the representative, Mr Gundersen: is not the Progress Party, including Mr Gundersen, concerned with the process of change taking place in Europe and the consequences they have for Norway? Is it the case that the representative, Mr Gundersen, who is very active in the Western Union, does not see the changed security policy image in Europe and the consequences it has for Norway? Does the representative Gundersen think anything about the new police cooperation and what Norway should do in this regard? And does the representative Gundersen have thoughts about EU enlargement and the obligations that Norway should and must have in relation to qualifying the new countries? Does he not see the need for an active European policy? Or is it that the Progress Party is now changing Europe's policy? It might be interesting for the rest of us to know what it would be.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e263	I have not wanted to use this opportunity to provide an estimation of and a catalogue of different things that are being addressed in the EU. On the other hand, I know that there is a lot of concern in the EU about the Kosovo conflict. They are now primarily concerned about it, and I therefore think it was rather pointless to discuss European policy without mentioning Kosovo, when we have a war going on in Europe, where a number of European states are now engaged, we too, with soldiers. So to this future police cooperation. That's important enough. We have now discussed Schengen up and down, and this police cooperation is in the mould. It's really not a very topical question. You've tried to do it right here, but it's really because you don't want to talk about something much more important.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e270	I have a feeling that there was an exaggeration on the basis of the question asked by the representative Nybakk whether the Progress Party has changed Europe's policy. Personally, I have never been able to record that the Progress Party has ever had any European policy, and so far, the intervention by the representative Gundersen was a clear confirmation of that. It is true that the Norwegian people’s relationship with the EU has been marked by the words of the Scriptures: ‘Your speech shall be yes, yes, no, no’. However, the Progress Party has been successful in aligning itself with the fact that their speech is ‘not known’, almost regardless of the vital issue of Norway’s relationship with Europe, which had to emerge. And as you can see, it is quite characteristic that the Progress Party does not have a foreign policy spokesman who profiles some binding policy on behalf of the party, but a private-practice expert on European law. Of course, the interesting question is not what is on the agenda in the EU at all times; the interesting question is what challenges Norway faces because we have placed ourselves in the position that the representative Gundersen used a good deal of his intervention to describe. This means that Norway’s requirements are increasing dramatically because no one else cares for Norwegian interests. And it is the Norwegian interests that must be safeguarded in relation to a rather dramatic, dynamic development in Europe. I did not record that the spokesperson of the Progress Party said a single word about the development of security and defence policy cooperation within the EU, which is very much affecting Norway's ability to safeguard its interests in the context of NATO. Is it so that the Progress Party does not think anything about this either?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e277	It is not a big deal to say about this either, because we have not agreed in any way on how to construct this defence policy cooperation. After Prime Minister Blair gave a speech, this discussion has been given, but it has not progressed. What is available is that one is dissatisfied with the WEU because the states that are members there do not agree on the policy to be followed. And so now there are plans to transfer this defence policy to the EU, where exactly the same states sit and disagree equally. So what you obviously aim at is to transfer the disagreement from one organization to another. How we're going to deal with it, I think we can postpone until we see how development is going. At least we will have little influence on how this will finally be solved. Otherwise, in this case, I will join the President, Blankenburg, in his statement, and I find it absolutely unnecessary to repeat it. It is true that the Progress Party does not have a complete European policy. Why on earth should you have it after a referendum in which the Norwegian people have said no? Then you have to take it all ad hoc, case by case, just as the government does, and as all sensible people should do.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e284	I agree with Mr Gundersen that it is useful to discuss Kosovo in this debate too, not only because a war that has killed 200 000 people in Europe is, of course, the most important thing that has happened in Europe in the 1990s, but also because it is through the management of crises that the institutions become. NATO’s further development and development of EU foreign policy cooperation is more guided by the management of a crisis such as that in Kosovo than by the laborious day-to-day work between such crises. I also fully agree with Mr Gundersen that it is not meaningful to be neutral in relation to the Serbian repression policy and the legitimate right of the Albanians to some form of self-government in Kosovo. On the other hand, of course, it is a paradox that the Progress Party is now becoming spokespersons of Kosovo's self-government, a party that just one year ago believed that the situation in Kosovo was so secure that all Kosovar Albanians could be sent home without the slightest problem, and where the Vice-Chairman of the party thought they could only learn Serbian down there, and then the problems were over. But let's take the question seriously. There are two main objections that the world community should dictate the solution to Kosovo's self-government. One is that a complete autonomy in the meaning of one Kosovar Albanian state can only be the result of war. There is no conceivable negotiated solution that could mean an entirely independent Kosovar Albanian state. So to go in for it, and if the world community were to dictate it, it can only happen through war. It could be the actual result, but it's a price to pay if that's what we're going for. The second and more significant thing is, of course, that Kosovo's self-government has consequences for what to go into in a number of other conflicts on the globe. What about Kurdistan, Sri Lanka and Kashmir? And what about borderlines in Africa, where there's hardly a single state that has what you can call natural, national borders? These questions must also be answered by the Progress Party if they believe that the world community is to dictate a separate state in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e299	I have never said that the world community should dictate an independent state in Kosovo. There's something completely different about the world community, they just want to prevent the creation of an independent state there. It's explicitly said several times that it's not going to happen. There's something quite different than dictating. With regard to all the consequences that can be drawn around the world by minorities and majority voting, as you can see, which, following the pattern of the liberation of Kosovo, would require something similar, yes, they do anyway. Whether it's a precedent here or not, it's less important. I see it rather so that here we are facing a people suffering from an unimaginable inhuman aggression, and then it is up to this people to come to the aid. Then you get to take one problem at a time, don't let go of solving an acute problem because of a lot of other problems. I see that as an excuse for not doing anything, a loving excuse, where, by reference to the precedent, and a number of predictions about Kashmir etc., nothing can be done in the heart of Europe. – “What you are capable of, throw away in the nearest Requirement”!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e306	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e309	The Secretary of State's statement has been commended. That someone characterises it as a diplomatic masterpiece, the Foreign Minister shall only take as a confirmation of his excellent qualities as a professional diplomat ‘in civil life’. But above all, this presentation is a thorough and complementary documentation and confirmation of the Government's comprehensive and active European policy, which is not only about the EU, but also includes the OSCE, NATO, EFTA, the Council of Europe, the VEU, the Barents Council and the Baltic Sea Council as important elements. Thus, the efforts of the Labour Party and the Right to create the impression that the Government must be almost equipped with instructions — or action notes, as Jan Petersen likes to call it — in order to ensure an active follow-up with initiatives, conversations and negotiations in European policy should be straightforward and thoroughly rejected. But I don't feel sure that these claims will not be repeated. Equally full is this fault, and I have gradually become thoroughly tired of this rhetoric. Criticism is irreparable in every sense. Firstly, the criticism does not correspond to what is actually happening. It is also irreparable in the sense that it is not possible to protect itself against criticism that it is always possible to do something more – without specifying what this ‘more’ consists of. No member of the media with regard to the extensive contacts of the Government with the various EU bodies may be in doubt that the Government places considerable emphasis on and allocates considerable resources to follow-up the opportunities and benefits provided, inter alia, by the government. The EEA Agreement. In addition to the meetings of the Prime Minister and the Councils of State, a steady flow of experts and bureaucrats travels to Brussels and to other European capitals to follow up the EEA Agreement and other cooperation agreements. This is very important. Whatever view of the EEA Agreement as such, there is, of course, only one common view in terms of taking maximum advantage of the agreements and arrangements concluded by Norway. It was supposed to be missing. I also recall the central role of the Christian People's Party when the EEA agreement was dropped through here in Stortinget. We have seen in our party a strong self-interest in showing that the EEA Agreement is still a significant and sustainable agreement for Norwegian interests – not the opposite. I believe that development has shown that the Christian People's Party's position – no to membership, yes to the EEA – has been and is a sensible position, which has proved to be durable. There are also a number of new initiatives to strengthen and strengthen cooperation within the EU. Of course, it is important that Norway closely monitor this development and continuously assess how Norwegian interests can be safeguarded in the context of the 1994 referendum. Let me just mention two of these new areas of cooperation in the EU where the government of the opposition parties has been asked to take what they call new initiatives. This applies in relation to the issue of a closer link between the krona and the euro, and any cooperation agreement with Europol. With regard to the connection between the euro and the krona, it has always been very unclear what is the real idea behind such a connection. Does the Workers' Party wish to leave the current currency regime? Does Jagland want to return to the old fixed-rate policy from before 1992? When he asks the Government to explore the possibility of an extended loan agreement with the European Central Bank, that is essentially what he is asking for, because it is only through a fixed-rate policy that we can avail ourselves of such a credit agreement. And what's the point of expanding an agreement that we can't actually take advantage of today because the agreement has a fixed price as a basic prerequisite? Here I can only see that the Workers' Party is also on a collision course both with the trade union movement and with the predominantly broad expertise of economists. Yesterday the glad news came that Norway’s Bank has reduced the interest rate by 0.5 percentage points, and immediately the positive news came from several banks about a reduction in the borrowing rate. That is what we have been waiting for, and the signal effect in this is very important. Such a reduction in interest rates is fully possible within the current currency regime, as the Government is leading it. However, this reduction in interest rates could not be implemented with the Workers' Party's proposal for a closer link between the euro and the krona based on the assumption of an extended credit agreement with the European Central Bank, because this presupposes a fixed-rate policy, which would require that the krona be brought back fully to its original rental before an interest rate reduction could become effective. As far as Europol cooperation is concerned, the Prime Minister has already responded fully to this in the Grand Duchy yesterday. The Prime Minister there explained that the Government will present a big message on combating international crime and also discuss our relationship with Interpol and Europol. Europol is reserved for EU members, but it is of course interesting to examine more closely what forms of cooperation might be relevant between Norway and Europol. This will be done, and I also refer to the initiatives already taken in this connection, as the Prime Minister explained yesterday. In the context of the 1994 referendum results, the Government is running an active European policy, where it has shown that it is also able to achieve results. As with all agreements, there will be both benefits and disadvantages linked to the EEA Agreement. The point of concluding such agreements is, of course, that the benefits summarised turn out to be greater than the disadvantages. When one listens to parts of the opposition, one can almost get the impression that it's opposite. In my view, it is not difficult to identify the benefits of Norway’s relationship with the EU through the EEA Agreement. That we, for example, has a greater political space in the allocation policy, fiscal policy and district policy, is of great importance in ensuring housing and employment in different parts of our country. Of course, the framework conditions for agriculture and fisheries will be very central here. Of course, it's not hard to see any disadvantages either. And the most important thing is that the math goes up. And that makes it clear – to the advantage of Norway in this case. In the pre- referenda period, there was strong argument from the 'yes' parties that a 'no' to the EU would mean an increase in unemployment. The NHO even dared to quantify a no with 100,000 more unemployed in Norway. And social democrats – not just here in the country, but across the Nordic region – strongly insisted that the EU should become an important tool to reduce unemployment. So that's not how it went. Since the referendum, Norway has reduced unemployment to between 3 and 4 pst. The EU is still struggling with an average unemployment rate of about 10 pst. Europe is more than the EU. Norway is actively participating in European cooperation both within and outside the EU. It shows, among other things: our central role in the OSCE. As a small country in the world, experience has shown that we can still play an important role in international society as peacemakers and bridge builders. We have influence, and we're being listened to. In the wake of the British-French initiative on security and defence cooperation in Europe, it is important that Norway maintains transatlantic cooperation and ensures that the North regions receive the necessary attention and priority in the context of NATO. We need European interaction; we need strong European cooperation. That's what the government's going to do, it's going to go into the center of the game. We also need a strong and useful link with Europe – yes, we are already there, as a country in this pan-European community.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e337	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e340	There is no reason to doubt that the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party, who in many ways can be said to have contributed strongly to the EEA Agreement in its time, wants active cooperation with Europe. Whether we were yes- or no-people in 1994, and no matter what integration ambitions we might have or – I had almost said – not in the future, it is important that we not only have what Steensnæs calls active and close cooperation with Europe, but that we actually contribute to shaping an agenda and are in the forefront of the ongoing development process. It will not be enough for us to run gradually and constantly face the facts of execution, as the committee's chairman expressed it before today. It is also my objection to the Minister of Foreign Affairs' statement: a very straightforward but minimalistic review of our relationship with the EU and the necessary measures and adjustments that the Government believes Norway has to make in relation to the development process taking place in the EU. Is it not, however, that it does not matter what the development of the EU is in relation to Norwegian reality? Is it not true that it is also quite relevant what kind of development is taking place in the new candidate countries? And how does the Christian People's Party think that we should act – how active should we be to put the agenda ahead? For example, how are we going to do this? help secure substance in the northern dimension of the EU, so that we get the projects in North-West Russia we are serving, with which Norwegian foreign policy interests are served?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e347	First, I would like to say that I interpret this line from Marit Nybakk as a confirmation that the Workers' Party is now talking a lot more nuanced about the European policy that the Government is pursuing. The unintended attacks and the more or less dubious indications that the Government is neglecting important opportunities for Norway’s interests in relation to European policy, whether in the EU — perhaps in particular — or in other circumstances. I listened openly to Marit Nybakk's contributions in the hope of finding out what the concrete challenges were, and what she expected me to answer – and I must admit that I had some problems finding out at the heart of it. But when it comes to the concrete thing she finally mentioned, about the northern regions, I just want to answer that it's a very important question. Developments both in NATO and in the EU are such that one cannot expect the North to be as strong in a strategic context and in relation to economic development as other parts of Europe, not least in relation to the Baltic Sea, where a competitive focus has somehow arisen on attention. Therefore, it is important for Norway to have common interests both within NATO and within the EU, in order to maintain awareness and focus in the area that for Norway means a great deal. And here the government has already taken an initiative. Cooperation between the EU Commission and the Government has already been initiated in the form of a joint document aimed at setting up a strategy in relation to how the northern regions can be given the necessary attention also within the EU. In this context, I recall the important initiative of the Finnish Prime Minister, Lipponen, about the northern dimension, which I believe is very positive, and which Norway needs to place considerable emphasis on and stand behind.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e355	The most obvious observation in the Foreign Minister’s statement is that all conceptions of Norway as a foreign country are effectively buried – completely buried. If you are benevolent, you can actually say that it was much more marked by a pious desire for Norway as a domestic country. Now, of course, I am aware that the term ‘foreign’ is not the Christian People's Party's special form of vocabulary, but I am also aware of the fact that an intimate political relationship with those who have made this their motto. Now it is also banal in this Chamber to point out that a foreign minister speaks on behalf of the entire Government, but I would like to ask the following questions to Mr. Steensnæs: Apart from EU membership, with its real maritime rights, are there any limits to Norway's cooperation with the EU? Is there any limit at all like this, sir. Steensnæs sees it? Otherwise, this question is meant to be ointment in relation to Mr. Steensnæs" hurt feelings towards criticism of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e364	This debate is developing increasingly positively. Now we are also offered ointment from the yes movement, and we are of course grateful for that. And once again, it's confirmation that when we meet in such a debate, the shades come out, and one gets corrected the picture that I said in my post, I think has been very unsound, and where I may feel that the Right still needs to adjust. It will show up in the course of the debate if that happens. So ask Anders C. Sjaastad if there is any limit on what the Government on behalf of Norway can form out of cooperation relations with the EU. Yeah, we're going to go all the way out. That limit lies simply in the outcome of the referendum in November 1994, which limits the inclusion of all agreements and cooperation relations with the EU in Norway to be within the intergovernmental framework of international law. So it's not about more sovereignty repudiation, it's not about more supranationality, but it's about agreements that have the intergovernmental as a framework and as a premise. And it's proven that in the field by area it's possible to make good agreements, and we're being listened to. It is not that Norway has become uninteresting in a European context. Look at the Minister for Foreign Affairs' many travels and initiatives, listen to what the Prime Minister has reported on his talks with Jacques Santer and Gerhard Schröder, the President of the Council of the European Union. One will then see that Norway has an important role to play in European policy. And it's important that all of these possibilities are fully exploited to the limit I've just described.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e371	I don't know how to interpret the sound outside, but we get to take it in the best possible sense until it gets calmer. The next replicator is Kristin Halvorsen. [[«Sounden» was due to the demonstration of Nature and Youth by «shooting» outside]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e378	I don't know if it's possible to talk to all those sounds.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e383	You just have to go.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e386	The president says I'm just going to go, and I'm counting on those who are now with their backs because someone has tried to call attention to some drum solos and so on, they're getting away. I want to challenge Steensnæs and the Government on what the next EU fight is going to be about. So now we have a no-refining that is going to very much determine whether there are any arguments left in five years or ten years when some of the reversing guys on the yes side have not only stopped the first sentence, but they're also going to start resuming the yes and no-debate. It is then a question of whether, with a no-government, we have been able to make use of the freedom of action we have outside the EU in some essential areas. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has a high level of ambition in foreign policy. It appreciates SV very much, that's good. But I'm not sure if it makes sense for the Norwegian people to think it makes sense to be outside the EU next time. I think there are two major areas of a political nature: the environmental policy and the distribution policy of the general fiscal policy, which are going to be crucial. And that's where we had two argumentaries on the no-side. One was that outside the EU we could pursue a more radical environmental policy than could be achieved within the EU. What the government has proved in climate negotiations, etc. is that the government is less ambitious in environmental policy, more conservative and worse in environmental policy than the EU is. As far as economic policy is concerned, one of our arguments was that we should not enter into a Union that would legislate that we should conduct a right-wing policy. The Government has now for the third time entered into a budgetary settlement with the Right and the Advance Party and dropped the Waxenå declaration in the dungeon. [[The President clubs.]] As a result, private consumption is growing much more than public consumption. [[The President clubs.]] And we're going to stand pretty ribbed back if we don't change the course. What will Steensnæs do to prove that freedom of action is used outside in the areas that are important to people most?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e395	The President makes it clear that we have tried to take measures to mitigate the noise outside the house.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e401	And I'm doing the best I can to maintain it from the inside.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e406	The question was: what will the Government and the central parties do to meet a new EU match, and what will the new EU fight be about? One of the biggest problems I have in the EU debate is the kind of parole, a little simple-worded debate that I actually think Kristin Halvorsen is now slipping into, because Europe issues are much more nuanced and much more complex and require greater reflection and assessment than what I think the EU debate often gives room for. I have to admit that a number of these issues are about the benefits and disadvantages of the EU, and I still see examples of how the EEA Agreement limits what could be the best situation for Norway. At the same time, I am fortunately confirmed that the advantage of standing outside, as I explained in my post, is so much greater, so that summarized this gives us important advantages that we should hold on to. I would like the SV as a no-party to be able to stand together with us and defend the scandal that we are still being attacked for: that future cooperation with the EU – whatever the subject, which I am not sure of – should be about intergovernmental, international, not supranational agreements. Should I be careful to suggest one important and difficult area where I think we will have a challenge in a future EU debate, it might be about defence policy cooperation. For the time being, the British-French initiative is on paper and without special content, but we have to be prepared for this to strengthen and challenge us as a no-party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e415	Replication cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e418	So this time we get a European debate about the EU – and thank you for it, because every time we have discussed Europe over the last four and five years, there have been all the other issues than this one. I'm going to stick to the theme, but I still want to say that I think that the one important dimension of Norwegian European policy today, namely the OSCE Presidency, was shot by the Minister of Foreign Affairs in a very exemplary way. That's what I wanted to say before I get started on today's real issue, which is the issue of the EU. Now the statement was held on behalf of a so-called no-regier. It is remarkable to record the sober tone that is held to the very idea that has borne the opinion of many that Norway should be something other than Europe, with other values and other societal developments. This image now appears to be weaker and weaker, because the community of interests with the rest of Europe is emerging clearly, not least on foreign policy issues. There is also a community of values with the rest of Europe. It testifies to the fairly harmonious development of EEA legislation. It shows how the vast majority of questions find their practical solution based on the simple fact that we are doing a fair deal with the rest of Europe. Of course, there are disagreements and suggestions about different solutions. That's the way it is in all open democracies. But the idea of the different countries is now primarily found between the permes of yellow books in small editions, and perhaps also in the dreams of some who so sorely need party-building measures. So the debate now is not about membership issues – not the previous or any future debate – but simply about taking on new, real problems that should have their way. There is then no distinction between a yes-page and a no-page, but between what we can call EU fundamentalists and people who are willing to enter into agreements with the EU based on our current form of association; we might well call ourselves EEAs. So the question is, what are these real challenges that should be solved in? One is, of course, to further develop the EEA Agreement. And I agree with the committee leader's approach: that's not what we're going to spend time debating here, that's what we're going to deal with where it belongs. However, I would like to say that it must always be a goal for Norway to get better conditions for the Norwegian fishing industry. However, there are a few things that are linked to the EEA Agreement, which should perhaps be mentioned. I see that the foreign minister also needs to air the veto this time. I can clearly understand his needs in that area – perhaps not primarily his needs, but part of the government's need to vent this. But the most reasonable thing he says with the following: ‘The use of this right is a problem which is bad for a theoretical discussion.’ That's absolutely right. Nevertheless, one must have at the bottom that this is a right that we should use only in the outermost and most difficult cases, simply because the legal equality is the very objective of the EEA Agreement, and we should continue to govern it. If we were to reach the stages when it could even be about using the veto right, I think it would be wise to reconsider the issues that have been difficult, simply to test some of the judgements that have already been the basis of the case. I think that part of the current cases just call for it, because it may be that in the judgements that have been exercised, often of a professional nature, margins have been put in which is easy to have, until you come to the difficult decisions. I must also say that I am very doubtful about the direction you now obviously have in the field of energy, and I have a feeling that eight months after the EU reached its decision, which in the industry was given a broad and general acceptance – what it has done in the meantime, I am not quite sure – clearly has not yet been able to decide completely what it really wants. Here you have to be careful not to send any wrong signals, and the burden of proof lies on the government. I have a feeling, as indicated by a line change in the past, that the Government in the field of energy is not completely invading that an increasingly liberalised market is now being seen requiring completely new solutions, not least in upstream and downstream activities, and also having implications for ownership. Several public debates in January have shown that these are issues where the government is not quite up to date, to say it a little cautiously. I don't ignore the fact that the government here is about to fight old games and not take on new challenges, and that's not a good starting point. The interesting question of the Government – and I'm going to formulate myself a little carefully, as Steensnæs has so much hurt feelings in this area – is this: Is there a government that has both fundamentalists and EEA members in it, able and able to fully innovate new challenges that might come? I will without delay give praise to the Government that the assignments it has felt should be carried out, for example. the negotiations on the EEA and Schengen have been very thorough. But is the government nevertheless with its attitudes – if it is a so-called no-regiering, then, what had to be put into it – able to think strategically? And if it isn't, is the problem: is the Storting able to fill that role completely? It's the government that runs our entire foreign apparatus, has contacts, and that's why the initiating body is. And I think we have to say that it is only through an intimate knowledge of the European debate and of the decision-makers that we are able to see in time the necessary steps that need to be taken and that we have the apparatus that enables us to take the necessary steps. But no matter how this happens, I think it's important to underline the role of the Storting as an initiator in this area. It makes me underline the importance of international party cooperation. I believe these are both important listening posts and important contact points for European decision-makers. The problem, of course, is that it puts the Workers' Party and the Right in a different situation than most other parties, but I think it is important that everyone is looking for these kinds of contacts, and that was the background for the Right speaking in favour of the Christian People's Party being linked to our European organisation EPP. I was very concerned about that issue, I have tried to influence in the East and West around this issue, and I must say I am glad that the Foreign Minister took it as offensively as he did in the explanation he gave. With regard to the areas where it is now important to take care of, speakers from the Right will come back to them. For the sake of completeness, I would just like to mention the issue relating to the euro, which we have also been through in the past in Stortinget. For the sake of completeness in passing, I would also like to mention police cooperation and, at the same time, stress that I believe that it is one of the important areas where it is important not only to define what the EU is doing but also to express a political will to connect as closely as possible. Here I think the Prime Minister left something to be desired in the spontaneous questioning session yesterday. I think this is an important area in which Norway must express its will, because international crime is one of the major challenges. Then we have security and foreign policy, where I can probably share that belief that it's not good to say if all that Tony Blair does has the substance that many people think it has. But that this is a long-standing development, a desire for Europeans to take more responsibility, and that this is also shared by the Americans, that is quite clear. And then I would like to remind you of the point that Norway, after political pressure from the Right, was simply not going to disconnect itself from these kinds of processes. That's why it's important to be cut in this area. Here I see that even the Minister of Defence has been apprehensive about this proposal. That's a good sign. It is important to be close to this issue. But then back to the energy cooperation. In that area, practically nothing was said by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and there was very little notice in relation to the energy message coming to spring. I hope the government in the energy message takes this issue completely inward, for so far it has not proved to be near to having the will to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e450	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e453	I fully agree with Mr Petersen, and also Mr Blankenborg, that when the objectives of the European Union become reality, the practical policy, as we see from today's government, is also changing. Petersen also stated that the EEA Agreement, which is our formal contact with the EU, is important to ensure, and that there are always limits to how far this trap can be stretched, and that there are also limits to how many directives can be suggested to race with the suspensions in the direction of veto. But in one area Petersen said that he agreed to a strengthening, namely in the case of Protocol 9 on Fish, and I expect the Prime Minister to make concrete the positive signals he got about this. There was one area the prime minister did not deal with Santer, and that was Europol. Europol is now in a phase in which they will be able to establish the system itself on 1 April. The Prime Minister says he should investigate, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs said so far in his presentation. The U.S. is now asking for an arrangement. This is not about becoming a member, but it is about getting an intergovernmental relationship, that is, a concrete arrangement. I therefore ask that the Right should clarify that the meaning of the Labour Party is the same as that of Europol.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e460	I think it's almost a bit sad to Steensnæs to give this confirmation, because he was so concerned that the government was in the driver's seat in all the contexts of this matter, but I must admit that I actually think Grete Knudsen has a point in this area. I think that Europol cooperation must be one of the important things that the Government is going to do, and then with more political will than what was in the Foreign Minister's presentation, what emerged after the meetings in Brussels, and after what the Prime Minister said yesterday. Now, if we're going to write a little bit on the note we're going to send with the government out in Europe, I think I can confirm that both Grete Knudsen and I have written on it, so I guess that's what it says on that list.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e465	Jan Petersen has earlier today characterised the Workers' Party's so-called strategy note as a «list» that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance would bring to Brussels and Bonn. I must then remember that both the visit and the program for this visit had been fixed a long time in advance, and not least the fact that the Prime Minister had invited the opposition to make recordings in connection with these meetings. In the case of memo pads and shopping notes, it is important that they are also legible, and not least that those who write such patches know what they want. During the budget work last autumn, we received a proposal that was adopted in Stortinget, which was backed by the Labour Party and the Right, where one called for a strategic dialogue where, among other things, it was. I stress that in this context, one can also examine the possibilities for a closer link between the Norwegian krona and the euro. During the budgetary work and the budget debate last autumn, it was impossible to clarify what was in this «frontier» proposal promoted and adopted in the Stortinget. It was totally impossible. Now the Workers' Party has come on the track and told what was in this frontier-breaking concept of linking the crown closer to the euro. Well, this boiled down to the question of extending an already existing credit agreement! But the right has not specified what was in the Right engagement in this matter, and that commitment was strong, I would say. Now I want to give Jan Petersen the opportunity to tell us: Is it so that the Right believes the same thing as the Workers' Party, that this boils down to a question of extending an already existing credit agreement, or is it so that the Right continues to fantasize about a support purchase agreement that involves a return to the fixed-price policy that Norway has left the longest?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e487	This I think was a bit of a funny line. It is a fact that the Storting has taken the decision it has made. The Prime Minister has accepted the mission that was in it. We have had conversations, but there was no Jacobsen, and it comes from that he is not prime minister! So now Bondevik has been in Brussels, and we've only seen through the newspapers what he's ended up with. What it must be, I assume he will explain the matter in more detail during this meeting. What was one of the points, if you remember the mission itself, was that now it was about identifying the options available, and it was about knowing what opportunities are available to Norway. These are the options that are the first point of the work to be done, and that is what the Prime Minister is going to report back. In terms of the thoughts we've had about it, they're going about in the same direction as the Workers' Party. But I'd like to say that it's in the policy phase you're now going into, not least the government is going to formulate what it wants. The EU has said that they are open to talk about it, but what is the will of the Norwegian Government? My question is now simply deleted when we have now defined a problem area: What is the Government's will in this area? I do not conceal that it must be so in this and in other European issues, that the Government is making proposals on how to do so, defining its own policy. As I said, we have given the Prime Minister advice on which ways he can go, but we are open that there will also be other opportunities. We will listen to that when the Prime Minister makes his statement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e498	A right-wing slogan about the most important thing first, I mean to remember from a campaign. When you listen to Jan Petersen's posts, most of it's important. It was not a single question relating to our relationship with Europe that was not important to address, everything was important. Maybe that's right, but if you're going to prioritize, it might be interesting to know what Jan Petersen actually thinks is the most important thing. If you listen to Jan Petersen's posts, he'll take the wave for the EU, no matter what the EU has to do. It would have been interesting to hear whether there is a single point in EU policy that Jan Petersen does not want to be serbility to, where he actually wants to have a position and try to change the EU to what is positive. So here is the most important thing, here we're going to go down to the European Union and take the wave and put ourselves firmly under what the European Union has to join in its wisdom. It could have been interesting about Mr. Petersen could elaborate what's actually the most important thing here. So a question where there is a significant difference between Norwegian and EU policies, which it might also be interesting to hear, Mr. Petersen's vision. In Norway, we have a central bank that is not independent of the political authorities. It's different from the system you have in the EU. In the EU, there is a central bank that is not to take political decisions, and there is also another type of currency target, namely inflation, which we do not have in Norway. If we are going into the EU, it will necessarily lead to a change in Norwegian monetary policy. But the Right does not have an inflation target on the various occasions here in the United Kingdom when one has discussed monetary policy, wished or raised for a freed-up central bank or, for that matter, for that matter. Does that mean that Jan Petersen really believes that we are going to translate into the European Central Bank's monetary policy objectives, where low inflation is the only objective, where there are no other important considerations to take, for example: low unemployment — unemployment is substantially lower in Norway than in the EU. At my discretion, it must be the most important thing. If you want to be part of a partnership, you put yourself firmly under a central bank. But if you want everything that's important and you can say that there's a disagreement, it might be a tip to Petersen that the central bank model we've chosen in Norway is important and better than the EU's.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e509	I took note of an important premise for the whole question – which I felt in many ways was also under Kristin Halvorsen’s line to Steensnæs after his posts – and that was the phrase ‘if you’re going into the EU’. It's an interesting debate, it's certain, and everyone knows what I wanted, and I still want to, but the point is that in today's debate that's not what's on the agenda. I think we have to keep our tongue right in our mouths. There are no questions now about reviving the 1994 debate or looking at a future future membership debate. What is the challenge in this debate is to say: Ålreit, what are Norway’s challenges and unresolved problems in relation to the EU, and how do we deal with those kinds of questions? I am aware that there are some who, for purely party-building reasons, now want to get to a sort of membership debate before the next elections, hoping to make people think that's what this is about. But that's not it. They are more – among others. for the party of Djupedal – difficult issues. What do we do with these concrete challenges, based on today's connectivity? And then he says, "What do I want to give the highest priority to the things I mentioned?" I have to say that the agenda I drew consisted of five areas that I think are all important, and I see no need to prioritise these five areas in relation to each other. Further development of EU cooperation is an extremely important task, defence and foreign policy, the Europol issue, the question of examining the possibility of closer links with the euro, and not least: what challenges does this pose for Energy Norway? What action are we taking in Europe, and what action are we not least taking at home in Norwegian energy policy? It's today's agenda, and the attempt at party-building that I understand Djupedal needs, yes, he gets to take in other contexts. That's not what this is about.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e520	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e523	Although Norway's relationship with the EU is today's main theme, it is difficult to discuss the Government's Europe policy without initially mentioning the current and dramatic challenges Norway is facing as leader of the OSCE. In its statement on the cooperation of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe on 19 November last year, the OSCE Minister for Foreign Affairs underlined the role of bridge to other institutions, such as the UN, NATO and the EU. According to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the most important task for Norway to take over the presidency of the OSCE would be to exercise leadership. In the scarcely month since Norway took over the OSCE presidency, Norway and foreign policy have met challenges that have really required leadership. The situation in Kosovo is critical, and the danger of the conflict developing into a regular state of war in the former Yugoslavia is imminent. Both through the current crisis management and the initiative for negotiations between the opposing parties, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has held a leadership that points out the only dangerous way out of the hopeless and seemingly stuck situation in Kosovo, namely a negotiated solution. I think it is important that this be said, so that it is not just the assessment of this conflict by the Progress Party that will be remembered from this debate. The Minister of Foreign Affairs’ statement on Norway’s relationship with the EU clarifies the central government’s position on the most controversial and combustible political issues in the 1990s. Among other things, the presentation beats establish the following: The result of the 1994 referendum commits and shall be respected. The people’s no to EU membership has not led Norway into an international isolation. The government will exploit the political and economic freedom of the people's no give Norway. The right of veto in the EEA has been negotiated in order to be used, and the Government has decided — if necessary — to use this right, including: in areas relating to health, safety and the environment. The Norwegian monetary policy is firm, and any aid purchase agreement with the EU will run counter to it. Norway’s rights as an ally and as an associated member of the WEU, the Western European Union, must be maintained in any future solutions that change the relationship between the EU, the WEU and NATO. The Government has launched a review of the EEA Agreement and will present a notification to the Norwegian Council of Europe policy in 2000. In other words, the government states that the central government will pursue an active European policy on the basis of intergovernmental cooperation allowing Norway to take advantage of its political and economic autonomy. Norway is therefore not isolated in the international community – across the board. Norway has freedom of action in the field of foreign policy. Yes, Norway has in some contexts greater political leeway than EU countries, which often require a long time for coordination. When Terje Rød-Larsen claimed the same in 1997, he received packaging from the leader of the European movement. Red-Larsen has, among others: in the Signs of Time, expressed that it would have been difficult for Norway to play a key role in the Middle East if Norway were a member of the EU. ‘Norway is in a favourable position between the EU and the United States’, said Terje Rød-Larsen. This naturally gives a space for foreign policy action that is important to exploit. EU defence and security policy processes are facing new and demanding challenges in Norway. In its efforts to develop a clearer European security and defence identity, it has inter alia: a British-French initiative to signal a changed British position on the Western Union. If the WEU were to be deployed under the EU in order to strengthen the EU’s role in defence and security policy, it would create a whole new situation for Norway in terms of our overall security and our involvement in crisis management. Uncertainty is still linked to the outcome of the ongoing defence and security policy process. These issues must be central to the ongoing dialogue between Norway and the EU. We must expect the EU to recognise Norway’s interests in this area and that the EU is prepared to discuss these issues with Norway. Should the relationship between the EU, the Western Union and NATO change, the Government must assume that Norway’s rights as an ally and as an associated member of the VEU will continue. The Norwegian Europe debate has been closely linked in the last year to the launch of the euro by EU countries, a very wide-ranging and bold economic and political project that will have a significant impact on the Norwegian economy, and which Norway obviously has to deal with in an active way. The need for a more active European policy in the field of monetary policy has been the review of the opposition's criticism of the Government. After the visit of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance to Brussels and Bonn, this matter may seem to have been brought to a standstill, and today there seems to be a relatively broad political agreement that a support purchase agreement with the EU is out of date and that our monetary policy should remain firm. Yesterday's interest rate decline reinforces, in my opinion, such a strategy. Norway should, of course, have an ongoing dialogue with the EU also in the field of monetary policy. But we are wise to realize that a close link to the euro would mean that we chose some of our financial freedom. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs made clear in his statement, the EU is committed to stronger coordination in terms of both financial policy, taxation, structural policy and wage formation. In the opinion of the Centre Party, it would not be in Norway’s interest to conclude agreements with the EU that weaken our freedom of action in areas that are important, among other things. for welfare, employment and resource management. In fact, strong coordination of economic policies in a large and heterogeneous geographical area will have to lead to tensions between individual countries and the EU system, including the European Central Bank, which will act independently of political authorities. Therefore, it is also too early to say what consequences it will have for EU cooperation when individual countries, under varying economic conditions, lose the opportunity to use interest rates and exchange rates as instruments of national policy. Only the future can respond to how the EU will bring about these challenges and pressures over time. The "gliding flu" of the Workers' Party in the euro-area case may otherwise be a closer study worth studying. During the interest rate debate last autumn, a few impressions could be that Thorbjørn Jagland almost required a Norwegian connection to the euro. After protests from central no-people in the party, Jagland had to mute the tone. During budgetary work, the Labour Party then launched a proposal that also reflected the continuing upward trend of EU critics in the Workers' Party. The ‘quiet’ grip here was that, in a so-called strategic dialogue with the EU, ‘the possibility of linking the Norwegian krona closer to the euro could be examined’. When the Workers’ Party was then asked to clarify what this ‘powerful’ intervention meant, it all boiled down to a wish for an extension of an already existing credit agreement with the EU. Following the exit of the euro balloon, the Labour Party has focused on Norway’s relationship with the European police cooperation Europol. Although only EU members can become parties to the Europol Convention, different forms of contact and cooperation with third countries are open. Of course, Norway should also be in good contact with Europol, as informed by the Prime Minister yesterday. This contact is already established. But this is not an urgent matter today. Firstly, several unresolved questions remain regarding the design of Europol. Secondly, in the first instance, the EU will give priority to candidate countries in the conclusion of cooperation agreements. Of course, a no to membership of a supranational European Union does not mean a no to international cooperation on an intergovernmental basis. Therefore, the central government will continue active cooperation Norway has established with both the EU and other countries. The Foreign Minister’s statement shows that the Government is prepared to exploit both the freedom of action and the opportunities offered by today’s cooperation situation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e577	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e581	First two words about the Middle East. The EU has a striking need to streamline its Middle East policy. They are leading their own Middle East policy a long way – that is one of the problems. My experience also in the interim period until the referendum was that there was much to learn from, and I did not experience anything at these meetings as an attempt to limit Norway's ability to manoeuvre in the Middle East. On the contrary, you thought you had a lot to learn. I noted with interest what the Central Party parliamentary leader said about defence policy cooperation as it could develop in a European framework. He used about the same wording as the Minister for Foreign Affairs, namely that he believes that Norway’s rights as an ally and as an associated member of the VEU must be maintained in any future solutions that change the relationship between the EU, the WEU and NATO. Of course, this is important, as much more as Norway, among others. was set up in 1997 to ensure, in principle, that associated members of the Western Union will be fully members in situations where the Western Union makes use of NATO resources, in other words have full rights. Does this mean that the Central Party parliamentary leader is also prepared to discuss with the EU the introduction of a parallel arrangement for the associated membership of the Western Union if this organisation were to become part of the EU as a whole?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e588	In the case of Bjørn Tore Godal's initial comments on the Middle East, I am a little uncertain about who was addressing. One is left with the impression that this was actually an indirect criticism of Terje Rød-Larsen, because it was in that context that I mentioned the Middle East. If it was meant to be, at least one could say that there was a criticism that was quite well wrapped. With regard to the cooperation in defence and security policy and the developments we are now seeing in the EU, I have shown what should be the position of the Norwegian Government in this respect, namely that Norway should retain its rights, both that which is linked to our role as an ally and as an associated member of the Western Union. What comes out of this process, we don't know yet, we don't know what will be the EU's position. It's only when we know it better that we can go into a discussion about choosing cooperation models. I noticed, however, that the Foreign Minister’s statement did not simply make clear that Norway had to be willing to find solutions if one of the three current models suggested in the presentation were to become a reality. But I also noticed that the Minister for Foreign Affairs felt that at first this had to be resolved within the framework of the already existing system we have in the field of foreign policy and security policy consultations. I do not think it is time today to start pointing to specific solutions and specific cooperation models, including associated solutions, until we know what is going to happen in the EU model – and possibly new model – in the field of defence and security policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e599	I noticed that the representative Jakobsen said in his post that the government would have a careful review of the EEA Agreement, and with the Central Party of the Government it might be interesting. The EEA Agreement has been essential for the positive development of Norwegian fish exports to the EU. When the Commission, based on WTO legislation, threatened to impose significant criminal duties on Norwegian salmon in 1996, this led to our obtaining the salmon agreement, which means avoiding criminal duties. Although some restrictions were imposed, the outcome would probably be much worse without the EEA Agreement. This is an example of the fact that the EEA Agreement has been crucial for one of our main industries. In addition, we benefit from participation in the various EU cooperation programmes, including: in health, drug control, media, culture, information technology and telecommunications. In particular, we have been able to benefit from research and development cooperation. We have also been a net recipient of contributions from various EU research and development programmes. My question to Jacobsen is: Does the Central Party believe that this participation is valuable? And how does the Central Party actually align itself with the EEA Agreement in 1999?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e610	It is quite correct, as Sonja Sjøli initially pointed out, that the Government has announced a review of the EEA Agreement – a wish actually promoted by the Central Party during the previous enlargement period. There is also reason to note that this review of the EEA Agreement should take place, inter alia. by means of ‘external expertise’, to refer to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In the case of the EEA Agreement, the Centre Party has never hidden the fact that the Centre Party has accepted that the central government as the basis for its relationship with the EU will be based on the EEA Agreement, which is supported by a large majority in the EEA. As early as 1992 the leader of the Centre party said clearly that the EEA Agreement should not prevent the Central Party from taking on government responsibilities. The centre party sees clear benefits from parts of the EEA Agreement, and Sonja Sjøli mentioned some of them. When the Central Party has been critical of the EEA Agreement, it is related to our feeling that the political price has been too high. I have also recorded that in many contexts, the Right has pointed out a weakness in the EEA system, which implies that Norway must accept EU directives as having little influence over them. However, the Central Party believes that this is too high a political price for the benefits that the EEA Agreement also entails. When we are in position and little or nothing can be done with the political side of the matter, it would of course be lacking if we were not to take advantage of the benefits of the EEA Agreement. The statement to the Minister for Foreign Affairs also contains a clear signal from the Government, including the Central Party, that the possibilities contained in the EEA Agreement should of course be exploited for the benefit of Norwegian interests.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e621	There has been a dramatic change in the whole content of the EU debate after we got a no-regier rather than a yes-regiering. Now it's like two hours after any EU debate had to break away – let me take as an example when the Norwegian Lawyers' Association entered into the content of the Schengen Agreement, very important and important issues – the debate is no longer about this, but about the internal life of the Central Party, and some central party breakdown representative had thought that now the Central Party had to get out of the Government. In this way, it was the end of Schengen and more focus on the Central Party to the extent of interesting, but perhaps not so far-overlooking, exciting internal life. In the SV's view, we have a common responsibility on the no-side to get the EU debate into the path where we want to use the freedom of action outside the EU to do something other than dill in the heels of the EU. That's what SV wants. SV does not want a new yes-no-debate. We are pleased with the result of the referendum. But when we hear the Central Party discussing it seems that the Central Party wants a new yes-no debate and not a debate on how to use the freedom of action outside the EU. This is why the challenge goes to Jacobsen: Why can't the Government put up a strategy that systematically challenges the majority of the yess in the Biggest, for example. with regard to environmental policy, to use the freedom of action we have outside the EU? Then I don't mean how we, when the blows are lost, can put down a veto. In that case, I believe that different countries, in the best sense of the word, or in the best sense of the word, how we can actually do something else, for example. in the case of climate issues, in the case of food policy, in order to be on the front line and not to be on the sidelines. The same applies to the distribution policy and the fight against unemployment. There we are better off than most other countries. In this area, however, Norway is now one of the few countries with a right-wing party with one hand on the steering wheel of economic policy. How will the Central Party use the freedom of action outside the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e628	With regard to the Schengen issue, it is a reality – and we can regret it, but it is a reality – that the Stortinget took a decision as early as 1997 on the substance of the Schengen Agreement. The government has taken on the job of negotiating an institutional and administrative framework around this agreement, as there have been changes concerning the party to the agreement meeting in Norway in this cooperation. Then to the SV and the EU debate. I have to say that the SV's main contribution to a new EU debate and a new EU policy is to want the centre government to step back and get a new Jagland government. There is no party SV's most ambitious goal in the EU debate – to get a far-reaching EU-servil worker party government instead of the central government we have today. I would say in the light of the statement made, that this government has marked a different European policy in relation to our relationship with the European Union. I would say that the statement made by the Minister of Foreign Affairs could not be held by any government other than a central government. I spent quite a lot of my time and my contribution to clarify the important points that this government has highlighted, both that one should establish what is the framework of Norwegian EU policy: that respect for the outcome of the referendum, that the veto law of the EEA Agreement has been negotiated because it is to be used, and that the Government has gone a long way in sketching some EU directives that are contrary to Norwegian interests, and that the Government therefore believes that Norwegian law should continue to apply. [[The President clubs.]] So I have to say that I really think the EU strategy that the central government is pursuing should be far superior to the SV's return to the Workers' Party that SV has presented as its main goal this autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e635	The President will remember that a line should not be longer than two minutes, and one must try to stay within that time frame. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e640	I have characterised the foreign minister's presentation as a diplomatic masterpiece. There was then a certain debate about whether it was positive or negative, but since the word diplomatically can hardly be part of the protests – at least it is not prohibited to use it on the floor of the Stortinge – this must be a positive characteristic. This is a statement on European policy and not just on the EU, and then I have to start with Kosovo. It is not just that there is a war going on in Europe and there is a danger of another war in Europe, but it is the handling of such crises that determine what kind of future EU, NATO and OSCE we are going to have. I agree with the praise given to the Norwegian Presidency of the OSCE so far, but I would also like to give a warning. We have to learn from the experiences of Bosnia. If we take a single event in Bosnia, namely the mass murder in Srebrenica where 7,000 men, women and children were murdered in three days, there can be no doubt in retrospect that this could have been avoided by a powerful action on the part of the international community. But because you were equal or at least close to equalizing the parties in Bosnia, because you didn't dare to come up with a credible threat of power use and because you didn't understand what kind of forces you have to do when it was Milosevic, Mladic, etc., you sat down and saw that the greatest massacre since Auschwitz and Treblinka took place on European soil. We must learn from this and avoid anything similar happening in Kosovo. I am concerned when forces in the OSCE clearly believed that the OSCE could move on to a policy in which Milosevic was to cast Walker out of Kosovo, but nevertheless it was intended to continue to stand in Kosovo afterwards. Only by credible political and military pressure against Milosevic will the crisis in Kosovo be resolved. Of course, it's easy to say, it's easy to be a follow-up clock and it's easy to discuss this from some kind of sideline in the Stortinget, but I stand firm that only such pressure in the Bonn makes it possible to solve the crisis, and then the OSCE, NATO and the United Nations will be able to play together. Then I would also like to add since this is a European statement, that we must never forget that Norway's perhaps all the most important strategic main interest in Europe is Russia, and that weaving Russia into all the European institutions is crucial for Norway. Without a stable Russia there will be no stability in Europe overall. It is, of course, the big dilemma also with regard to the handling of Kosovo, that we must maintain a good relationship with Russia, bring them in, as it is now happening in the process, while maintaining a clear threat to Milosevic. Now we are in the situation that we can go into a slightly more analytical debate with regard to the European Union. I am pleased that both the Labour Party and the Right speakers in this debate have put themselves on a line that has been slightly different from what we have seen in the last few months. In the last few months, the rehab has seemed extreme compared to 1994, so to speak, popping out of the whole body, and you haven't been able to think about anything else. Today, it has been possible to be a little more nuanced and conduct the balanced debate on the EU we can now have. It must now be possible to have a few years in Norway where we do not hear, as we heard in 1994, statements such as:: If I then stand on my head, I can't see a single argument for my opponents' views. Everyone understands that there are arguments both for and against EU membership and that what is now the task is to assess cold, cynical and soberly how Norway should deal with the situation that the majority of our people said no to EU membership. We will be outside the EU in the foreseeable future, but we must have a close relationship with the European Union in many areas, while taking advantage of the freedom of action outside. Let me give you some examples of this. Henry Kissinger once asked Poland about when Europe wanted a telephone number. What is obvious to everyone is that coordination of foreign and security policy is one of the most difficult. The EU has come much shorter there than in terms of the coordination of the economy and many other areas. The management of the crisis in Iraq shows how far you have left: the United Kingdom as an obedient dog for U.S. policy, Italy and Germany in an intermediate position — critical but with understanding of the United States — and France as a clear opponent of U.S. policy in Iraq. The extent to which a common policy in the field of foreign policy is left in the EU cannot be illustrated better. On the other hand, it is essential that the EU coordinate its policies in important areas. The EU's explosive attitude towards the Balkans in the first phase of the Balkans war early in the 1990s contributed to more war and not less. In the event that the EU developed closer foreign policy cooperation, there can be no doubt that Norway must be in a close alliance with this in the form of association or in any way. Nobody can say exactly what form, we can't say exactly what we want, and we can't say what is possible from the European Union. However, Norway needs to work closely with the EU if the EU is to develop closer foreign policy cooperation, no one can disagree. This is not primarily about the Western Union. The Western Union is not essential. It is essential that the EU develop close foreign policy cooperation. In my opinion, it should be equally obvious that Norway has an interest in using the freedom of action that we have in being outside the EU in an offensive way. Norway can be a humanitarian act. We have a very special opportunity to play the role of broker in many international conflicts, because we do not have economic and strategic interests there, because we are outside the EU, because we have a close relationship with the United States. It should be possible for EU citizens in this room to admit that this is actually one of the benefits of being outside the EU, just as the Government has now seen on a number of points the benefits of close links with the EU. It's e.g. not doubt that it would be difficult for Norway to operate our Middle East diplomacy as an EU Member, and that even the reason why we have the role of chairman of the donor country group for the Palestinian territories is simply that we are not in the EU. It is this kind of nuanced debate that we should be able to have on most areas of the EU in the future. The same applies to the euro. It is obvious that if we get a single currency in Europe, it will have great psychological significance. There can be no doubt about it. If the North meets the same currency from the Danish boat to the Canary Islands, there will be a new psychological situation. Nor can there be any doubt that if the euro is successful, it will be very positive for Europe, and that we on the Norwegian side do not have the least interest in the failure of this gigantic experiment. If that fails, it will mean an economic disaster for Europe, which will, of course, bring Norway with it, and which will be difficult for us. But from there to the unimaginable sloping certainty that this is actually going to succeed as we've seen in the last month, is a long jump. What we have seen has been successful has been the technical implementation of the first phase of a single currency. As far as data problems related to it are concerned, it has been successful. But we need to have some time to assess whether the euro contributes to reducing unemployment in Europe or the opposite. It is these things that will determine people in Europe's future position on the euro. There are many major difficulties that remain. There is no common labour market in Europe. How, then, is it to deal with a structural crisis in an area in Europe? Secondly, it is clear that a single currency for the whole of Western Europe, possibly for the whole of Europe, will increasingly require a common financial policy and a common economic policy on the part of the European Union. You're a good deal from it, and of course, it's got a lot of problems. In other words, in relation to the euro, we have some acute problems to solve with regard to the Norwegian krona, but above all, we have the opportunity to wait and see how successful the euro project will be before we trap a sloping judge. Some of the same applies to the enlargement of the EU. It is also in Norwegian interest. That's a big deal. The government says it. Even the Center Party has made it clear every now and then. But neither is it something that goes on the rails and is a simple process. The enlargement of the EU will take longer than most people think. The demonstrations we are now seeing among Polish farmers illustrate to the full the difficulties you want to face. But also there we have the opportunity to now cold and calmly evaluate that process and be involved and contribute to it, as we do, for example. is about Eivinn Berg being the advisor to Slovenia, or we can contribute financially to getting this done. Finally, Kristin Halvorsen has repeatedly challenged the Government to use the freedom of action we have outside the EU. It is our strongest charge against the current government. Why are we not using the freedom of action in the field of environmental policy, as the Government is trying to do in the field of foreign policy? Why are we not a driver in the Kyoto process? Why are we not offensive to the EU in terms of the many negative environmental directives in the EU? Why are we sitting on the sidelines in these areas rather than taking advantage of the nei-side freedom of action so keenly wanted in 1994?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e668	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e671	It is always enriching to listen to Erik Solheim, both because he is analytical and visionary, and the ability to go into difficult issues and because he is also willing to move borders in a constructive way. He praised both the Right and the Workers' Party here today to be nuanced in his posts. Even I experience it so that the person who in the debate has tried so far in the lines to recapture some of the battle cases and the polarization from 1994 is, in fact, SV's Kristin Halvorsen. At the same time, however, the analysis must be followed up on how to deal with situations in concrete terms. And it is a reality, although it is slow, that with everything we see in front of us, closer foreign and security policy cooperation within the European Union will also affect us when we read those cards. At the same time, we now see that Chancellor Schröder will add to a more offensive, comprehensive policy vis-à-vis Russia, where Russia also welcomes the cooperation that is now taking place within the EU. The question then arises: how will Erik Solheim and SV be involved in the cooperation we are now seeing develop, which will affect Norway, Russia, the North and all of this, in addition to analysing the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e680	What I see as Kristin Halvorsen has sent as a challenge to the Government, and as I join one hundred percent, is that the three central parties and SV in 1994 were united to argue that the freedom of action we have outside the EU is very, very important and very valuable to Norway, and it is to be used for something. So we get a government that doesn't use it for anything when it comes to the environment. I'm not saying it's not used for anything in foreign policy, but when it comes to the environment, it's not used at all. Our challenge to the Government is to use that freedom of action as a pressure group towards the EU in terms of the many negative environmental directives in the EU. Use that freedom of action in the Kyoto process. Now Norway is behind the EU in the Kyoto process, not at the front. Secondly – and here I am absolutely sure that Grete Knudsen agrees – it is a crossroads of thought that we said no to the EU in 1994 for less right-wing policy, and so we have ended up Norway is now the only country in all of Western Europe where the outer right has a decisive influence on policy. And we're probably about the only country in Western Europe, except in Spain, where the traditional Right has a significant influence on politics. In other words, all the centre parties, SV and the EU opposition of the Labour Party said no to the EU for less right-wing policy in Norway, and Norway has ended up as the country in Europe where there is the least social democracy and the most right-wing policy. It must be a cross of thought. So to the issue of EU foreign cooperation: SV is too fully involved in what Grete Knudsen is talking about, for example. Barent cooperation, which is a practical way of dealing with relations between Russia, the EU and Norway. We're excited about this. I was two days ago at a conference in Washington that Bellona organized, where Russian and American experts, together with a few Norwegian politicians and others, put together to try to help solve environmental problems in the northern regions. It is the kind of practical cooperation that we should have, and of which we should have more, and which no EU opponent should have the least opposition to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e690	I had the impression that Solheim's representative fully agrees with the OSCE's objective, namely to establish a political agreement in Kosovo that means that Kosovo does not have its independence. What I want to ask him is, is: is there at all any limit to how much damage the Serbian army can do in this country? How extensive a genocide could be before Solheim's representative says it's really unreasonable and immoral that 90 pst. And above that of the Albanian population being liberated from those who harm them they claim to be countrymen? My other question is, what kind of middle solution could Solheim's representative think? Should it be for Kosovo to be subject to the Yugoslav army, should it be for Kosovo to be subject to the Yugoslav tax authority and foreign policy? And does he really think that such a construction will be viable on the basis of the mood that is now created between these population groups? He has just been down there and should well have a self-experienced feeling of this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e697	I always hesitate to go into a foreign policy debate with the Progress Party. It's because I don't see the party as being serious about foreign policy. I make an exception for Fridtjof Frank Gundersen as a person, but in the case of the Progress Party as a party, it is only out to score domestic political points in Norway when discussing foreign policy. You're never really interested in foreign policy, but you'll see if there are any votes south or north of the Sinsen Cross to win on this, and it's a relationship with foreign policy that I despise so intensely and deeply that I have difficulties going into a debate with the Progress Party. But I don't doubt the personal commitment of Fridtjof Frank Gundersen to Kosovo. That's why I'm going to try to answer that question as best I can. I believe that a free and independent Kosovo can come as a result of war. It may come as a result of the logic of the situation, namely that Milosevic deprived the Kosovar Albanians of self-government, was held for several years with non-violence struggle, the population is of course radicalized, and one ends up with the overwhelming majority of Kosovar Albanians accepting nothing but a completely separate state. But it's actually something a little bit different than whether the world community should dictate this solution. Because if we are to find a solution today as a result of something other than war in Kosovo, it will most likely be a Dayton-like model where the world community dictates a solution. And the only possible solution the world community can dictate is a solution that has the mark of a compromise. It will be a solution that is moving towards Kosovo being given a very wide degree of autonomy within a Yugoslav Federation, probably in the direction of what Montenegro has today, perhaps even more extensive. Whether time has passed and this is no longer possible because every Albanian wants an independent state, it is difficult to decide. Maybe it's come this far. But at least this is the only possible solution that the world community can put power behind and dictate and implement in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e704	Erik Solheim pointed out that this is also a European debate and, in this context, raised the situation in Kosovo. I perceived it as a heart attack that he could not participate in any other way than on the sideline of the Stortinget. He referred correctly to the opportunities we have within the OSCE, the United Nations and NATO, but he managed completely to avoid mentioning the name of the organisation that is responsible for the situation in Europe, namely the EU. Could I have understood that Erik Solheim would have liked to have seen that we had not just been on the sideline in that context as well? Furthermore, Erik Solheim – as Grete Knudsen also said – praised the Right and Workers' Party for having entered into an analytical debate. I also agree with Grete Knudsen that Erik Solheim is good at getting into difficult issues. I have a little harder to see that he is particularly good at getting out of the issues he has been dealing with, but that may be another matter. He refers to the fact that so far it has been the reversibility that has prevailed on the yes-page, and that is a completely incorrect manufacture. It was the yes side that said they would respect the outcome of the referendum no matter how it happened, and we're on it. It was an alliance he himself belonged to who had the opinion that a yes would mean no and a no would also mean no. That is why I would refer to what Erik Solheim said already in 1994, that he would consider the situation differently if there was a large expansion to the east. I would like to ask concretely: does Erik Solheim agree on the desirability of EU enlargement with Eastern European countries, and could he perhaps suggest something about when he thinks Norway could also have the pleasure of entering into such a process?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e711	When I came with the heartache that we're all a little on the sideline in relation to Kosovo, it had nothing to do with not being a member of the European Union. As far as I can register, the EU has no significant role whatsoever in Kosovo. There are three institutions that play the crucial role: it's the OSCE, it's NATO, and it's the UN Security Council. Secondly, significant decisions are taken in the US State Department, and it is taken in Belgrade by Milosevic and by the UCKs and other leaders in Kosovo. In addition, there is a recognition that we are in a situation where the Stortinget can also dictate more limitedly than usual what our Minister for Foreign Affairs should think, because he has to take into account that he is the OSCE President first and foremost, and then in the second round is the Norwegian Minister for Foreign Affairs. It also limits our freedom of action to saying as a big deal to dictate or play a crucial role in this context. On the other hand, there are shorter channels of communication for people who play an actual role. In the EU, most of my posts were about the EU. I believe that we are interested in close foreign policy cooperation with the EU – this was also reflected in the article. It was also highlighted by the intervention requested by the representative Hernæs, namely that it is desirable for Eastern and Central European countries to become members of the EU. It has, among other things, The Russians also agreed to address security issues in Europe as a better way than to become a member of NATO. What amazes me a little bit on the right hand side is that you don't go into what's the real and long-term foreign policy debate. Right wants both to be 100 pst. EU cooperation is closer to the United States, and it cannot be reconciled at all. Of course, one must choose one or another, as all other European countries do. But as long as the Right signs everything that comes from Washington no matter what it may be, and at the same time talks about extended foreign policy cooperation in Europe, I don't understand what you're talking about. In the long term, of course, the EU and China are the only two powers or blocs in the world that can challenge the United States in the longer term on the international arena.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e720	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e723	The European policy of the left is based on Norwegian participation in a number of organisations. It is based on the EEA Agreement, NATO, the Council of Europe, the OSCE, the Baltic Sea Cooperation and Barents Cooperation, to mention some important organisations and forms of cooperation. As regards relations with the EU, the Left is based on the EEA Agreement and the 1994 referendum result. In both contexts, the position of the Left was consistent with the decisions taken. The left joined the EEA Agreement in 1992 and the left opposed Norwegian membership of the EU. The government's basis for its European policy is the same here as that of the Left. I agree with the representative of Blankenborg that perhaps the EEA Agreement is not the most central issue in today's debate. I'll still say some words about it as well. The EEA Agreement itself has a clearly dynamic element. It takes into account the development of legislation that is subsequently introduced. This implies that the EEA Agreement itself contains clear development elements in Norway’s relationship with the EU. But this also makes the EEA a part of Norwegian domestic policy. It is therefore important to follow up on the work of greater transparency in EEA matters. In this area, with regard to greater transparency, there has been a high-priced initiative by the Government, and the issue was also central in the Foreign Minister's presentation. With regard to the issue of greater transparency, this is partly a question of more active information, of providing knowledge about which issues are being addressed, and secondly, knowledge and discussion about the issues being addressed are important. Many of the EEA cases are relatively trivial in the wider political sense. However, cases may be important for many individuals and individual groups that will be more directly affected. It is therefore important that they are given the opportunity to influence Norwegian positions and assessments against the examination of individual cases in the EU and the EEA system. It may well also be that we should ask questions about whether there should be greater transparency about the Storting's handling of these matters. In relation to the EEA issues, there is one issue that sometimes becomes central, and that is the question of whether Norway should veto any decisions. At that point, there are two angles of incidence that make sense. One is that when you've negotiated a veto right, it's there to be used, and it's to be used if necessary. On the other hand, the EEA policy will not be able to pursue a continuous use of veto. Somewhere at the crossroads between these two considerations, the direct use of the veto system must be added, and I agree with what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, that this is not suitable for theoretical discussions and deliberations; it must be assessed in cases where appropriate. The left considers that it is best for Norway to have a government which itself had the same basis for its EU policy as the 1994 position of the populace, i.e. no to membership and yes to the EEA. The government has an active attitude towards cooperation with the EU and other European organisations, but at the same time a healthy scepticism. There is no doubt that today's debate has become much more sober and calm than what could be expected from the timing of the EU debate in the autumn. It seemed then that the Labour Party and the Right did not consider that the Government had any European policy, while these parties seemed to believe that everything related to the EU was unfavorable. It could also seem that the Labour Party leader, Thorbjørn Jagland, sometimes forgot that there are larger groups in the Labour Party who have a different attitude to the EU issue than the leader himself. Yes, Ichland went on Swedish TV so far as to say that the Workers' Party was the most EU-friendly party in Europe. It was also difficult, I think, at times to realize that not part of the performances in the autumn was the beginning of a new debate on membership. On this basis, it was liberating to hear the comments from the representatives of Blankenburg and Petersen today. There was no statement on the lack of EU policy by the Government. Quite rightly, both were concerned about stressing a point with a reminder that it should be necessary to equip the Government when it went to Europe. It is then a counterclaim to claim that such a reminder at all has not been necessary. But when I hear the speech of the Foreign Minister's statement here in Stortinget, it may seem that the opposition would wish it had agreed to write it, and it certainly does not. That being said, it is probably not undesirable to have a government that invites the opposition to make recordings and that is also willing to listen to the recordings that are coming. In this context, there may be grounds for recalling that, after all, foreign policy is an area where there is a greater point in complying with a consensus between the political parties in Norway than in the other policy areas. Fortunately, what this debate has shown today is that the European debate has been withdrawn from a domestic political game, where the most important thing in the fall seemed to be affecting the Government. Norwegian European policy faces important challenges in the future. These challenges relate, on the one hand, to the EEA Agreement and, on the other, to areas outside. As far as the EEA Agreement is concerned, I have already said a few things about it. When, for example: in relation to telecommunications policy, Norway is actively working towards the EU, and it is an area in which Norway is in the forefront in many ways and is involved in establishing the rules of the game also in the EU's telecommunications policy. It is also important for Norway to follow up on what is related to EU enlargement, which will also involve an enlargement of the EEA. The question of new EU Member States is therefore also for Norway in relation to the EEA Agreement. As far as police cooperation is concerned, there is an area in which it is important to follow up the work that is taking place in the EU on the one hand, but where there may well be some sound scepticism, because there are questions about what this cooperation will develop to. If there is more pure cooperation between the police in each country, there may be good reason to associate closely with it. But if there are questions about developing a more common police force, there is every reason for scepticism. On the issue of the euro, I refer to what the representatives Steensnæs and Jakobsen have said about that relationship. There are also signs within the EU that there will be closer cooperation in foreign policy and security policy in the EU. In this case, Norway will have to deal with this, and it is not without further cause to complain directly about such a development. However, this is an area where the issue will be cooperation and coordination between Norway and the EU. A common foreign and security policy can, in itself, be a good argument for not wanting EU membership. The EU is also an important neighbour of Norway, and this raises a number of questions, such as: Fisheries policy and issues related to Russia, including: environmental issues are important. There is therefore every reason for Norway to support initiatives taken, in particular from Finland, to strengthen the northern dimension of the EU. However, European issues are also far more than just questions about the EU. The OSCE is an important organisation, and there is reason to stress that it has important tasks related to peace-building and democracy-promoting activities in Europe. And not least Norway’s situation now shows that there is an important task and can play an active role. In concrete terms, the Council of Europe also has an important role to play, such as: in relation to issues relating to the development of human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e759	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e762	Let me first say that the representative Hove has often reflected posts from this pulpit – as well today. However, as far as Europol is concerned, he was very fast. It seemed as if he had a few mandatory turns, and then he hurried on to the next theme. Together with the other Foreign Affairs Committee, Hove has been, among others: in Central Asia in the last months. In Uzbekistan, we were told how the trafficking routes are going from Afghanistan, through Uzbekistan and further northwards and into Europe. We've also been told in other contexts how hundreds of people each week try to get into Italy across the Adriatic. Combating and preventing terrorism, illicit drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings, uncontrolled trafficking in nuclear material, not least, money laundering, all of this is one of the most important political challenges facing Europe and Norway in the future, and requires cooperation. Thus, the EU is committed to Europol as a central part of its efforts to combat serious and international crime. Then, in the view of the Labour Party, there is a need for more political will to take an initiative here than has been expressed by both the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the representative of Steensnæs and the Prime Minister yesterday. Does the lawyer and the magistrate Harald Hove think that we need a more active strategy towards Europol cooperation than the representatives of the Government and the government parties have so far said? Is there not a need for a more active policy than to receive a wholesale notification during 1999?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e777	I must first be allowed to thank you for the compliment from Marit Nybakk. It was nice and, to a large extent, a bit indicative of some of the tone that has been in this debate today, compared to the way I experienced it a few months ago. It is obvious that it is important to combat international crime in the form of drug crime, drug trafficking, economic crime, environmental crime, to mention some important forms. It is important to have an open position on the extent to which various forms of international cooperation could contribute to strengthening efforts to combat this. It is also clear that cooperation, which can be seen in the outlines of which the EU is in the process of establishing a link with Europol, is of great interest in this context. And in any case, it is my opinion – perhaps a little in contrast to the representative Nybakk – that the government in this area has pursued an active policy towards the EU in the sense that it has contacted the EU, that communication has been established with the EU in order to find out what this cooperation is going to be and what it is going to be. However, when you hear representatives from the Workers' Party and their mention of Europol, it often seems as if they perceive it as having come further in their planning and implementation than they actually have. We do know relatively little about what Europol is going to be, and we have to wait to take a position on the closer relationship that we know more.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e784	There is a part that likes to promote the right of veto in the context of the debate on Europe. The representative Hove writes in Dagbladet today that ‘a government that dares to use the right of veto ensures Norwegian interests in EEA cooperation’. He was a little more nuanced in his post instead. I think this suggests a lack of sense for the consensus culture that has developed in the major structures of Europe, whether in NATO, the EU or the EEA. Everyone who has seen this cooperation in close proximity is being wonderfully impressed by the ability to unite strongly conflicting interests of independent states that have developed here. We see this today in the context of Kosovo in NATO, etc. Of course, the right to veto is a purely security valve that may have to be used, but as a traveler to shape our cooperation with Europe, he is totally useless. If he uses it too much, we'll ruin our relationship to the market that takes 70 pst. of our exports. So I want to say that the only way a government can guarantee our influence and our interests in this context is by showing the ability to influence a consensus process in a situation where we sit on the outside of the sidebar.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e791	I would like to start by saying that I acknowledge both what I have written in the newspaper today, and what I said from the pulpit. I said a little bit more about the question here from the pulpit than there was room in the post in Dagbladet, and this naturally makes it even more nuanced. As far as the right of veto is concerned, I do not think it makes sense to make it a major topic of debate in relation to Norwegian European policy and EEA policy. I can actually agree with the representative of Godal. But the right of veto is negotiated and is part of the agreement we have, and making statements in advance that it will never be used will be of little use and perhaps help to reduce the chances of reaching the consensus of the precisely representative Godal. When you're concerned about consensus in a number of organizational contexts like the ones we're talking about here, it's precisely because you often need unanimity to get results. It is clear that, in the context of the need for unanimity, it is also in reality that each country has a veto access, so that precisely these relationships have helped to create the culture that the representative Godal has just highlighted in the right way, and that I naturally have a great sense of it. So on the one hand, it's important to be clear that you're willing to use the veto right if it's proper – and there I think the government could have a slightly more active attitude than at least parts of the opposition would have. But on the other hand, not to use the veto right and to believe that it is through the governance of the EEA Agreement, I also see it as very central and important. Therefore, I would like to conclude by agreeing with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the right to veto is not suitable for ‘a theoretical discussion’, but will have to be taken there and then, when the situation may arise.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e801	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e804	I would first like to congratulate the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the excellent management he has shown from the first day as Chairman of the OSCE. There is an important job Norway has taken on here, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs should know that he has our full support in that work. I also think that the Foreign Minister's statement on European policy represents a significant step towards a broader consensus on Norway's relationship with the EU. There was no point in spreading fear about the EU, which was so widespread in 1994. Nor do we find any estimates that Norway should be a so-called different country. Instead, the speech was full of recognition of our dependence on Europe. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said that ‘there is a wave of change over our continent’. I want to add that there is clearly also a change wave going through the no-parties from 1994. There has been talk about what has happened. I have to be allowed to say that there has been a rather long way from the government last fall being split on the veterinary agreement until in this statement you actually open up for cooperation in almost all areas, and it must have been in recognition that the bulk of the population will. It's positive. This is why there is also a significant approach to EU issues. And I also think that the central parties in government have experienced how dependent we are on Europe, and how difficult and dangerous it would be to cross. Norway will benefit from this new realism. We'll serve Norway's ambitions of being outside and outside, and instead take the challenge of being within and co-responsive. We must build our joint responsibility on the 1994 referendum and intergovernmental agreements with the EU. The EEA Agreement is our main gateway to Europe. It is important to ensure that the EU is enlarged, but the EEA Agreement is primarily a market access agreement and is not sufficient to achieve the necessary links with other areas of EU cooperation. Here we have to have our own agreements. That is why the Labour Party has called for a strategic dialogue with the EU and EU countries. It must aim to provide Norway with as close a contractual relationship as possible to police and judicial cooperation, defence and security cooperation and to the euro. Here I must say that the Workers' Party is not satisfied with the Government. It is too defensive in terms of the operational situation. Follow developments and have dialogue are the foreign minister's key words. In this way, difficult decisions may be postponed, but by waiting and seeing what happens, Norway will be constantly confronted with the facts that we have to answer to. It is therefore necessary to take concrete initiatives and reach agreements in important areas. It's e.g. not satisfactory for Norway to have a dialogue with the EU on defence and security policy. Yes, we do, but when we see that the policy is changing, we have to know what we want and aim for, and flag it already now. Only dialogue becomes too weak for Norway. If the defence organisation of the Western Union is part of the EU and the EU is developing defence and security cooperation, so that this is really becoming the European defence and security policy identity of NATO, Norway must have an agreement with the EU on participation – otherwise our position in NATO will be significantly weakened. I don't think it's any good strategy to wait and see what it becomes. We see what the signals are, and we should promote our desires as quickly as possible. I would say that if the Government has no ambition in this field other than dialogue, the Workers' Party must reserve the right to make proposals in the Stortinget that impose a more active strategy on the Government. The same will apply to the newly established EU police organisation, Europol. Here it is not enough to follow developments and come back to the matter in a big message during the year, as the Prime Minister said on Wednesday. It is now necessary to initiate an agreement with Europol. This will be a natural extension of the Schengen Agreement. The fight against international crime, drug trafficking, money laundering, trafficking in human beings, car thefts and child pornography is essential. Crime has become internationalised. It has done very little to combat it, but now it is. Europol will be an important instrument and an information bank with information that Norway needs. We can't achieve full participation here. Only EU members can do so. However, the Europol Convention provides for agreements with third countries. Several countries, including the United States of America, do not say, as is said here in Norway, that there is so much that there is no way to make contact and reach agreements. They are asking for contact and agreement already now. Norway has little to pick up on to construct problems and push the matter ahead. We have everything to earn from being offensive right now. This is also the starting point of the Workers' Party in relation to the euro. In the beginning, the government's answer was that it was not possible to obtain anything. Then Secretary of State Haga was in Brussels, and she came back with signals that it was possible to get something. Then the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance traveled to Brussels. The result has been that there will be a dialogue. It's very positive, and I think it might prove very useful for Norway to have started such a dialogue in the turbulent world we live in. This can gradually be translated into concrete proposals for arrangements underpinning the stability policy that Norway wishes to pursue and on which there is a broad consensus at the main hall. There is a wave of change across Europe, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said. But there is also a wave of change all over the world. The changes have many facets. One of the important and visible features of development is regionalisation in the world. In fact, I believe that the most visible feature is now that the global arena is that the countries join forces in regions, among other things. to protect themselves against global market forces and to exploit the opportunities offered by global market forces. This gives countries greater security and therefore greater freedom of action. They combine to tackle problems that have become cross-border, such as environmental problems, crime and currency problems. I would say that this regionalisation also contributes to creating a stronger global order. This could be done, for example, by: There is no doubt that the creation of the euro will protect against global market forces for the participating countries. The stability it provides in one of the world's largest trading areas can give greater stability to the entire globe. I think it would be unusually unwise for Norway to stand outside the regionalization that is taking place on our planet. We now see, when, after all, we are in 1999, more clearly what our century has been – much to be ashamed of, something to be proud of. It has been shown that no magic form, no blind belief or passive withdrawal has solved the problems. Institutions and networks are needed to ensure the results achieved. Europe has built such institutions. I'm glad it's over to see these as a threat to well-being and democracy. The Secretary of State's statement shows that. As a result, the European debate has been brought into a new and positive waters. I finally want to say that with what we now look out in the world, it will be incredibly short-sighted to think that the problems are over. There has been reference to the interest rate here in Norway, which will fall among others. as a result of a shift in economic policy in more responsible directions. But if you see what's happening out there, with the risk of devaluation in Latin America and maybe in China and what it could lead to by turbulence, it would be incredibly short-sighted to say that the sky is once again discrete. We should be well served to adhere closely to the region we belong to. It will provide results and a security that I believe will be important for Norway. This will even give greater freedom of action.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e833	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e836	I see the positive and relatively conciliatory tone in the speeches by Mr Jagland as promising for a future EU debate. I'd like to give him credit for it. This government has been praised internationally for its rapid implementation of the EEA Directives. Is Jagland willing to go so far that he will give the Government credit for the policy it has pursued in relation to the EEA and Europe, based on the outcome of the 1994 referendum? That is the one question I would like to have the representative Jagland's view on. So that's point number. 2nd@item: inlistbox I've been talking about the wave that's going through Europe. What I want to ask him about, which he did not have in mind in his speech, concerns the inaugural fire we are now seeing in Europe, in Kosovo, which the representative of Jagland did not at all affect, where the leading political and military experts dealing with this conflict, who are in the area, show that there is a great danger that in five to seven weeks there will be full war down there. And with the background of the military imbalance in the area, this could lead to a brutal slaughter of innocent human lives, and we'll be able to experience that hundreds of thousands of people are fleeing. My question to the representative Jagland is therefore: How will the Labour Party and the representative Jagland work to influence the Norwegian authorities in order to do something in this area before it is too late?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e847	Regarding the first part of the question, I would like to say that we started to cheat a little in the fall when the members of the government started to take theses. We wondered if something should be done at all in relation to the EU. We had to put the matter on the agenda. We have been pushed forward with a dialogue with the EU on the euro, a significant move has been made on Europol issues, and in terms of cooperation in defence and security policy, the distance from the warning that the EU could become a superpower, as was said in 1994, is enormous, so that most people now say that we should have a link to this. The question is what to do operationally and how quickly to proceed, and of course there may be some disagreement there. The Labour Party will do what it can to obtain solutions in time, so that Norway does not just sit and respond to what the EU does. We have, after all, an opportunity to influence by taking initiative and being early out, so that we do not just become a country that sits and responds to what is coming. With regard to Kosovo, I would like to say the following: Since the question was what the Labour Party will do to influence Norwegian authorities, I would say that the Labour Party will do what we can to support Norwegian authorities. We are working here in a community in Europe, in the OSCE, in NATO in particular, and I think it is important for Norway to cooperate with the other allies on what to do in Kosovo, and not try to do alone in this. And when Norway even has the chairmanship of the OSCE, I think it should be our job to support what is being done. It will be much more important than trying to mark specialty points on the Norwegian way home.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e854	The Workers' Party has thus absolutely an explanation need for the marked change in rhetoric and the clear demise of the alleged inaction of the Government's Europe policy. Iland referred to the presentation and considered that the Government has embarked on a different strategy and changed its view of important parts of European policy. I would say that the Labour Party's criticism has always lacked substance, and that the Workers' Party is now taking the consequences of this. Now, Mr Jagland rightly maintains his criticism in two areas. I am not going into Europol, as the Prime Minister and I also signed his statement today have explained in detail the situation. However, the issue of a stronger connection between the krona and the euro is being re-examined by Iland. In my opinion, it is still as unclear what the Workers' Party means by such a firmer attachment. I have tried to clarify this by expressing the need for an extended credit agreement with the European Central Bank. It is already clear that this cannot happen without Norway changing its monetary policy and returning it to a fixed-rate policy, as we had in this country before 10 December 1992. In that case, as I said in my post, we can shoot a white stick after such an interest rate reduction as we received yesterday, when the Norwegian Bank changed its signal rate. Now I think it is important that we get a clarification from the Workers' Party: Does the Workers' Party hold on to the monetary policy, the flexible fixed rate policy that the Government is pursuing today, or does this wish from the Workers' Party for a firmer link between the Norwegian krona and the euro mean that the Workers' Party wants to change the current monetary policy?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e865	It may seem that representatives from government parties need to create larger dividing lines than it is. We're trying to get the least possible dividing lines. But when it comes to what has happened here, it's a fact that it was said that you didn't intend to try anything in relation to the euro. Then they tried it, and came back and said they had established a dialogue with the EU. It's positive. So at this point, we don't need to go beyond those dividing lines. We need to stick to that dialogue. If Steensnæs now signals that you really don't want that dialogue, it's something new in itself, and different from what both Prime Minister and Minister of Finance have said. With regard to Europol, there has been a gliding flight from the Prime Minister from Brussels to today, when he saw no intention whatsoever of doing anything here. Now they have to be active on several levels. It's also positive. It is very positive that you follow up the signals given by Stortinget. With regard to the euro, I just want to point out what the President of the Banking Association, Arne Schauge, has said about this: ‘In order to further support the commitment of fiscal policy to ensure internal stability, we have been asked by the Banking Association to examine the possibilities of linking the krone to the euro. The significance of this is not so much in the economic content of the contract, i.e. in the aid that can be achieved if the crown is put under pressure – we ourselves have very rich foreign reserves – but in the political commitment it imposes on us through an international agreement to declare monetary stability as an objective.» That is what is important, and it should not be ruled out that it has had an impact, even now, that it has actually been expressed by the majority of the population and by the Government that a dialogue with the European Union will support the policies they are pursuing. And it can also extend such agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e879	After the main issues that the Central Government of the Workers Party has adopted, and which are going unilaterally to get the Government to act as a yes-party, I expected a rough drive when I prepared for this debate. But I think the Jagland tone is different, and I think the government parties should notice that the tone is muted, and that the challenges are more nuanced than that. Now I don't know if that means that at that moment the Workers' Party thinks that there's going too far or that there's something to criticize the Government for, they find together with the Right and threaten them a little more. But I think the government's starting point is that there are new tones on the yes side, as I see it. I've often done a thought experiment. Let's say it had become a yes to the 1994 referendum on the European Union. In many crossroads – if it was the case that we had a labour party government to manage Norway’s interests as an EU member – I think the Labour Party had acted in the public debate as a much more critical EU party than it does as a yes party in a situation where Norway is not an EU member. And that's my challenge to Jagland, too. If it is that the Labour Party is now satisfied that there is a dialogue between the Norwegian Government and the EU in the field of monetary policy – yes, it is fine and beautiful, no one is against it. What one has major problems with, however, is a change in Norwegian monetary policy towards a much stronger, both political and economic, relationship with the EU, because there are many clear economic features in Norway that make us unserviceable. If it is that the Workers' Party is interested in having a closer dialogue with the Government, also on how to use the freedom of action we actually have outside the EU, and that not everything is just about how we can adapt as quickly as possible, it is possible to get into a new and a little more interesting track. Is there any area in which the Labour Party wants the Government and the majority of the Storting to do anything other than to adapt as much as possible to the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e886	It is more likely that the Labour Party, as a yes party, led a more autonomous economic policy towards the EU than the current government does. We haven't seen the husband of custom, really. We led an active economic policy that was significantly different from what was often seen in the EU countries, which led to a reduction in unemployment. What has the current government done? Well, it spent so much money that it drove the country into a hopeless situation. Then came all the monetary problems in the world. We then had to pursue a policy of tightening up – we see all the results of it – and so we have gone to the point of saying straight away that we really need to pursue the same policy that the European Union is doing, for example. price stability is an important objective. I fully agree with that, and I strongly argued during the EU fight that it had to be at the bottom of any economic policy. But it was strongly warned against it from the No side, the goal of price stability would conflict with the goal of combating unemployment. So there's been a significant approach, and it's actually the current government that has done it. I cannot quite see what are the very big differences between the economic policies that are now being pursued and those that are being pursued in the European Union, but I can agree that it is important for each country to maintain its freedom of action. But to the representative Kristin Halvorsen: The Workers' Party, as you know, has another economic policy, which is different from the one currently run by the Government. So it shows that it's possible to pursue a different policy, but it doesn't mean that the current government would.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e896	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e900	I agree with the representative, Kristin Halvorsen, that we have had a much more calm and nuanced debate today on the EU than that part of the opposition played out in advance. That's interesting. But that is also good, because I think it is important that this debate be as concrete as possible. But I think it is a little difficult sometimes to get to grips with what the Labour Party wants, as its leader has just said that the Labour Party – and obviously it will also lead – led a more autonomous policy towards the EU, and that it is the current government that is pursuing an adjustment policy that you have not seen before, while the Labour Party is talking again in the next moment about extending cooperation with and adapting to the EU in more and more areas. I don't think that's much to do with hopping. The overall perspective of the Government's European policy is this: how can we, on a European basis, prevent wars and conflicts, secure peace and stability, win respect for fundamental human rights and guarantee everyone a legitimate share of the wealth we take for granted? The answer to this question is to develop pan-European cooperation, regional cooperation arrangements, our security anchoring in NATO and an active relationship with the EU – on the basis of the referendum and the EEA Agreement. Less than a month ago, Norway took over the Presidency of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Since then, and especially our foreign minister, we have never been involved in peace-building work before. There was no doubt that the Presidency would pose major challenges. It requires maximum effort, wisdom and creative diplomacy. A lot is still ahead of us. But I think we have shown one thing: that we are ready to take responsibility and that smaller countries can make important contributions to conflict resolution and cooperation. This willingness to commit and co-responsibility is the driving force behind the Government's Europe policy. In March, the Barents Council meets at Minister of Foreign Affairs in Bodø. On 1 July Norway shall take over the Presidency of the Baltic Sea Council. Both are examples of the same will. Co-responsibility, commitment, participation and cooperation are also key drivers of the Government’s relationship with the EU. We want, and we are pursuing an active European policy on the grounds of the referendum. Norway does not participate in the Union project of renunciation and supranationality. Instead, we go in to build on a broad intergovernmental cooperation based on the EEA Agreement. It has been five years since the entry into force of the EEA Agreement. It has given Norwegian business access to the internal market, and has laid the basis for dialogue and cooperation with the EU in a number of areas. Today, as five years ago, the agreement serves Norwegian interests well. It'll still be able to do that. The recent talks with Chancellor Schröder and President Santer confirmed the importance of the EU Presidency and the Commission to the EEA Agreement and cooperation with Norway. I showed both a clear willingness to intensify dialogue and political contact, and an equally unequivocal desire to continue and strengthen the close cooperation we have with the EU in a number of areas. It's not about polite phrases. The EFTA countries are the EU’s second largest trading partner – after the United States, but before Japan. Norway will deliver 20 pst in a few years. of all natural gas to an EU becoming increasingly dependent on energy imports. In these facts, there is a reminder of what is often overlooked, namely that the EEA Agreement and cooperation with Norway actually play an important role for the EU. We are a serious partner who has a lot to contribute. This is the government's objective to exploit constructively. From our point of view, we focus on close and personal contact with EU leaders. It is in this way the second time I have met both the German leadership and President Santer of the European Commission. Political dialogue is essential for us to understand our interests and to contribute to the Europe that is now emerging. The right-wing leader has repeatedly tried with a picture that the government needs a trade note when we are out in Europe. I can assure the Right Leader that the Government has developed thorough, comprehensive arrangements for its discussions in Europe. But I have actually stressed – and I thought it was received positively – that the government also sought contact with the opposition parties to get a recording, without mentioning it the way it was done. I guess I must also be allowed to say that the arrangements made by the government for my travels were perhaps more thorough, more extensive and had a higher level of precision than the trade notes Jan Petersen thought he would equip us with. The Brussels and Bonn meetings also provided an opportunity to discuss the economic and monetary union and the impact on Norway of the introduction of the euro. The Minister of Finance will explain this in more detail in his statement. However, I would point out that we made it clear that there is a broad consensus in the Great Britain on monetary policy. We want to stick to our current monetary regime, based on stable exchange rates against European currencies. At the same time, we stressed that, with a view to identifying possible forms of cooperation arrangements, we would be interested in keeping in touch as the EU defines its relationship with third countries in the field covered by economic and monetary union. The objective of such contacts must be to maintain the stability of the Norwegian krona. We now record with satisfaction that the value of the crown has been strengthened and stabilised in the new year, and that we have already received the first interest rate reduction. And allow me, like a ghostly parentheses, to say that we're waiting for the opposition's comments, it was always fast on the spot that the government was guilty when interest went up by a half or a quarter. I expect that it is a mere forget that the government is not to blame when the interest is now falling. I must also allow myself to say that the debate on the euro at an early stage at my discretion seemed somewhat unrealistic. Support purchase agreements require, as appropriate, a fixed-rate policy. It doesn't want the government – and I don't think the bulk of the population – to go back to. The introduction of the euro is a new and dynamic factor in European integration. In other areas too, we see integration shooting speed. This is increasingly the case in the area of security and defence policy. No one can today say what the result of the currently started processes will be. But one thing we have to say: they will affect vital Norwegian interests. I have made it clear that closer EU cooperation in the area of security and defence policy must not go along with the lifeline for Europe of the transatlantic links with North America. Similarly, I have underlined our desire, as an ally and associated member of the Western Union, that Norway should be included on advice in the further discussions on these issues, including: against the NATO Summit in Washington in April. We received a positive and confirmatory response. And I would also like to say that if the Western European Union is to be moved into the EU, it is quite clear to me that we must seek a link with this cooperation, as we have today to the Western Union. So the ambition is, to say it to Jagland, more than dialogue. When our cooperation with the EU is so close and close, it is because we share many values and goals. Crime and violence are also an increasing social sin in the EU. It updates the need for increased international cooperation. Norway is actively participating in Interpol. On 1 October 1998, the EU established Europol. The organisation has no operational activities but serves as a coordination and information body. Norwegian police authorities have had informal contact with Europol. Only EU countries may be parties to the Convention, but other countries may have different forms of cooperation. Such cooperation requires clarification of several important issues. It will be dealt with in a separate report on combating international crime, which includes: will also discuss Europol. But we are focused on cooperation in areas where we have common challenges. I can inform you that Norway has already been invited by Europol to an expert meeting on illegal immigration to be held in The Hague on 3 February. The Government sends two experts from the Ministry of Justice to this meeting. Let me just say in the end that the government has also entered into active cooperation with the EU on energy policy, which Jan Petersen called for – I don't get time to say more about it, but may perhaps come back to it. And as a comment to Grete Knudsen, we have been given an opening to reintroduce the dialogue on fisheries cooperation, which was concluded in the context of the conclusion of the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e942	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e945	It is not certain that the Prime Minister meant it this way, but I still have to deal with it, since he said that the Workers' Party wants to expand cooperation with the EU in all areas, is not in line with the expressed desire to have freedom of action as well. It is our opinion that it is when we are able to work closely with our main trading partners and allies that we are getting more freedom of action. Norway is in a very special economic situation, among other things. by the fact that our foreign trade represents about 40 pst. of our gross domestic product, and 75 pst. of our exports to the EU. It goes without saying that the closer cooperation we can get with our trading partners, the greater the financial freedom we get. I assume that this is the reasoning relating to the economy, but also to a number of other areas, which is why the Government is now actually on the same line. That is what the Foreign Minister's statement says, that Norway wants to cooperate with the EU. I guess it's not to weaken our freedom of action, it's actually to strengthen our freedom of action that you want such cooperation. It's at least a hope that's how the government sees it. The EU debate has really gone a long way in that, if it is taken into account. Bondevik said that the government's own record of action was more thorough than that of the Labour Party, but it did not address what is most topical in EU cooperation now, police and judicial cooperation, when the prime minister was in Brussels. The government should have done that. It will be dealt with in a big message, says the Prime Minister now. It's too late. The Labour Party believes that it is advisable to get to Stortinget as soon as possible with an initiative on what is to be done in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e952	What was the starting point of my initial remark to Jagland was that he said that the Workers' Party was pursuing a more autonomous economic policy vis-à-vis the EU than the current government – as he said: the husband of adaptation policies that the current government is leading. I don't think that's the basis, I don't get it to hang in a hop. The husband of adaptation policy – that is an entirely unspecified claim. On the contrary, when this government has said that we want an independent and critical assessment of, for example: EU directives, we have received critical comments from the Workers' Party, which clearly believe that we should be more adaptable. And what in the economic policy that should be more independent from the Labour Party than the one that this government has led in relation to the European Union, I find that difficult to see. A very close link with the euro, if that is what the Labour Party is after, will mean a strong adjustment to EU economic policy, so I am proud that they have pursued such a very independent policy in relation to the European Union. This is hard to get. But let's put the more theoretical discussion away, I think it's much more interesting concrete to discuss what we're going to do in the future. As far as Europol is concerned, we are interested in cooperation on an intergovernmental basis not supranationally in order to combat crime. I mentioned a concrete example of that, the cooperation to combat illegal immigration, where the Government already cooperates with Europol and would like to develop it. We need to take this specific area into account. A debate becomes more interesting when it becomes concrete than when it becomes general. The same applies to the euro. In general, talking about a closer connection to the euro is not going to be very interesting until one comes down to the concrete level. Is there a support purchase agreement and back to the fixed-price policy? Well, I guess the Working Party's done it. Extended loan arrangements, is the last Workers' Party has said. It is a good thing, but the loan system cannot function without a fixed-rate policy, and it will not have the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e961	In contrast to the representative, Mr Igland, the Progress Party will largely and largely be satisfied with the policy pursued by this government in relation to the EEA and Europe, particularly in the context of the 1994 referendum. I also believe that the Prime Minister gave a clear and concise explanation of the policy pursued by the Government. However, some of this debate — I am not referring specifically to the Prime Minister — has, in my view, been characterised by almost an outreach of a number of commentary articles in international media such as this. Time, Newsweek and Der Spiegel, and where it may also seem that the process is more important than the political outcome itself. What I would like to ask the Prime Minister is the situation in Kosovo, which he did not affect. As I said in my previous post, they stand there in a situation where there is a danger that there will be a complete fire. I know that the Prime Minister has been very concerned about this with human rights, which the Government has also profiled very highly, so that what I could imagine is a more detailed explanation of, is the Government's position, what you will do from the government team, so that you don't experience a new – and greater – humanitarian disaster in this area than the one you've already experienced.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e968	I agree with the representative Danielsen that we have already experienced a humanitarian disaster in ex-Yugoslavia, including the Kosovo region, and that there is a danger that it may become even greater. There is a background for the Government’s active involvement, where one is now primarily using the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe as an instrument for the organisation for which it is established: peace-building and reconciliation work. I also want to allow myself to say in parentheses that I have noticed that the OSCE – or KSSE, as it was before – that was heavily downgraded by many in this room, now in recent times by the same parties has been evaluated. And it's nice to register for someone who's been talking about this organization for almost ten years. But we are fully aware that the OSCE will be helpless in Kosovo if it fails to keep the parties away from acts of war and fighting. That is why the OSCE's presence and its humanitarian and peace-building work, combined with NATO's threat to action, are important. A further development of this will now be discussed, as you know, in the coming days. Experience shows that President Milosevic clearly understands only one language, and that is the language of power. He's breaking agreements. And the seriousness of doing that has to be re-occurred to him. Then we get to hope that this can lead to one avoiding war and conflict, and that one can escalate the humanitarian effort, which depends on it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e977	I realized that the Prime Minister wanted to hear someone from the opposition say a little about the relationship between the Government and the interest rate, and I would like to do that very much. Now we should not exaggerate what happened yesterday. The reality is that interest rates fell so that the difference from the EU level would not increase. That was the point. But when it was possible to do so, it is not least because the Government was equipped with a government budget that was significantly better suited to the economic challenge than the government budget itself presented — a budget with, among other things, a budget. significantly lower price impulses. That's the one. The second concerns the OSCE. I agree with the role of the OSCE, but let me point out that it is because the OSCE does what it should do, and not the many dreams that it should do ten years ago. Now the organisation is doing what it needs to do. But don't let this overshadow that I see one of the Prime Minister's wordings today was very interesting and very useful. What he said was that when we have such a close and close relationship with the European Union as we have, it's because we share many values and goals, we have many common values and goals. It is a very important sentence, because it goes straight into the ideas many have about Norway as a completely different country with different values than the rest of the countries in Europe. This was in a way a death blow to the very idea of the ‘other country’, and if this is an expression of the government’s policy, then it is no wonder that Europe’s debate is calmer today than it would otherwise be. So to my specific question: I have been busy with energy today and was looking to listen to what the head of government would say about it. I understand that he had a brief statement – so he did not find much room for it, and then my question is this: When the Foreign Minister did not say anything specifically about this topic, and when the Prime Minister did not say anything specifically about it, does it simply mean that the Government believes that there is nothing special to say about it?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e988	Government and interest rates - yes, yes. I understand that the conclusion to Jan Petersen's comment on that point is that when interest rates go up, it's the government's responsibility, and when interest rates go down, it's the opposition's responsibility. It wasn't a special confession. But we'll see further – as I understand it, the crown has continued to strengthen itself beyond today, so there can be more possibilities for the opposition to tread as quickly as they did last year, every time interest went up. Then it was the government's responsibility. I think it might be a little hard to explain to people that now, when interest rates go down, it's suddenly become the opposition's responsibility. Then there was the EU and Norway and values and goals. The fact that Norway and other Western European countries have many common values and objectives, I do not think that any EU opponent will disagree with: democracy, our Christian cultural heritage, the environment, security, etc. – the areas in which we work in concrete cooperation with the European Union. The question is whether the way to realise these values is best through Union construction and supranationality. That's the discussion about membership, not whether one has some common values and goals. Then there was energy. I had actually planned to say a good deal about it in my post, but this note to Jan Petersen derailed me so carefully that I did not go there. But now I'm going to say a little bit of what I was going to say, that the relationship between energy and the environment was actually central in my meetings with Schröder and Santer. It is ongoing, for example: an intensive debate in Germany on the introduction of environmental taxes on fossil fuels. And then the use of Norwegian energy could also bring significant environmental benefits to Germany and other EU countries. Ritt Bjerregaard, responsible for environmental protection within the European Commission, and the Federal Chancellor in Germany, was involved in closer cooperation with Norway on these issues, with particular emphasis on climate policy and the follow-up to the Kyoto Agreement. In fact, they believed that Norway had a lot to contribute. We agree, and we intend to contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e997	The inner core of the 1994 dispute over EU membership was a balance between, on the one hand, the participation of Norway in the EU as a member and, on the other hand, the freedom to act outside the EU as a non-member. I think almost everyone understands that there are advantages and disadvantages to both, and that in the current situation where the people have said no, this is both increasing our participation in important decisions for Norway in the EU and using the freedom of action that outside the EU gives us in a number of areas. As far as participation is concerned, of course, it would be the largest member of the EU. However, even if we are not a member of the European Union, we can play a decisive role in making important decisions. That is what the Government is now following up, and it is also positive that it looks like an overall increase in opinion that we should have a close link with EU foreign policy cooperation, for example. through an association agreement. What is not as positive, on the other hand, is that the government does not use the freedom of action it gives us to stand outside the EU in a meaningful way. When Bondevik was now shamed by Jan Petersen because he conducts the Economic Policy of the Right after the budgetary conciliation last autumn, such a policy is the very opposite of what the whole no-side wanted in 1994. We said no to the EU for less right-wing policy in Norway. We have had more right-wing policies in Norway than in almost any other European country, at least in terms of the direct influence of the right-wing parties on the budgetary process. But it is more important to ask: Why not use the freedom of action outside the EU to pursue a different environmental policy? That's what we were talking about in 1994, the center parts and the SV together. We wanted Norway to be a driver when it came to Kyoto and the world climate. We wanted Norway to be able to actively oppose some of the EU environmental directives and try to influence them in a positive direction. Why does the Government not now go out offensively and use our freedom of action to influence the EU in a more environmentally friendly, greener direction?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e1006	I fully agree with the introduction by Erik Solheim, that the question of whether or not one is a member of the EU, is really a balance between the greater influence on the EU's decisions that a member naturally has, and greater freedom by not being a member. I think both Erik Solheim and I belong to those members who in the 1994 debate also tried to be so nuanced and honest in that area. It's a balance of these things. In fact, we who have gone against membership manage the views of the peoples too, and in that we can be bold, so I have said that we must pursue a bold European policy, that is the position of the peoples. I am in favour of building cooperation with the European Union as such and with the Member States of the European Union on that basis. I have no fear of it, on the contrary, but it's going to happen on this basis. It's also the government's policy. This also applies in the field of environmental policy. It is not right that Erik Solheim tries to create an impression, that Norway is a sink and does nothing in this area. Now one also has to be concrete, because I get a little tired of these general statements without a concrete one. Then to climate policy. The EU has seen Norway's position and also our leadership of the so-called umbrella group as a follow-up to the Kyoto agreement as so important and so interesting that they want us to have direct cooperation on this. Norway is pursuing an energy policy that is more environmentally friendly in many areas than downwards in Europe, because of its hydropower, we have been able to avoid coal power and we have avoided nuclear power. The government does not want polluting gas power plants, but sees the possibility that we may now have a technology that allows us to get away from pollution-free gas power plants. Through this we can make a contribution to the rest of Europe. That's what this government wants. And this is not to be a retard, this is to be a driver. Otherwise, I don't think Jan Petersen agrees that the budget adopted last autumn was Right-wing economic policy. Both he, and even more Carl I. Hagen, have emphasized to those degrees that this was their subsidiary position. Last night, Hagen said it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e1017	First, a brief comment on interest rates. Yes, this is the way it has always been. When the interest rate went up in the autumn, the government would not be responsible for it at all. Then it was the exchange rate, then it was the oil price that caused us to have an interest rate problem in Norway. So this is like it's always been. The Prime Minister has stressed today that it is not very interesting to discuss on a general level, and he is basically a little tired, he says, of this unhealthy mass of connection to the EU, etc. Then I have to be allowed to say that it has been difficult in the last few days as well as getting to know the specifics of what it is, for example. The Prime Minister is thinking of closer links with Europol, which he has come to be intriguing. So a little bit about monetary policy, which is really my concern when I now ask the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister welcomed the establishment of a dialogue with the EU on monetary policy. The Labour Party is a good thing, and we want that dialogue to continue. At the same time, representatives of the government parties today and also the prime minister are trying to minimize the initiative of the Workers' Party to say that loan agreements, credit agreements, are out of date with our current monetary policy. Yes, but it really is that Norway has just as fully signed such a new agreement with the European Central Bank. And why? Well, I guess it has to be because Norway has an interest in that very interface, the channel such a contractual relationship actually gives us to the central bank and to the EU in monetary matters. And can the Prime Minister now confirm that such an agreement as the one we already have actually has its own value, even in a situation where the Prime Minister and others must declare it to be asleep? If not, it would not have been interesting for Norway to establish such a new agreement, I would assume.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e1027	Such a loan agreement may have its own value, for it may be a signal to the market for stability. But one must, in the name of truth, draw attention to the fact that it cannot be done without a transition to a fixed-rate policy. I have understood that the Workers' Party does not want to change to a fixed-rate policy. It's very risky for an oil nation like Norway. That's why I have to say that when the original part of the Workers' Party ended up wanting an extension of an already existing system, which cannot be triggered without another monetary policy, it was kind of a slightly different and more modest dimension of it than how I perceived the original play. But when that is said, we can put that debate behind us and move on to a realistic basis. The government sees it this way, and it will deepen the Minister of Finance in his speech, that only having a dialogue with the European Union – at the level of finance ministers, at the level of the governors, at the level of government and experts – can have a self-esteem as a signal to the outside world that we want stability both in relation to the EU and to the whole of the international market, and because, of course, one in this dialogue can also possibly develop further cooperation arrangements that we cannot see clearly today. In this way, I believe that the Government and the Workers' Party share vision, and that's what we're thinking. So I guess I'm not going to tease that much more about the interest rate, the opposition and the government. But I think the truth is that when we had the interest rate increases last fall, the government, as it was true, said that the reason for it was a combination of international and national conditions. The national authorities, of course, have their responsibility for this. Then we'll see what the opposition said. But every time there was an interest rate increase, they were quickly on the verge of saying, "Yes, that's what it's going to be under this government." So we wait consolingly for comments when the interest rate gradually goes down even more gradually.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e1036	The replicator shift is over, and the president can put his trading note away.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e1039	Last night, in a debate in Oslo City Council, we experienced that the representative of the Red Valgallians voted against calling a small place in Oslo for the Council of Europe – not because, as the representative said, the Council of Europe was not known to be anything other than the EU, the euro or Europol for that matter, but people could easily misunderstand and believe that it had something to do with it. That is why this RV representative proposed a different name. The reason why I dwell on this, and the reason why I think it's politically interesting, is that, in my opinion, it's a response to what I would call europhobia, and that this attitude is reflected in many of the country's voters. At my discretion, in this statement and in the speeches that have been presented by the government representatives in this debate, it is that the main political and historical significance of the Government in Europe is shown. This government, which has been commended in the EFTA and EEA committees for the rapid implementation of the EU directives, plays an important role because, in the main, as I have said, it pursues a sensible and good policy towards the European Union, based on the political assumptions put through our no towards the EU in the 1994 referendum. From a pedagogical point of view, this is also important because it demmonises the EU, while giving a good illustration of the political potential of the Norwegian Government within the EEA Agreement. This is – to use terms of veterinary policy – a good vaccine against the kind of europhobia experienced in public and political environments in Norway. As an example of this debate, this can have a major impact on the Europe debate in Norway in the future. In order to use a concept for which some members of the Government are probably enthusiastic, it contributes to some sort of eroding of the debate, but at the same time there is also a clear pedagogical demonstration of the limited powers of influence that Norway has in international policies in the current situation. If you look at the long lines and at political developments in the short term, it may also be a symbol of the limited influence of a central government, which will neither bind to the right nor to the left in Norwegian policy, as long as it does not have a parliamentary majority behind it. Norway is a small country in the world, former Prime Minister Korvald has said. Although we currently have the chairmanship of the OSCE, on a number of previous occasions we have played and are also now playing a central role in the mediation function in several international issues. However, my view is that Norway's influence in the world can as far as possible be exercised in binding international cooperation organisations, based on intergovernmental agreements and autonomy. This should also apply to our relationship with Europe. If, in the long term, we are going to be involved and influence the direction Europe is taking, and if we are going to take part in the European debate in the years to come, it is my personal position – although the 1994 referendum result is firm, and the clear position of the Progress Party is that this should be respected and that we should possibly have a new referendum before we change this European policy – that Norway is best served by membership of the European Union in the long term. My political commitment is because it is easier to influence a process from the inside than from the outside. Working in the EU is just a political process in which there is a question of taking and giving, in a dialogue where the quality and the presentation of the arguments are of great importance to the influence that one has on the outcome of the process.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e1054	Let me first say to the representative Danielsen that it was nice that at least one of the two representatives of the Progress Party spoke in this debate about what was the subject, namely our relationship with Europe. In a relatively short time, there is a slight change that few are aware of. Then the capital of Germany is moved from Bonn to Berlin. This shift further shifts the political centre of gravity from the Bonn-Paris-Benelux axis to the north-east. Poland, the Czech Republic, the Baltic Sea countries and the Nordic countries are increasingly becoming partners for Germany, and the north-east is becoming the centre of gravity of the new EU after enlargement in a few years. Yes, in fact, the Baltic Sea becomes an EU resource. German trade with Poland is already greater than with China and Japan. Poland is a growing country. The largest pessimists have probably thought that the enlargement process to the east could take a long time, and the fear of being invaded by Polish workers, not least in Germany and Austria. These pessimists may have to admit that they were wrong. Because in Poland, employment and growth are increasing. When Poland joins the EU, it will have major consequences for Norway, in fact for ordinary people and for people most in Norway, because trade with Poland is large, and we will then have to regulate it through the EEA Agreement. Our European policy, as many have said before, must continue to be based on the outcome of the referendum. We are outside the EU, but the change process and structural changes in the Union have a very significant impact on Norway. We have to be involved in setting the agenda, we cannot always risk being confronted with the facts of the facts, and then say that now we have to adapt to the structural changes in the EU. Regardless of whether we said yes or no in 1994 and what ambitions we have, or I had almost not said, in relation to future integration, we need to pursue an active European policy, both bilaterally with each EU country and with the European institutions. It doesn't matter to us how Europe evolves. Nor does it matter how the countries currently negotiating EU membership develop – Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovenia, the Baltic States. It is in our interest to qualify these countries for EU membership and not just to provide a good economy and tight budgets, but to ensure ecology, equality, democracy, civil society building, a well-functioning state apparatus, well-being and human rights. I have just spent a weekend at a democracy seminar for Czech politicians. There, kindergartens were wiped out, equality between women and men was perceived as communism after the fall of the Wall in Germany — that is, in all Eastern European countries — and tax collection is missing a proper system, just to mention some examples. It does not matter to us how these new EU Member States develop. Strengthening European cooperation to the east will generally be positive for Norway and a stabilising factor together with the NATO enlargement to Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic. We already see how Finland’s and Sweden’s entry into the EU has helped to link the EU closer to the North and the North. The EU enlargement and the northern dimension will help to bring Russia closer to Europe and the Nordic region. ‘Without a stable Russia, there will be no stability in Europe,’ said Erik Solheim, and I can join it. I would also like to re-examine something that I raised in yesterday's spontaneous Question Time, namely that the funds for both Eastern Europe and Russia now seem to have been used up. Yesterday the Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed that he would come back to Stortinget with this. Today, we have received a letter from the LO saying that 36 projects between the LO and our partners in Eastern Europe need to be iced up, because it has been announced that there is no more money on the 1999 budget for projects in Eastern Europe and Russia. [[The President clubs.]] This is at best not offensive in being an active driver for projects in Russia and for qualifying our neighbourhoods for EU membership.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e1080	The President must ask for one to follow the scheduled speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e1083	I think few would believe me about me a few years ago, for example. In 1994, or 1995, Norway had said that it would record its opinion on EU membership under a no-led government. Never have so many been enthusiastic about anything else, i.e. EU membership, other than the administration of exclusion. On its very existence, in many ways the demonstration of foreign and foreign policy by the present parties has led to the opening up of the EU to the opinion that is interesting. It is not yet on the political agenda, but it is true that people's opinion is gradually affecting politicians as well. The great horrors of the EU debate on the no-go, inter alia: Economic and monetary union is now a basis for cooperation for Norway. And a central finance minister wants the euro to succeed, and wants the euro to be a success, because, as he rightly says, it is crucial for Norwegian policy, and it is vital that Norway can pursue a stable economic policy. We experienced a Central Party finance minister who expressed in the national budget a policy that I cannot see in any significant areas differs from the growth and stability pact in the EU. And the Growth and Stability Pact is the basis of economic and monetary union. That's interesting. It is not certain to take note of this in Europe, because it means little to Europe, but Interestingly, it means a lot to Norway. The small thing in this will be in many ways, but it is a demonstration of the same form of defaitism, that the aim of this government's influence on important decisions in Europe concerning Norway is how many audiences are granted among EU politicians and the number of Brussels trips they make! Many have been concerned about whether the debate has so far subdued criticism of the Government. It is possible that, according to some formulations, this may appear to be the case, but it is fundamental. The government has demonstrated that it has no unified and offensive EU strategy. I don't expect a strategy for membership, because it's not this government's job, but I actually expect a government that has done it in its virtue that it's most important to stand outside – I almost get to exempt the foreign minister from this description of virtue – and who has said that the outsidership gives the most influence, should be able to describe this influence. I remember that the foreign minister's statement was not introduced as a diplomatic balancing art – I never heard it in Johan J. Jakobsen's formulations – but as a real account of the influence of outsiders and what opportunities it gives us that we would not otherwise have. – I have not heard a word about that either in the presentation or in this debate. What's interesting is that the government, when it travels to Brussels, first ask what the opposition will do, and when it comes back, ask what the opposition would it have done! Now I have heard from the Prime Minister that the talks with the EU had a higher level of precision than the Workers' Party's trade list. That's interesting. It means there's new secrets going on! [[Laughter]] So far in the debate these secrets have not been revealed, but it is possible that the level of precision through interpretation in the EU may be higher than in its own language at home. Or it's possible that you have things in your sleeve. The last thing I really care about is, and I hope that the dialogue will reveal what this level of precision has passed. The Minister of Foreign Affairs also found it necessary — perhaps not himself, but on behalf of the Government — to air the veto right. Then I would like to remind you of what his probably good colleague Kjartan Johannsson has said about the right to veto – he has experience from many sides and from an even smaller country: ‘Cutting down veto really means cancelling parts of the EEA Agreement.’ I think that's what the Foreign Minister is going to worry about. In any case, I would warn against using the right of veto as part of a party construction work, or, to put it another way, to comfort the national government of the Central Party – I don't think the right of veto is appropriate for that. There are significant national interests at stake, and I expect the Government to base it. Several have come into the euro area. Let me just say in the end that we have made it clear in conversations that we believe that there may be several ways to go in that dialogue. We can develop the EEA Agreement, and we can develop ERM-like agreements. But the government itself has said that there is a dialogue and that the level of precision has been very high. We are waiting to hear more about what the level of precision gives us of the possibilities of immersion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e1110	The establishment of economic and monetary union, EMU, as of 1 January of this year could be a major factor in the economic development of the participating countries. The smooth functioning of EMU requires greater coordination of economic policies in participating countries than at present and a high degree of adaptability in the labour market. It is only the future that can provide answers to how the new currency cooperation will bring about these challenges and pressures over time. It is also in Norway’s interest that EMU contributes to the stability and prosperity of economic development in these countries. The implementation of EMU is likely to have limited direct economic effects on Norway. One of the strongest direct effects will take the form of stronger competition for Norwegian companies. However, the Norwegian economy will be affected by economic developments in EMU countries by the fact that EMU countries are among Norway’s main trading partners. The impact on Norway of the establishment of EMU was fully discussed in the revised national budget in 1998. The evolution of the revised national budget does not justify significant changes in the assessments of the impact of EMU on the Norwegian economy. Since last summer, there has been considerable concern in the international financial markets, which have also affected Norway. Disturbations were triggered by the crisis in several Asian economies and were later exacerbated by the crisis in Russia's economy. For Norway and other commodity producing countries, there is also reason to believe that the fall in commodity prices has been a very important cause of the currency turmoil. It is in the interests of all countries to have stable conditions in the international financial markets. Each country must contribute to this by pursuing an economic policy that contributes to a balanced development of the real economy. The government’s financial arrangements for 1999 are therefore an important Norwegian contribution to the stability of the financial market. The recent increase in the krone price, despite a low oil price, and the Norwegian Bank's interest rate reduction of 1⁄2 percentage points yesterday, are thus positive developments. Today the krone price has increased further, and the money market rate has fallen by about 1⁄2 percentage points. In addition to a balanced macroeconomic policy in each country, international cooperation is also important to contribute to financial stability, for example: through the International Monetary Fund. The Government supports international efforts to achieve greater stability in financial markets. Last autumn, the size decided that the possibility of linking the Norwegian krona closer to the euro could be explored as part of a strategic dialogue with the EU. Norwegian monetary policy has been anchored in fixed or stable exchange rates throughout the post-war period. The experience gained in many European countries in the 1980s and early 1990s, including in Norway, was that stability in the exchange rate as a measure of monetary policy was useful for breaking out of a vicious circle of high inflation, high interest rates and constant devaluations. However, it turned out gradually that the system of a defined central rate and narrow oscillation margins around it were vulnerable to speculative attacks. Monetary market conditions made it necessary to leave this system on 10 December 1992. Both the central rate and the fluctuation margins fell away, and the crown became formally liquid. Even after 10 December 1992, the implementation of monetary policy in Norway stressed that the exchange rate should be stable against European currencies. On 6 May 1994 it became at kgl. the resolution provides for a new regulation for the price scheme of the crown. The regulation provides that the exercise of monetary policy by the Bank of Norway is to be directed towards stability in the value of the crown measured against European currencies. The regulation does not specify a central rate for the krona with associated fluctuation margins. The strength of the instruments in terms of interest rate changes and the purchase and sale of the currency that the bank can use to keep its price stable is limited. In the event of significant changes in the price, the instruments shall be set up with a view to gradually returning the exchange rate to the initial rental. The exchange rate regulation thus takes into account that the short-term exchange rate may differ from the initial rental, as the situation has recently been. The design of the current Norwegian system based on a stable exchange rate must be seen in the light of Norwegian experience from 1992 and the problems in many other countries in maintaining fixed-rate regimes over time. Increased capital movements make fixed-rate regimes less stable than before. It has therefore been widely agreed that it has not been appropriate to return to the regime that we had before 1992. In the view of the Government, EMU does not imply any significant change in the framework conditions for Norwegian monetary policy. The balances in the choice of stable or floating exchange rates will not be significantly different after the establishment of EMU. The government emphasises the continuity of monetary policy. The Government therefore stated in the revised national budget that the monetary policy guidelines on stability in the value of the krona measured against European currencies will continue even after EMU is established. This was widely acknowledged in the review of the revised national budget of the Grand Duchy. Our current exchange rate regime does not provide the basis for seeking mutual intervention cooperation with other countries. In particular, we cannot ask other countries for credit or cooperation to defend the price when it comes to fluctuation margins and their obligation to intervene for our own central bank. I have stated on several occasions that there is not enough basis today to believe that Norway can have the prospect of strong and committed exchange rate cooperation with the EU that could make a new fixed rate regime, i.e. a system with a declared central rate and associated oscillation margins, stable and resilient. The meeting of the Prime Minister and I with the President of the European Commission, Santer, and the meeting I had with the Commissioner responsible for economic and monetary issues, de Silguy, last week, does not provide a basis for changing this assessment. As from 1 January of this year, a credit agreement has been concluded between the Bank of Norway and the European Central Bank, the ECB, replacing the bilateral agreements of the Bank of Norway with the central banks of the EMU countries. I would like to stress that these are not mutual-aid contracts, but agreements that give the Bank of Norway the right – under certain conditions – to borrow currency in the central banks of other countries at market conditions, which the Bank of Norway can then use for the support purchase of crowns. The agreements specify that Norway’s Bank cannot contract as long as Norway has the current price regime and not a fixed rate regime, as we had until 10 December 1992. Although a new agreement will not be operational under the current exchange rate regime, the agreement has inter alia: The ECB is of some importance by providing continuity in Norway’s Bank’s formalised contacts with the monetary authorities of the EU. It is in Norway’s interest to have a stable monetary zone in Europe. A sound and responsible economic policy is central to achieving this objective. It is useful for us to discuss with different EU bodies how both Norway and the EU, among others. in the formulation of economic policies, can contribute to such monetary stability. Channels for dialogue between Norway and the EU in this area are already in place. The government attaches great importance to continuing and further developing this contact, both at political and official level. However, the dialogue will have as a clear starting point that Norwegian monetary policy is firm.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e1152	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e1155	Our finance minister is known for being a sober man, and on several occasions last autumn he has not failed to state that he has not been, as he himself said in the Stortinge, exactly over-optimistic when assessing what it could be possible to achieve in the field of monetary policy through contact with the EU. It may well be an expression of the soberness of the Minister of Finance and, hopefully, not a statement that he did not want to miss out on the possibilities at all. When the Prime Minister had completed his Euro trip, he found, as he does in his contribution to the Stortinget today, that support purchase agreements could not be achieved with our current monetary policy regime, which is a fact. However, from some teams today – especially from the top armsmen of the government parties here in the hall, the representatives of Steensnæs and Jakobsen – it has been made as if the Workers' Party were prepared to change our monetary policy. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of Finance if he can confirm that he has never been in doubt, which will surprise me if he has, that the Labour Party has not been changing its outlook on our monetary policy. So the prime minister said in an earlier change of words that he also saw the value of the sleeping contingency agreements that Norway's Bank has concluded with the Central Bank. The finance minister was a little more careful and said that he did not overlook their importance. My question is: does the Minister of Finance, as the Prime Minister did, see the possibility that this interface could lead to other forms of agreement that could benefit Norwegian monetary policy?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e1164	When I said before the Prime Minister and my trip to Brussels that I was not over-optimistic about what could be achieved, it was in view of what I understood was the aim of the Workers' Party and the Right to examine the possibility of a closer link with the euro, i.e. a support purchase agreement. It had to be interpreted as that was what the Workers' Party and the Right wanted. Although it was not very clear with respect to reporting, it was almost in the cards that it had to be what you were talking about. To me it was quite clear already before this trip that achieving such an agreement without going away from our current currency regime and going over to a fixed-rate regime would be impossible. That it is impossible, we got to those degrees underlined by our conversations down there. So Hill-Marta Solberg asks whether I've ever been in doubt about whether the Workers' Party wants to hold onto the current currency regime and not go back to a fixed-rate regime. I have been a little in doubt, because if you were absolutely sure that the Workers' Party would hold on to the current regime, it was a little strange to call on the Government to explore closer links with the euro, i.e. the possibilities of reaching a support purchase agreement. But I am very happy to note that the Workers' Party does not want to leave this regime, and that you do not want to go back to a fixed-price regime. Then it turns out that the Workers' Party and the Government agree on that point anyway. Then I agree that the further dialogue with the EU is useful whether it can lead to other forms of agreement is too early to say, as the Prime Minister was also concerned. At least it is useful to continue and further develop the dialogue already established between Norway and the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e1173	A prerequisite for achieving something in relation to the EU in areas of primary Norwegian interest is to know what you want. The more I listen to this debate, especially to the Minister of Finance, the more I doubt if the Government will at all. The most commonly used word in the dialogue with the EU in this area is that it is ‘indispensable’. I'm not sure that's the best way to get in touch with the EU. I disagree with the basic premise that this is impossible. I believe it is in Norwegian interest to find agreements that make it possible. I think it is possible to achieve ERM-like agreements, where we define the fluctuation margins and, if necessary, the trigger mechanisms. We don't have to copy agreements that exist. This has to be tailored. We can do that with an extension of the EEA Agreement, which is a contractual agency that exists. We can conclude credit and support purchase agreements, and/or we can define the triggering mechanisms. We can also reach out to economic policy consultation mechanisms based on the Growth and Stability Pact, which substantially harmonizes with Norwegian official policies for this and previous governments. I am so concrete now, because the Government will not be concrete. I am gradually puzzled as to what the further dialogue with the EU will consist of. If you have nothing to contribute to a dialogue, I don't think the EU is interested in such dialogue, other than out of politeness, and even it has its continental limitations. I would like to refer to what the representative, Mr Jagland, said with reference to the President of the Banking Association, that the importance of works of agreement, including in the monetary and economic fields, lies in the political commitments it imposes on us. I would like to add: it is also a significant symbolic feature of this by showing that we are close to the EU and do not want to have a currency of speculation. If the Government continues to tell us that it is impossible and at the same time continues to create an impression of disagreement between the Government and the majority of the population on monetary policy, the government may remain in the long run dangerous alone.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e1183	Before the Prime Minister and I took the trip to Brussels, we had discussions with fiscal spokespersons in the opposition parties, especially to find out what the Right and the Labour Party really wanted with these studies on a closer link to the euro. It did not get much clearer after those conversations, but I understood at least so much that it made sure to maintain a good dialogue, in itself had a positive effect. That is why we must not underestimate the importance, as I believe Per-Christian Foss has now done, of continuing and developing a dialogue with the EU, as I said in my speech. So Per-Kristian Foss says the government doesn't know what it wants. Well, we know what we want, but we also know the conditions under which we can discuss whether it is possible to achieve changes in today's system in relation to support purchase agreements, possibly extension of the credit agreements, which I understand the Workers' Party has assessed as a possible solution. Both solutions, both an extended credit agreement and any support purchase agreement – that is not to be misunderstood, after the conversations we have had – require a return to a fixed-price regime. I am very happy to hear that at least the Labour Party is so clearly telling us that it is out-of-date policy for Norway. Then the government will be able to point out that there is a majority in the Storting that believes that we should not leave today's regime. It might be interesting to hear from speakers later on if the Right has an equally clear position in terms of continuing today's regime and not going back to a fixed-rate regime. As a reference to the possibility of reaching an ERM 2-like agreement, it was of course aired in our discussions in Brussels, and it was clearly announced that we could not achieve as good an agreement as Denmark and Greece have obtained from their ERM-2 membership.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e1192	In the extension of the last line change, let me say that the entire debate on a Norwegian connection to the euro, from start to finish, has been a fog debate. It has been a fog debate in the sense that the Right and the Labour Party, who have imposed this trip on our Prime Minister and our Minister of Finance, gave a very unclear mandate. But it has also been very unclear what the sitting government would actually want. At the latest in a spontaneous Question Time a week and a half ago, the Minister of Finance could not even say that he had an independent view of how the Norwegian krone might be linked to the euro. In many ways, this has also been a completely pointless debate, for it has been a kind of sad reaction from the two large yes-parties in this Chamber, which, in retrospect, wants to join the EU, almost regardless of the economic price. And I experience it so that the center government in its heart has been against that kind of connection, but has not dared to say it highly of fear of new reproofs from the same parties. In any case, it is not in Norwegian interest to link us closer to the euro. More and more recent evidence has been provided since the first euro-enthusiasm, and some more sober economists have come to the fore and pointed out the great economic differences between our industrial structure and our price link and that of the EU. It's been important, and it's been necessary. But there has been one change that I could imagine Restad commented on, and where the government was very unclear in the first weeks after New Year's, that is, the restriction that has occurred in the weighing of our currency. In the past, it has been weighted against the various currencies in what was then the ecu area. Now we have a euro, with eleven of the EU Member States participating. So now our currency is weighted against the currency of the eleven, which means that, for example, England, and also our Nordic brothers, are not involved in the weighing of our currency. My questions to Restad are: What is the economic rationale for this when such a significant part of our foreign trade takes place with England, Sweden and Denmark? Will that not over time add greater instability to our currency?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e1205	It's going to be on Djupedal's account whether it's been fog talk or not. I can stretch as far as I can say that it has been a little unclear what the Right Party and the Workers' Party wanted to investigate the possibility of. So it sounds like we have no connection to the euro today at Djupedal. But that's wrong. The currency regulation states that the krona should be kept stable against European currencies, and in practice it has been shown that the Norwegian Bank has interpreted it as being measured against the euro. It is true that it will not be exactly the same as you had before the end of the year, as the Central Bank defined exactly the same wording as that relating to the unit of calculation ECU. In terms of how much difference this will make in practice, I don't think we're going to exaggerate here. If it will have any significant significance, only time can show. The currency regulation does not bind the central bank to measure the krona only against the euro. But it is up to the Central Bank to define the term ‘European currencies’, and at least to date they have defined it as the euro.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e1212	First of all, I would like to point out that, fortunately, there is a difference between economic theory and political objectives and political craftsmanship. In fact, I do not believe that what we are working with Europe today through various agreements, and not at all the contractual relations that are in place between the EU countries, would have been possible or exist at all if economic theory, and that alone, had been put into practice in all its thinking. We have pointed out from the Labour Party that moving forward in cooperation with the EU, including on monetary issues, is actually about political crafts. Then it's striking that the Minister of Finance keeps coming to the Stortinge to rule out what the majority of the Storinge wants. Does not the Minister of Finance also see that possible agreements between Norway and the EU in this area need to be negotiated in Brussels, and not between the Restad, Right and Workers' Party in the Grand Chamber? The Minister of Finance cannot ignore that point and say: you do not have the answers, so there are no solutions either. The solution is to be found by performing a political craft, and that is to be done with the partners. The opposition has actually given the Government and Restad reasonable free hands, and I think that Restad should be grateful for that. I think he should accept the liberal starting point he has when he is going to continue this dialogue. Finally, my specific question is: is it that the bulk of the population can feel confident that the Minister of Finance will continue to work on this dialogue with the aim of trying to reach a possible tailor-made agreement for Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e1221	As I said in my speech, it is also in Norway's interest to have the most stability possible around the currency markets. To the extent that it is possible to obtain agreements that can contribute to it, the Government shall contribute to this. That such agreements must be negotiated is a matter of course. But I also think it is obvious that there is no doubt about Norwegian monetary policy. It will in itself be harmful to the Norwegian economy. The premises must be clear. We already made it clear in the conversations we had in Brussels that it cannot be talked about leaving today's regime in favour of a fixed-rate regime. As a clear premise, of course, in the further dialogue with the EU, we will examine whether there can be opportunities for other forms of cooperation that contribute to greater stability in the currency markets. It's nothing but what I've been trying to express. I find it useless to continue a debate on the extension of credit agreements or the establishment of aid purchase agreements as long as this is conditional on a return to a fixed-price regime. And now, even today's Workers' Party has declared that they're not prepared for us to do, so it's a clear majority who want to continue today's regime. Then I would have hoped – and the hope is still there, because there are several from the Right who will have the floor later in the debate – that you could also get an equally clear insurance from the Right, so that any doubt that Norwegian monetary policy is firm can be removed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e1233	I didn't think it was very common to refer to conversations from the Prime Minister's office or the Minister of Finance's office, but since the Minister of Finance has opened it, I would like to add that one of his conclusions from conversations where Hill-Marta Solberg and I were present was that we – at least the Right and the Workers' Party – had a fairly common view on the basis of the exchange rate on what it is possible to achieve in relation to the European Union. It's a conclusion that, in this context, it might have been so important to refer to something first. I still believe that dialogue is important. But I have the impression that something needs to be achieved in a dialogue, you have to be more concerned with what is possible than with what is impossible – I understand that you can give up in relation to this government on this issue. The Minister of Finance has called for support for monetary policy. The right has tried to express itself on several occasions, in large-scale papers as in debates. But it is not easy to be stuck to something that is both unclear and liquid. This government's conduct of its monetary policy has not been marked by either firmness or clarity, particularly in a lack of clarity. Only in today's debate have more concepts been used. In its presentation, the Minister for Foreign Affairs used the term ‘fixed-rate regime’ on Norwegian foreign exchange policy. In today’s debate, Einar Steensnæs uses the term ‘flexible fixed rate policy’. So that's the same policy they're talking about. So today, the Minister of Finance contributes further to ambiguity and ineffectiveness by telling the following: what to measure the firmness or stability in relation to is also liquid, because it can be both the euro, as the Bank of Norway has defined, or an average of European currencies where the euro is important, but not the only one. What the Minister of Finance is now asking for is therefore support for flexibility in relation to a moveable objective. Then it's not easy to be an opposition. We're going to do ours!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e1242	This is closely linked to defence policy. Then the next speaker is Grete Knudsen – no, it's State Council Restad who probably should answer the challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e1247	I guess it's best that I try to answer. I think I'm going to ignore the rhetoric that Per-Kristian Foss is well known for, and rather take on what I see as positive, namely that the Right now also declares that they support today's monetary policy regime in Norway, that it's not relevant for the Right to return to the fixed rate regime – that's how I understood Per-Kristian Foss. I choose from this to conclude that it is also not appropriate for the Right to dwell any longer on the possibility of extending credit agreements or establishing aid purchase agreements, because the prerequisite for this is to leave today's regime and go back to the fixed rate regime that we had before 10 December 1992. Then I think we have come very far in this debate. I am pleased that these clarifications have now come. Then I would like to say the same to Per-Christian Foss, as I said to Hill-Marta Solberg, that in the further dialogue with the European Union, we will of course examine what other options might be available to ensure stability in the currency markets.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e1261	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e1264	‘Norway makes sense to take it easy and see where the EU is going’, wrote a visiting Vice-President in Dagbladet the other day, while the Prime Minister says the opposite, namely that the Government is not sitting on the fence. But whether we like it or not, integration goes hand in hand with the European Union and the relationship with Europe/Eastern and Central Europe. The same applies to the EU's relationship with different other regions. We must note that even in this context we can become more isolated. This is probably not because the EU is against us. It simply follows that we are not part of their political, daily networks. That's why we have to use forces to keep ourselves informed, at the same time as we want to do something about the facts, which in turn means that we can pursue an active policy. So we have to increase our commitment, so that we can quickly recover information, otherwise we're going to get involved in matters of great importance to us. At the same time, we must recognise that the EEA Agreement, however important it may be to us, is hardly followed by the same enthusiasm from the European Union. It is also true, if we are honest, that Norway has a very good agreement without a quite similar counterpart. It's probably not just Spain that means it. The EU capitals also leave all the practicalities of the EEA Agreement to the Brussels bureaucrats. That's why we have to provide the dynamics where we see a development we want to contribute to. We note that what was an objective within the European Union is now becoming a practical policy. Euros and increasingly closer cooperation on employment are examples of tools in this cooperation. In the area of common foreign and security policy it is late, but there are increasingly closer forms of cooperation in the cards, with the political implications it will have for us. I agree with those who commend Norway’s OSCE Presidency, but for obvious reasons, the level of interest in Norway in the OSCE context will also be weakened as the Presidency comes to a distance. Other areas where we consider ourselves interesting are our relationship with the north, with energy, with shipping and with fish. This makes more specific demands today than in the past for a fully active action by exploiting areas where we are interesting in a broader foreign and trade policy context. This requires a much more systematic, deep-seated, but also country-wide effort. We need to identify the area in which each EU country can have an interest in us. Then we can get more attention and actively connect to their networks. In that case, efforts must also be put into the capitals, not least for example. in relation to what has been raised today by the Minister of Finance in relation to the euro. Much of the work currently being done in vis-à-vis third countries is being done in the capitals, not least in Germany and France. It does not happen in Brussels. Whether it makes sense in this situation to create uncertainty about the gas directive, on the food and baby foods and patent directive, areas where the EU side is far from complete its work and waiting for Norway, the Minister for Foreign Affairs must respond. Being puffed up to adopt a position on Europol, which the Foreign Minister only mentioned very superficially in his statement, and which the Prime Minister did not at all address in Brussels, clearly shows that the Government is waiting for at a time when a new organisation, Europol, is taking shape. The organisation shall be in place by 1 April and will affect Norway. We're not asking, as the Prime Minister seems to experience, about expert groups, we're asking what form of association the government is aiming for and with what commitment. The answer given today, that there will be a message during the year, is not good enough. The Labour Party supports a foreign and trade policy that is driven not only by its own interests but also by the sense of responsibility for our own continent and international solidarity. It will not only be about the ability to observe, analyse and understand what is happening, but about the ability to be active in processes and keep all opportunities open for new strategies and active action. With the changes taking place in Europe, all responsible parties must keep all opportunities open, and, after the State Council, Restad's statements today, it is clear that one also needs a concrete list of actions from a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e1287	With increased inter-country dependence and increasing internationalisation of economic activity, there is an increasing need to fill the international space with policy-defined rules of play. A stable and non-discriminatory international code of economic activity is not least important for small countries and small enterprises. Norway’s cooperation with the EU and EU countries is fundamental in such an image. The EU is the dominant market for Norwegian exports and outsourcing. Norwegian trade with the EU is currently on the top of 70 p.m. of our total foreign trade. The EEA Agreement integrates Norway and Norway into the single European internal market. This has clearly contributed to the stable and good development of the Norwegian economy in recent years. The EEA Agreement has been found to adequately address Norwegian interests. At the same time, EEA cooperation still needs to be developed in line with changes in the EU in order to remain a good form of association. In this context, I would like to stress that Norway is one of the EEA countries that has become the most involved in implementing the single market legislation. Compared to the EU average, Norway is the main source of transposition of adopted directives into national law. Towards the end of 1998 was 98.2 pst. of the Directives notified in whole or in part of Norwegian laws, regulations and administrative provisions. 96 pst. the Directives were introduced in Norway at the same time. The Government will continue its efforts to secure and further develop the agreement by actively participating in the drafting of new legislation and – which may be most important now – in improving the efficiency of the implementation of the internal market in EU countries. The dynamic development of the EEA Agreement is essential in order to ensure a level playing field for Norwegian enterprises with their competitors in the internal market. The government will work to strengthen information, transparency and debate on current EEA work. This was underlined by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his presentation. This is important in order to secure the Government of the People's Republic and a popular commitment to such an important agreement for Norway. It is also important to ensure the effective functioning of the agreement. As Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, I would like to underline the importance of providing business and working life with user-friendly channels for information, problem solving and guidance on EEA-related issues affecting business. The Euro Info Centres network – EIC – in Norway is an example of such a channel that already accepts and deals with requests from enterprises experiencing problems in the EEA Agreement. Other key instruments for the Government in this context will be the information service Narvikphones, Business information on the Internet, BEDIN, and ‘Meeting place Europe’. This work will be continued by the Government, paying particular attention to the fact that the information will be easily accessible and the information channels will be known. In line with technological developments, such information needs to be more developed as Internet-based solutions. Through the EEA Agreement, we participate in a number of EU programmes and projects. The most important of these are research programmes. Participation in EU research programmes, such as the Fifth Framework Programme of the EU, is a key element of the overall Norwegian research effort, as well as enabling important networking for Norwegian business. In this context, the Government has actively presented Norwegian interests, so that the information and arrangements of the Framework Programme are as consistent as possible with our business interests. Experience from previous cooperation shows that Norwegian research environments are of high quality and that project applications with Norwegian participation are largely passed on. In order to increase the level of success, interaction between EU and national programmes is important and necessary. Changes in the EU and Europe are constantly facing new challenges in Norway. Further development of EU economic cooperation will mean a great deal for Norwegian business. As Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, I would like to point out that, to the extent that economic and monetary union, EMU, leads to increased growth for the participating countries, it will provide positive impetus for Norwegian business and Norwegian economy in general. Imported goods can be cheaper and the growth of our main export market for the mainland economy could increase. Nevertheless, it is worth noting that while Norwegian industry gains in terms of lower trading costs, the gains will not be as high as those of the business community located in the currency zone. It can create a competitive disadvantage. On the other hand, if EMU contributes to the deepening and further development of the internal market, Norwegian business will be able to gain new market opportunities and efficiency gains. Another major challenge for the EU is eastward enlargement. Enlargement also means a geographical extension of the EEA territory. From the Norwegian side, it is underlined to the EU side that it will be in the interest of all parties that the EEA/EFTA countries are fully and regularly informed about the enlargement process, in particular on transitional arrangements in relation to the internal market, after the start of negotiations. In particular, it will be important to maintain the benefits of the free trade agreement with EFTA and the candidate countries to the EU today, in particular with regard to fish and fish products. The government will work to ensure that the enlargement of the EU and the EEA does not entail restrictions, but rather to extend the cooperation opportunities offered by today’s agreements for Norwegian business. Here, consultations with the EU and enhanced dialogue with the candidate countries will be central. Developments in Europe face new challenges both in the EU and Norway. The EEA Agreement and our cooperation with EU countries must continue to be developed in order to safeguard Norwegian interests. Both the establishment of economic and monetary union and the enlargement of the EU to the east will inevitably focus EU interests on things other than the functioning of the EEA Agreement. One of our major challenges is therefore likely to ensure that our interests are heard, so that authorities at all levels in the EU countries, and not just in the institutions of Brussels, are equal to the internal market throughout the EEA. For this purpose, the Government will use both the formal and informal channels available. In this respect, and in order to ensure that the EEA Agreement works for the best of Norwegian business, we are completely dependent on a close and ongoing dialogue with individual enterprises and business organisations. This we will seek to strengthen in the future, also in the context of the Government's work on the announced big message on European policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e1310	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e1313	It was reassuring to hear the Minister of Industry’s comments in relation to the crucial importance he attaches to the development of business in the EEA Agreement. I think it fits well into the range of other issues – that is the statement made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and also the current EEA issues dealt with by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the relevant expert councils. I think it's very much in contrast to what the third government party expresses, when, for example. The representative Jakobsen on several occasions has stressed that there is so much difference between having a no-government to sit and deal with these EEA issues. For what has happened, and for which I now commend – not least to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the ongoing treatment he stands for – is that on the point by point in relation to the EEA directives, it goes exactly as the Workers' Party said when we had government, and we were criticized for it then. Examples are food make-up directives, baby food additives, etc., even if some members of the Government were very far behind it. My question to Sponheim is whether he agrees with what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his statement, or whether he, otherwise, agrees with Jakobsen, who has the impression that you now have a completely different treatment of EEA matters than what you would have had with a workers' party government. Can the Minister of Industry give me some concrete examples of the fact that, in matters relating to EU relations, the EEA Agreement has reached a different conclusion with this government than would have been done with the previous government?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e1322	I could have answered quite briefly this line and given an answer that many people have given in such contexts, that hypothetical questions I'm not answering. But let me still go into a dialogue with the replicator. I think it is important to stress that this is a no-regiering, as the replicator said, in relation to membership issues, but it is a yes-regiering in relation to the EEA Agreement. And it is clearly stated in the political basis of the Government, through the Declaration of Adults, that the Government is on the ground of the EEA Agreement. It's a dynamic appointment. And I have to say that for me personally, who had a very positive commitment to the EEA Agreement when it was discussed and treated, it is a pleasure to be able to sit and participate in a government where one can base the referendum result and work actively to further develop the EEA Agreement for the benefit of free trade that strengthens Norwegian businesses and helps create jobs. So I have to say that criticism that is going to be difficult and that this government is managing the EU policies of other parties is completely incomprehensible to me. I experience sitting in a government that has just the relationship with the EU that I see as the most optimal, and that distinguishes the economic need from the political concern by government on the basis of an EEA agreement and standing firm on the basis of the referendum result, and as I experience it, everyone in this debate has expressed their agreement that it should be done. It must then be allowed – when you have the form of connection that is the most optimal and the best for the country – to be offensive and be satisfied with such a situation. I think it is good for Norwegian companies that we are able to develop the EEA Agreement in the areas where Norwegian businesses, Norwegian production and Norwegian jobs enjoy it. Then it is difficult for me to have any idea of what positions another government would have had and how another government would have dealt with the questions that this government is dealing with in the reign of this government. It's going to be too hypothetical.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e1331	For four to five weeks small businesses in Norway have had to deal with a single European currency. It is claimed that one of the consequences is that the euro creates greater instability and that the krone price will fluctuate more than in the past. Large enterprises and large groups can be sure of this. For small enterprises, this is not the case and some small enterprises and, insofar as medium-sized enterprises have also notified back some of the related problems. Small businesses have even greater difficulty in investing internationally than was the case in the past. One solution, of course, can be, as has also been claimed by several teams, a closer link with the euro. But until that happens, I assume that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Council of State have an active attitude to this. I would like to ask myself what strategies the Minister for Enterprise has to address the problems that small and medium-sized enterprises in Norway have reported back, and I believe that the Council of State has also been notified.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e1338	At least I can confirm to the replicator that I also perceive that very many small companies feel a certain uncertainty as to what it represents by changing framework conditions. I guess that's not the basis for saying that you've had some experience yet and can say that you've had a slightly more difficult situation. But it is clear that such a profound change represents an uncertainty as to what the consequences will be. It is in the nature of every human being and every business to ask yourself how to secure one's future and get changed framework conditions. I believe that as you start to reap experiences, you will experience that things may turn out to be easier, even for Norwegian businesses. As long as we are not EU members – and that is how I hope it will be able to stay for a long time, and then we have crowns in Norway – we will experience that we can relate largely to one currency outside anyway, because 70 pst. of our export markets use euro. For small businesses, maybe that percentage will be even higher. We will now be able to relate to one currency, at least on the day the nearest neighbouring country would also be part of this euro-cooperation. It must obviously be an easier situation than having to deal with many currencies. It is true that for all of us, not least for a small business owner who has to do a lot of things, and who has markets in many countries, it is difficult to follow exchange rate fluctuations between many different currencies. Now you might be able to relate to one currency and let go – as we have to do today – of converting values into dollars before you understand the real value. Now one will be so used to using one foreign currency, namely the euro, that one can understand substance values through one currency, which will make it easier for small businesses to handle this. I actually only see opportunities here, and I can assure you that the Ministry of Economic Affairs will follow this development very closely and look at what we can contribute from the Norwegian side to ensure that this will be good for Norwegian companies.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e1347	The state council says we have a no-regier. Nevertheless, we have a government that has adapted Norway to the EU more than I think any other government constellation had done, because then enough political noise and resistance had become significantly greater – possibly also the result differently and better, in my view. Now we, who are opponents of EU membership, have been able to have a freedom of action outside. This is when we call for the political content of what it is this no-government has used its government power to bring about a different policy that Norway is serving, as it is not linked to the EU as a member of the Union. I could therefore imagine asking the Council of State if he could refer to one example where this government has used its freedom of action, perhaps especially in the field of the Minister of Industry. I see the Minister of Industry as the foremost market liberalist figure within the Government. I have, among other things: when dealing with ownership and other business policy issues, perceived that the policy that the Minister of Industry wants to pursue is a fiscal policy that would be the same as we would experience if we adapted to the euro. I would also like to ask the Council of State if he can explain the difference in the adaptation strategy of the Council of State, what that would mean for the level of taxation in Norway, for example. for enterprises, and the consequence of a euro-adaptation or EU membership. From my point of view, I cannot see that the Council of State has explained such a difference. Or maybe the Council of State can explain what he's going to use this alienation to, for the sake of Norway, because I've heard today again that he actually believes that we have a no-government, and that we should, and that's good for Norway. Now we have to get a concrete answer on the table about what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e1358	We have a no-regovernment, but we also have a government that governs on the basis of the EEA Agreement. I guess that's where that's where the thing that had to separate the perception I needed, and the points of view that the replicator here expresses. And then the government is again criticized for adapting to the EU more quickly. What are we doing? Well, we're using the EEA agreement that we're in favour of. We are good, tidy and fast in Norway to include EEA legislation in Norwegian legislation. If that is what the criticism is about, this is actually a debate for and against the EEA Agreement. It would have been in itself a possible debate to take, but that is what we are really doing. If we are in favour of the EEA Agreement – as this government is, and as I have been enthusiastic about it all the time – then it must be our job to be quick and good at implementing this legislation in Norwegian law, thus creating opportunities for equal competition and equivalence for Norwegian companies in relation to companies they compete with within the EU area. This is an adaptation strategy within the EEA Agreement that I would like to use many lines to defend. Let me stress that Norway is a country that has a wealth of those degrees that is built on the fact that we are able to sell our products abroad, and the EU is the most important market. There is hardly any country in Europe that is as dependent on having markets outside its borders, such as Norway. For over 50 pst. Of our value creation, we find markets outside Norway. We're a small country, and that's why we're so dependent on having a good framework where this works. Norwegian tax policy is not within the EEA Agreement. This means that we can pursue an autonomous tax policy, but still in a way that does not weaken the competitiveness of Norwegian companies. It will be based on our own decisions – decisions taken in this Chamber and not delivered by other decision-making bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e1367	The scheduled time for the morning meeting is now at hand. The President will propose that this morning’s meeting continue until the change of line is over – and considers it to be a welcome one.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e1370	In his previous reply to me, the Minister of Industry stressed that we now have a government that says no to membership on the basis of the referendum, but that is strong for the EEA Agreement and for developing it and other intergovernmental relations with EU countries, given the importance it had for, among other things, – which he had in his last reply. business. Catchy beautiful! We who sat in the previous government could say exactly the same thing. We said no to membership on the basis of a referendum that we respected, but we wanted to develop our relationship with the EU countries as best we can. Yes, that part of what Sponheim said, could have been a quote from the Workers' Party program, and it's absolutely beautiful! What I really asked for was whether Sponheim could show me examples of a difference in what the so-called no-government has come up with from conclusions, and what the previous government would come up with – to make it less hypothetical: in the cases where it was up to a conclusion when the central parties entered the government offices. I note that Sponheim cannot give examples of this either, and then I just have to say that when the Foreign Minister earlier pointed out that there is a wind of change over Europe, it is more true in the Norwegian Government than anywhere else in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e1377	In the line preceding this line from Dag Terje Andersen, I was accused by SVs Andersen of being the most market liberalist in the Government, while the Workers' Party Andersen believes that what I say could stand in the Workers' Party's program, at least the quotations that the other Andersen would probably think were the most market liberalist views in the Government. That's it! I would like to stress, since it is constantly repeated with the wind of change when governments change, that these views on the EEA Agreement and the belief in the importance of the EEA Agreement in relation to an EU membership that combines the economic necessity with the political concern, I have in fact argued many times from this pulpit in recent years. There have been no changes in my reasoning about this relationship. Apart from the fact that today I have the joy of sitting in government and not sitting alone and being in a spider's opposition, I have actually been doing the same thing all along. It is a pleasure to be able to conduct a policy that is actually the optimal adaptation to the EU – which I actually want, and which I want on behalf of my party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28.ana.ud825e1385	Several have not asked for the word in reply, and this morning's meeting is over.
