ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e27	It called the alternate of the Hordaland County, Thorbjørn Merkesdal, has a teke seat. The representative, Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e35	I hereby present a Document No. Eight proposals on behalf of Jan Simonsen and myself, which are based on the fact that the Storting asks the Government to give priority to the presentation of a bill that guarantees workers both the right to be organised and the right not to be organised.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e40	The proposal will be dealt with in the manner set out in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e59	On Monday the Storting received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government will meet for oral Question Time: Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik Council of State Jon Lilletun Council of State Guro Fjellanger The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral Question Time. Representatives who, in addition to the pre-announcers, would like to ask their main questions will be asked to stand up. - Thank you. Then we start with the first main questions, from the representative Torbjørn Jagland.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e78	I have a question for the Prime Minister. Combating drugs must be a major task because it also affects innocents in the form of violence and crime. In the spring of 1997, the Labour Party Government informed Stortinget that it would negotiate full membership of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction. The whole Storting ended up about this. The Official Journal of Bergen has this week revealed that the Government has removed this matter. State councillor Meltveit Kleppa in the Ministry of Social Affairs says to Bergen's Official Journal that she has informed the government that this matter should not be given priority, and that she is skeptical about membership. I would like to ask the Prime Minister why this has happened and why the Stortinget was not informed about this in the context of the European Declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e89	It is not right that the government has put the matter away. The fight against the drug problem is important both nationally and internationally, and the Government is prepared to participate in international cooperation in this respect both under the auspices of the United Nations and in relation to the European Centre, as the representative of Jagland pointed out. Norway has participated as an observer after the Government took its initiative in 1994. Discussions between Norway and the EU have been ongoing on any form of association. In the spring of 1997, the Stortinget was informed about this. There has been nothing new to report since then because one has not reached a clarification with the EU, among others. a. because the EU has not clarified its view of Norway’s relationship with this centre. Norway wants primarily a link with the Centre based in and within the EEA Agreement, which is the natural one and for Norway the most favourable form of association. If the EU does not accept this – we are waiting for an answer to this – Norway will assess whether it is possible to have a different form of connection to this centre. There is no reason to suspect this government that it would not actively participate in international cooperation even in relation to the EU in the fight against drug abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e98	Then I will refer to what the government councillor Meltveit Kleppa himself says: "I gave enough notice to the civil service that this matter should not be given high priority." I think we need to examine whether the EU is responsible for not having progressed in this matter, as the Prime Minister is now trying to give the impression. It is the opposite impression created by the articles in the Official Journal of Bergen. And besides, there's a statement there, which is anonymous, but I have to ask if this is what's going on, what a government source says to Bergen's Official Journal: ‘It’s about making it look like we’re active in relation to the EU, even if we’re not.’ I wonder if you have just tried to postpone and postpone and not get the matter on the agenda. However, it is also important to clarify why the Stortinget was not informed about this relationship – that it was skeptical, that it had been announced that this was not a priority – in the context of the European report in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e113	In fact, I answered that question in my previous post, namely that it was not new to report after this was reported in the 1997 drug report. The government has not removed the matter, the government has not deprived it, and it surprises me that the representative Jagland is based on anonymous sources when he asks a question to the Prime Minister. We do not, as in European policy, pursue an active European policy based on the 1994 referendum, which, as we know, involves intergovernmental cooperation in the field of international law. It has been explained by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in a comprehensive presentation to the Stortinget. It was widely accepted here in the debate. With regard to this interview, I am not to blame for journalists. I happen to know, however, that when she read this interview, the Council of State wanted to change the text, which was too late to get. The journalist, as I know, is sorry, but I'm not going to go into that any further. I've explained the government's vision. We want cooperation with this European Centre.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e120	There will be follow-up questions – Haakon Blankenburg.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e123	It's not like there's anonymous sources, it's about government councillor Meltveit Kleppa, which Igland was in. Perhaps Meltveit Kleppa is quoted unpresist, but we have not got the right which Meltveit Kleppa actually means, and thus it says as it is quoted in Bergen's Official Journal: "I gave enough notice to the civil service that this matter should not be given high priority." And we see that the State Secretary of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health today in the same newspaper is trying to give the impression that there has been a lot of work from the Government to participate in European cooperation. There is no attempt to correct the possible misquote from the Council of State, so it says so. And so we must be able to ask if it is such that the Government has ambition for Norway to participate fully in European work on drugs, and whether the Government will come back to the Storting with a thorough review of this, so that we know what the Government actually means.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e133	The representative, Jagland, actually referred to an anonymous source in the Official Journal of Bergen, and I commented on it. I do not think that is a way of conducting the debate. When it comes to the opinion of the State Council, Meltveit Kleppa, it is the one I have expressed. That's the government's position. We want active cooperation with this centre. The EU has not yet sent us – as I know – a formal answer on what form of association we can get. There has been no change in the attitude of the Norwegian Government towards this after the government change. We want primarily a link within the EEA Agreement. If the EU answers that it is not possible, as we have indications that the answer may be, we will consider the question of getting a different form of association, because we want to have a link with the work of this centre. This centre collects and distributes statistical material on drugs. We're not going to underestimate the significance of that. Nor should we overestimate the significance of this. We are also involved in other international cooperation to combat the drug problem, including: through the UN.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e141	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e144	My question is actually in the same area, because I was as alarmed as Thorbjørn Jagland by what was in Bergen's Official Journal. I think it is very serious, and therefore I will still address a question to the Prime Minister. I did not fully grasp the ambitions of the Prime Minister for this. It is possible that full membership of this cooperation can be achieved. And then the question is, Is full membership the ambition, or is it not? And in the case of nothing happening, it should also be noted that the Centre has just raised questions about where in all days it has been of the Norwegian response. And so the question is, is it so certain that you've been as active as the Prime Minister is now trying to give the impression?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e151	I have not tried to give the impression of anything, I have given actual information. The attitude to this has not changed with the government change. The government has sought to clarify the EU's position on our form of association. It has been our opinion that it should take place under the EEA Agreement. As far as I know, there has not been any change in relation to the previous government at that point either. If the answer from the EU is that it is not possible, we must seek a different form of association, including: the alternative that Jan Petersen refers to. In addition, I would like to inform you that Norway is actively participating in the EU’s drug prevention programme, a sub-programme of the EU’s public health initiative. Trying to give the impression that the Government will not give priority to the fight against drug abuse in these contexts is a totally wrong presentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e160	I get to approach the question from another side since the Prime Minister was not near the concept of 'full participation'. Does the Prime Minister now think that we should participate as fully as possible in this centre, or does he think that it is a reduced participation that is the objective?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e165	I was close to the concept of ‘full participation’ when I said that if we do not get participation in the EEA Agreement – which I thought was a broad political agreement that we should apply for – we need to consider other alternatives, including: the representative referred to by Jan Petersen, and that is full participation, if possible. I believe that the reasons we want this within the EEA Agreement are quite obvious. It has, among other things, to deal with economic mechanisms. I don't have to say more about this from the pulpit right now. I guess there's no disagreement that we're going to seek that form of connection. Can’t – and, as I know, we haven’t received a response from the EU yet – we need to seek a different form of association.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e170	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e173	I have a question for the Prime Minister. As far as I've had experience, since 1915 we've had a system where local government appoints people to sit in jurors and co-judges. And it is natural, and it has been a firm practice, at least throughout the post-war period, that when local government appoints such, it appoints from its own membership lists in the parties, its own trust elected – a firm practice that has thus far been entirely normal. This has now been put on the agenda, together with any new rules for who will be inhabile to participate as co-judges and jury members. Will the Prime Minister take the initiative to ensure that the current judicial committee, led by Carsten Smith, is enlarged so that they can look at the system for the appointment of judges and jury members, including whether there is also a need for more adapted stability rules than the situation in 1915?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e182	I note that there has been an interesting public debate on this issue, and I agree with the representative Hagen that there is reason to review the legislation and the appointment procedures here. I see absolutely that a relevant context to address it in might be the reduced Carsten Smith committee, which looks at the situation of the courts. So I want to take that proposal back and discuss it with the Minister of Justice, and I think it's a good idea. Otherwise, I would like to add that I see clearly objectionable aspects of the arrangement that you have. What I think is the most important reason to debate is that representatives of the national parliament, which is our legislative assembly, should be able to sit as jury members or co-judges. It can create an impression of a combination of two state institutions that, at my discretion, should not take place. So since the representative Hagen perhaps for natural reasons did not mention it, I would point out that it seems to me that it is the most apprehensive of today's practice.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e189	I have no problem agreeing with the Prime Minister, but I do not have the same suspicion that the representatives of big business are not able to make a clear distinction between their roles. One thing is to meet as an individual, another thing is to meet as a representative of a political party, and I think most people in this room actually get the difference. So far, this system has been, without any criticism from any team in the past. A large number of people have been suspected who have carried out a civil duty in the best possible way, seen with their eyes, and the criticism that has arisen comes in the case at a relatively late stage. That's the system that should be looked at. I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether he will help to ensure, within such a mandate, that sections 127, 128 and 326 of the Criminal Code can be considered sufficient to prevent anyone from applying for a clearly unacceptable influence on judges and trying to lower the threshold in order to dismiss a guilty decision?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e196	With regard to all these paragraphs that were mentioned in the penal code, I don't have them in front of me or present in my head to be able to comment on them in detail. But I agree with Mr Hagen that one must avoid a practice where, for example. political parties — or their women’s movement — seek to influence the judges in a particular direction. I expect that is the debated tipbook from the Women's Movement of the Workers' Party representative Hagen here had in mind. I have recorded that the Supreme Justice judge has pronounced himself very strongly to him to be about the practice of the Women's Movement of the Workers' Party here, and there I think the Supreme Justice absolutely has a point. In the case of suspicions against depositors who had to be co-judges or jury members, I have no reason to suspect anyone. But I think the principle itself is unfortunate, because the Storting is, after all, our legislative authority, and I don't think representatives from there should be in the judiciary. It can create an unnecessary suspicion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e203	Sylvia Brustad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e207	First of all, I strongly reject the fact that the Women's Movement of the Labour Party has sought to influence the judges in some cases. I hope that the Prime Minister, in contrast to some others who have expressed their views on this matter, has actually read our recommendation, which was made in 1996. Document 2 on TV2 this week was an interview from last year, which was wasted together with another important debate, namely on the participation of politicians in the jury in general. I think the tip book is upholstered. It consists of tips for schooling people, practical tips on how a court case is going on, and then there are some numbers and facts in relation to rape cases that we're concerned with. This is something other than that we're going to get in and judge, as some have made it. We have received many enquiries from women around the country who want to have more knowledge about and more education in being a mercenary. We've taken that seriously. When women have asked the court for more information, they have been told that it is their own responsibility to contribute to it. I'd like to ask the Prime Minister if he doesn't think it's important that those on the jury are schooled for it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e218	It's impossible to answer no to such a question. Of course, it is an advantage that those sitting there are best educated for the task they have undertaken. The question is how it happens, whether it can happen in a way that could affect their exercise of the duties they assume. I hope at least that the representative of Brustad thinks there is reason to think that the country's Supreme Justice, which is usually very low and nuanced, went out with such a sharp statement as he made. It's also registered that some defense lawyers have done the same thing. In addition to that, I will not interfere with this debate, for this is one thing; another is that of appointing local government representatives and local politicians in juries and as co-judges, and a third is the question of big business representatives, members of the country's legislative authority, should sit in a judicial authority. The last thing I think for my part is the most fundamentally objectionable. We need a debate on this, and it may well be that the framework for the debate suggested by Mr Hagen will be appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e225	No pay - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e228	It has emerged from the media's petitions on the appointment of Legislators that there are not only some representatives of the legislative authority on the lists, but also a Council of State. So for safety reasons, I would like to ask the Prime Minister to confirm that his principle view of the relationship between the legislature and the judicial authority also includes the relationship between the judicial authority and the executive authority.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e233	Yes, of course, it is an equally clear principle to distinguish between the two authorities – the judge and the performer. I'm not familiar with the information that the representative for pay now gives, but if it's right, it's basically just as wrong. I suppose as a matter of course that he would never think of meeting as a fellow judge or jury member at the time he is a state councillor – but in any case this should not be done for reasons of principle.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e238	Astrid Marie Nistad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e241	My question to the Prime Minister in connection with this goes against the background of the paper. How does he know about this paper on schooling that has gone out of women's movement? What I know is that this paper is written by lawyers. It has been developed with the background that it should be able to school. Based on the answer he gave to the representative Brustad, I wonder if he has read the booklet or whether he is based on anonymous sources when he could answer so sovereignly in relation to the fact that this is not a schooling booklet.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e246	I'm not based on anonymous sources, but I'm based on the media's mention of this, which has also reproduced things from the paper. But I'm not going into a detailed debate on the paper. I have recorded that the country's Supreme Justice has pronounced itself strongly on it. I'm counting on that to give cause for reflection. In addition to that, I have not intended to refer myself to any judge over this paper, nor do I have any background for it, nor any interest in it. A schooling of jury members and co-judges is excellent. I just want to say in general, without considering the booklet, that it has to happen in a way that does not affect their performance of the work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e251	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e254	I want to ask questions to the Prime Minister. From a number of quarters, values are set on the agenda, and that is necessary. But perhaps the most important job is to make a change in how our society treats minorities and inequalities – there, as a society, we have no good history. Now a shocking investigation shows that one in four young homosexuals have tried to take their own lives. The reasons may be many, but as a society we cannot escape the fact that they themselves state that they have felt unwanted and have developed a negative self-image. My question to the Prime Minister is: How will the Government clean up, so that we as society can appear as both acceptable, human and not least decent?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e265	I agree with the representative Grete Knudsen that this report given to the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs is alarming. In addition to the frightening information on suicide attempts, the report also shows that many homosexuals and lesbians are struggling with mental problems, major drug problems have been identified, and many are exposed to violence and threats. The government takes this report seriously. We want to help reduce these problems in different ways. The Minister for Children and Family Affairs has therefore called the National Association for Lesbian and Homofil Liberation to a meeting in the Department to discuss with the Association a follow-up to the report and what can be done on different teams to reduce this problem. I think, for example, that the school system is so important, because there we all reach young people.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e273	I thank the Prime Minister for the answer. It's positive that a meeting will be held, but the most important thing, I think, is that society can now contribute, is to say that one should actively do something both vis-à-vis the individual and also through campaigns either in schools, health or children's and youth organisations, that an active person from society says that here we have actually made a mistake, we say sorry. It's not too late to change the perception, to which society also owes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e280	I agree that something should be done actively in all the contexts the representative Knudsen mentioned here. But to make this work the best possible, I think it's wise to have a meeting with the association that organizes many of the groups involved. For this reason, the Council of State has wanted to have a direct dialogue with them before we move on with how this work is to be done in the most effective way possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e285	There will be follow-up questions – from Grethe G. Fossum.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e288	History tells us that the Christian People's Party has led a strong fight against the rights of homosexuals – they should perhaps later have a bad conscience for it – from 1973, when financial support for information on homophilis was sought, to today's issue where the Christian People's Party opposes the access of homosexuals and lesbians in partnership to dedicated positions. Being unsure of one's own sexuality is difficult for a youth. Even more difficult it becomes when the leading government party in its positions clearly takes the distance from having gay and lesbian rights similar to those of all other people in Norway. Information is important for young people. In view of the serious problem that has arisen here, will the Prime Minister be in favour of more information through the gay and lesbian organisations? [[The President clubs.]] And isn't he afraid that the resistance of the Christian People's Party to homosexuals and lesbians adds stones to the burden of the young homosexuals?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e297	The President will ask for a successful speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e300	I had hoped that this debate would not end up blaming certain political parties for the problems that have been revealed in this report – it seems to me to be too simple. Nor should it be that if one disagrees with the position on different policy issues, such as: the homophilic organisations ingest shall be deemed to be prejudiced and as the one causing problems to them. There must be a right to disagree on church policy issues and the attitude of church bodies towards who can hold dedicated positions. It must be allowed to disagree with the Partnership Act, without one being labeled as one that causes the gay big problems. I reserve the right to have my political position on such issues, but I will actively participate in countering discriminatory attitudes. I think, for example, what is often said in the mouth of the people, blushing remarks in everyday life, also helps to add to the burden.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e307	There will be follow-up questions – from Ågot Valle.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e310	I would like to follow up with a question to the Council of State Jon Lilletun. What has now emerged about the problems that homosexuals and lesbians have, is about social exclusion in many arenas, both in the Church, at school and in health services. State councillor Jon Lilletun has publicly gone out and complained that Siri Sunde has got his job back in Kirka. Doesn't the Council of State mean that this is sending out signals that the gay and lesbians don't have the same human dignity as the rest of us? Doesn't he mean that this contributes to adding stones to the burden for the gay and lesbians?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e317	It is important what has been said in this matter. What I've done is say two things: the one thing is that when a church meeting has been agreed on a way of dealing with such matters, which is an inner church relationship, I think it's important that all those who are involved in it stick to it until any new decision is taken. – I have expressed that fact. In addition, I have said that I take the matter for information, and that I am waiting for the Church's treatment. Keeping clean about processes in the Church and respecting the Church as a community of trust and the inner mind there is by no means an expression of disparaging anyone.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e324	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e327	I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question. After all, he's had a minute's break, and he'll be able to get rid of new forces! There are many teachers around the country in these days, counting on the buttons if they're going to move away from school or if they're going to go for another year. There are many teachers who are wondering if they should try to find another job and not bet in school. Poor municipal economy has led to the existence, in particular, of the daily lives of children and young people affected by restrictions. And because we know that school is an important part of any municipal budget, in the school sector, there are many constraints. We are now wondering in EN if the Government is working with a contingency plan in relation to the constraints that have occurred in the school sector, and in relation to the reality of children and young people around the municipalities, and whether it can then be presented in the revised national budget so that a signal can be sent to children and young people that they are important and that we intend to bet on them, and that adults – especially the teachers who work in relation to them – are signaled that they are doing an important job.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e339	After all, it has not been long since the Stortinge adopted the budget for 1999. And said in a parentheses, allowing me to, we're now really starting to see the effects of the government's economic policy. I have today been notified of a new interest reduction of 0.5 pst. It will also benefit municipalities and their economy. We hope that it can continue this way, because we have also achieved income policy cooperation that can provide the basis for a very moderate settlement that can move in the same direction. So back to the budget and the teachers and the school situation. We do not currently have concrete plans for additional appropriations or amendments to the adopted education budget for the current year. It is clear that we always consider all the important components of a budget when we review it in the spring. We will also receive figures later in our development both in terms of the school leave scheme and in terms of other parts of the schoolwork. Of course, it can provide a basis for action, but we do not currently have a basis or plans to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e346	The Prime Minister is proud of the good effects of the State budget. And it's happy if the interest rate can go down -- not just 0.5 pst., but more than that. The problem is that there have been evidence of other effects of the agreement concluded by the Centre, Right and Advance Party in the autumn, namely that it is the youngest who pays the price for the contractions around the municipality of Norway, that it is the school that takes a large part of the noise for this. And in this area, we have little time. If it is that many teachers do not have the necessary educational education, that many more than before do not have the qualifications they should have, that many good teachers now wonder if there is any sense in tearing off themselves in a school that does not involve the rest of society, then children and young people and the school should be treated in a completely different way by the prime minister, namely that they said: "Oh, there has been some controversy with children and young people, we have to do something about that!" In many other areas of society, this had meant a lot of noise.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e353	First of all, I have to draw attention to the fact that there are some misleading figures out there and going into the debate. For example, in the case of the school leisure scheme, it has been common for one to have a reduction in the number of participants from the harvest holiday and into the spring semester, so that the figures for the new year are usually slightly lower than in the harvest holiday. But we will have clearer reports on this later. As far as teacher recruitment is concerned, there will be an action plan for teacher training, which the Government sees as an important tool for recruiting for the teaching profession. I fully agree with the representative, Kristin Halvorsen, that having trained teachers is important for the quality of school, and that is what the Government puts high. With a broad pen to establish that it is the youngest who pays for the budgetary settlement, the Prime Minister disagrees with Kristin Halvorsen in. On the contrary, I believe that we have managed budgets that have been good for children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e360	Rolf Rekvam – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e363	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Church, Education and Research – the Prime Minister may need a break. The share of non-accredited teachers has increased in recent years, that's something we know. We also know that graduates don't start school. According to our country today, every five newly educated people do not choose to enter school. University graduates do not choose to take education courses, especially for realists. The wage statistics of the teacher groups show that they have become wage losses beyond the 1990s. The statistics from the Technical Calculations Committee show that in 1998, too, the teacher groups became the losers. During the period 1990-98, teachers have had a wage trend of 10 pst. lower than the other large groups have had. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State see a link between recruiting for the teaching profession and the poor wage development of teaching groups?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e372	I have registered that the representative Rikvam has asked me an interpellation on the same question. I have also recorded that the leader in the Right and some other politicians have raised this debate about proper teacher pay. I'm totally saying that it's important for teachers to be valued, and it's clear that pay is part of that valuation. I think that the 1998 paycheck also went high because the teachers were one of the groups that came out best. The representative also knows that my department is not responsible for the negotiations on pay in the state, and it would be totally crazy of me here to say what we're going to do in the pay resolution that's coming. I just want to make the final comment that I think it has been said much worse from the representatives who have been involved in this debate than they have said about teachers' salaries.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e381	No pay - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e384	I have two short questions, but the first thing I don't think the Minister of Education has enough weight to answer, so I have to ask the Prime Minister to take it. I noticed that the Prime Minister in his reply instead pointed out that the government's budget line has produced very good results, namely reduced interest rates. Does the Prime Minister think that the same would have been the case if the Government had been able to implement its own draft budget last year? And the second question is, does the Prime Minister agree that among all the factors that determine the quality of school, teachers are the most decisive and the only indispensable? And can the Prime Minister assure that the Government's action plan for recruiting the teaching profession will really take the consequences?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e393	Now, state councillor Lilletun has a lot of weight in up to several ways, so he could probably answer both the one and the other question. But the Prime Minister has to take it. In terms of interest rates, the opposition, including the Right, was always very quick on the plate to give the Government the main credit, not to say the main fault, every time it went up by 0.5 or 0.25 pst. So allow me to make the a little strange remark that of course it is expected that the opposition is always as fast in place as addressing this when the interest rate goes down. Whether it had gone down as much and as quickly if the government's original budget had been adopted is impossible to say. It's a hypothetical discussion, but for my part I think so. It was, in our opinion, a balanced contraction between the private and public sectors that had contributed to the cooling down of the economy. I can essentially answer yes to the last question. The action plan shall take into account the importance of teachers in the school.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e402	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e405	My question goes to the Minister for the Environment. State pollution control has granted an emission permit to Natural Power, which in reality means that gas power plants will not be built in Norway for very many years. In the ultimate sense, the emissions permit means that all industrial developments in Norway that result in greenhouse gas emissions are stopped. This is pointed out, among other things. in a letter from Statoil to the Minister for the Environment. There has been a lot of positive and promising on the technology front, but per. today there is no commercial technology for CO2 removal. As a result of SFT’s attitude, Norway will have to import more and more coal power from Denmark, and new industrial developments in Norway will stop. Does the Council of State consider that the SFT's position could have negative environmental consequences and prevent new industrial development in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e415	Let me first say, as the representative Sanner is well aware, that there is now a complaint at the Council of State that she is going to decide on, which means that of course I cannot go into that appeal procedure. I would like to say that there is a complaint from two teams. On the one hand, the complaint from the environmental movement, which has appealed against the decision because they believe that the decision opens up too much for participation in quota trading and thus for purchase free of cleaning at home. On the other hand, complaints from Natural Force and others who believe that the terms of the SFT are too strict. The conditions of the SFT mean that, as is known, natural force is required to reduce CO2 emissions by 90 pst. and the 50 pst NOx emissions. I would like to stress that the SFT's processing of this emission request has been based on professional assessments and on a completely free basis. What is happening now, of course, is that the complaints from several teams will be carefully evaluated, and I intend to reach a decision in the matter before the summer. In addition to that, I find it difficult to comment on the consequences of SFT's impositions both from one side and the other as long as the complaint procedure is ongoing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e424	I thank you for your answer. I appreciate the fact that the Council of State is now setting a deadline for its own work. I would like to point out that a government that believes that clear deadlines should be set in the public administration, should also be able to set the deadline somewhat earlier, so that we could get a clarification. It is agreed that greenhouse gas emissions should take place under the Kyoto Protocol, and then it should be fully possible for the Council to grant an emission permit subject to the purchase of allowances at that time. Let me also stress that in the Grand Duchy there is a majority in order to build gas power plants in Norway, and it is also a majority who have said that once the Kyoto mechanisms are in place, SFT will no longer grant greenhouse gas emissions permits. My question to the Council of State is whether she will consider a scheme in which emission permits can be granted subject to the purchase of allowances at the time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e433	I do not want to in any way pre-empt the complaint procedure. But I would like to stress, as I know that the representative Sanner also knows, that the Kyoto Protocol, as well as opening up the flexible mechanisms, states that this will be a complement to the measures taking place nationally. That means we both have to do things at home and at the same time participate in an international system. I would also like to stress that it was the Ministry of Oil and Energy under the previous government that decided that the SFT would decide here on the emissions from the two gas power plants. That's what's now happening.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e440	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e443	I have a question to the Council of State Lilletun. It's not about homophilis or teacher's wages this time – on the contrary, it's as trivial as the school's external environment. I am thinking of roads in connection with schools and children's school roads. This has been discussed many times, but it was updated last week, when in one of the country's newspapers, under the heading Radar-free zone, it was pointed out that even at a speed limit of 30 km per hour, the police do not want to carry out speed checks. If they drive a driver 42 km per hour, they estimate to suspend the driver's licence, and if the speed is 50 km per hour, the driver loses the notice. I would like to ask the Council of State if he would like to take some kind of ‘action’ in relation to the Council of State Dørum in order to coordinate this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e452	I have to admit that I do not know the matter, I have not seen that newspaper. But my department and the Ministry of Social Security have had a close cooperation at school to ensure that the police get extra ratings to care for safe schooling for the little ones. Unfortunately, it turns out that parents want to take care of their children by running them to school, creating so much traffic that it becomes a problem in itself. But the argument that Ursula Evje no referred to also seems strange to me, so I'm going to promise the representative Ursula Evje that I'm going to get involved in this matter and take it up with the government council Odd Einar Dørum as the proper agent, as the responsible. I can promise you that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e459	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I want to show that it's not just the police who have these very special attitudes. The municipalities themselves – quite a number of municipalities on a national basis – do not think they can build speed dumps in the 30 km zones precisely because it makes bus traffic difficult, it makes winter maintenance difficult, etc. But quite a number of children can not afford to pay dearly for these neglecting sins. I really hope the Council of State does something about this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e466	It's important that we do what can be done. The fact that we get a lot of disadvantages with both dumps and harder brewing is something we have to live with. I therefore share the views of the representative, Mr Evje. At the same time, I have to remind you that we have self-government locally, so stupid state councillor Jon Lilletun or state councillor Odd Einar Dørum can impose anything on them. But in good cooperation between the central government and the Road Administration and the municipalities, we should be able to do more than we do.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e471	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e474	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment. Power consumption in Norway is rising sharply year after year, and we are not expanding new production. For several years in a row, we have now been dependent in Norway on importing electricity. Last year we imported as much as possibly corresponding to two gas power plants. What we import is electricity produced in coal-fired power plants. In the past, Norway was perhaps the world’s cleanest country — hydropower. Now we are in the situation that we must constantly import power produced by the least environmentally friendly option, coal power. So we're importing electricity all the time, and what we're importing is coal power. My question to the Minister for the Environment is: What does it mean for environmental emissions, and especially for greenhouse gas emissions, that we import so much coal power into Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e485	Of course, it is unfortunate for greenhouse gas emissions to use coal either in Norway or elsewhere. As Bent Hegna pointed out, we have major challenges in the energy sector. We see that electricity consumption is increasing, and that it is increasing especially in households. I think it's important that we discuss two things in terms of energy use in the future: how we can get the most environmentally friendly coverage of energy needs and, so important, how we can get the consumption down. We're using a lot of energy in Norway, and we're at the top of the world when it comes to electricity consumption. Not least by trying and getting something done about the consumption, the Government has in various contexts made proposals to increase the electricity charge. Otherwise, I will show that the Government is in favour of a strong increase in the investment in alternative and renewable energy. I also want to show that the government will present the energy message before Easter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e495	First, I want to say that it's wrong what the Council of State claims, that we use a lot of energy in Norway. Norway uses about as much energy as the countries around us use. We're using more electricity, but the total energy consumption is about the same. The councils were involved in a series of events, on which it has been committed for several years. The result is that we use more current year after year. Last year we used 5 pst. more than we used the year before. The development of new technologies and alternative technologies is expensive, and in any case there are small amounts of power that can be produced using alternatives such as wind, sun, etc. I would like to ask: how long will it take, with the evolution of an ac we see, and with the development of the alternatives, before we are independent in importing coal power?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e504	Let me first reject that there's a small amount of power that we're talking about here. We know that there is a great potential both within energy savings and within, among other things, energy savings. wind power. These are concrete things that the Government will come back to in the energy message. There we will also touch on the question that Bent Hegna raises, namely how Norway will in the future cover its energy consumption.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e509	It will be follow-up questions – Kristin Halvorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e512	The Government, the Minister for the Environment and the SV are in a dilemma with regard to the issue of gas power plants and energy in the future, because there is a massive majority in the Stortinget to build gas power plants, and it can materialize at some point. Therefore, we have an intense desire that the Government, first of all, will come out much more offensive in terms of energy savings – which is not a pussy that is about some of us replacing a couple of panel furnaces – it is a tremendous potential to release energy from households, perhaps to industry. Secondly, it concerns the new renewable energy sources. Wind power might cover 10 pst. the energy needs of Norway in a short period of time, if properly invested in it. Can we expect the Government to come up with something in which it is really clicking on, which means that this whole debate is changing so that the majority of the population of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Right will be muted in their demands for gas power stations and run on the defensive in relation to energy savings?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e521	As I said in my previous answer, there will be an energy message before Easter, and what the Government will return from financial efforts will, of course, be presented in budgetary terms – as it should. But I fully agree with the representative of Halvorsen that there is a great potential in both energy saving and renewable alternative energy. Although the representative here chooses to claim that what has happened so far during the government is puzzled, I must be allowed to say that an increase of 40 pst. is not so bad at first. But the government doesn't see itself done with its task. I also want to say that the government, among other things. in the course of its own activities, it is necessary to require public buildings of a certain size in the future to have flexible energy systems. It's just by being able to go ahead with a good example, you can show what kind of possibilities we have.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e530	There will be follow-up questions – Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e533	I'm a little uncertain as to whether the Council of State understands the seriousness. The increase in Norwegian electricity imports from our neighbouring countries leads to a dramatic increase in greenhouse gas emissions. Denmark had the objective of reducing its emissions by 20 p.p. instead, as a result of exports of coal power to Norway and Sweden, they have grown by 20 p.p. What's dramatic is that there's a lot of coal power, it's cheap and therefore the other alternative competes more environmentally friendly energy sources. The working party has launched a scheme to limit imports of Danish coal through quotas. The Nordic Social Democrats have joined in. The question is whether the Government has done anything to follow up the proposal at Nordic level, because it is urgent to develop measures that can limit the import of very cheap coal power from Denmark, which competes with all other more environmentally friendly forces.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e540	We have been in contact with Denmark to gain knowledge of the situation there, not least to gain knowledge of the pricing system that Environment Minister Svend Auken has now launched in Denmark. In this context, we have also raised the issue of a Nordic quota system. I fully agree with the representative, Mr Stoltenberg, that if we are to deal with environmental problems, both in the Nordic region, in Europe and globally, we must come up with a price system for energy that reflects environmental costs. This means that we need to come up with a system where coal power comes out at a lower price than clean and renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e547	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e550	I have a question for the Prime Minister. It is important that young people under the age of 16 can register as fishermen, they can buy a boat, they can fish, they can sell fish, and they can charge VAT. But when it comes to registering in the Entity Register and Business Register, they encounter three problems: 1st@item: inlistbox The Ministry of Industry regulates the legislation of the registers.2. The Ministry of Justice regulates the promise.3. The Ministry of Finance collects taxes and taxes. Here are three departments that can't cooperate. The problem that the boys are facing is that they cannot register, either in the Entity Register or in the Business Register, because the Vergemålsgesetz sets limits. They have to be 18 to be allowed to register there. In this case, an amendment must be made to exempt 16-year-olds who are entitled to register as fishermen and to fish professionally, from the protection law. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e569	The President asks the representative to respect the speaking time. The Prime Minister will be asked if he will answer such a detailed question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e573	I guess I'll do it more generally. But if there are three departments that cannot cooperate, as the representative Bastesen said, there is something for the Prime Minister to intervene in, because ministries are going to cooperate. I don't have enough knowledge of exactly the fence that the representative Bastesen pointed to here, which means that fishermen who otherwise can fish when they are over 16 years old cannot make the necessary registration due to protective measures. I promise to take that up with the correct person.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e580	I thank the Prime Minister for the answer. It is a very fundamental and important matter. All boys between the ages of 16 and 18 can deliver fish, they get paid for the fish in the usual way, they have to collect VAT, and they have to accept 11,11 pst. VAT. Of course, they can't afford to go under the money, because then they'll go to jail. There is unconditional imprisonment to undermine VAT. It is clear that you have to put the money in some account. But where are they going to make out of the money?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e587	The President has some doubts about the Prime Minister knowing where to put the money, but...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e590	I know pretty much where to put them, and I'm not looking to throw people into prison. I'll promise to take this up. There's an obvious contradiction the representative Bastesen points out. If they are allowed to fish, deliver the fish and get paid for it, they should also be registered where fishermen are to be registered. I'm going to bring this back to the three departments and hope that they will cooperate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e595	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e598	I would like to ask the following questions to Minister of Church, Education and Research Jon Lilletun: From Stortinget, there have been several times focused on the physical decay and poor maintenance in many primary and secondary schools. There has been a longer-term study in the Ministry of the Working Environment of pupils, and the Council of State has previously warned that he will present a case on this matter to the Stortinget approximately at the same time as the National Assessment System and issues of equivalent school provision, in line with the principles of the single school. This shopping message is alert in March. My question to the Council of State is whether he will keep his promise and present a case on the student's working environment and a working environment law for students, so that the Stortinget will be able to deal with it in parallel with the National Assessment System.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e607	What I have said before is that I want to come back to Stortinget with an assessment of whether this matter is best resolved in the health and environmental regulations that came into force on 1 January of this year, or whether there is a need for a separate law. We are now working together with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, which is the principal person responsible for the promise I have just mentioned, to get an overview of what it looks like in the municipalities after the regulation came into force. It'll give us a background. Just as I have said, this will be mentioned in the big message to which the representative Kollevoll referred. I have never said that I am going to submit a proposal for a law at that time, but I have said that the problem itself will be discussed. The working group to which Mr Konglevoll also referred is now at the end of his work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e614	In the Question Time on 20 January, the Council of State said that he would first assess whether a regulation was enough. But in the past, that is, before that, the Council of State has said that this review of the law should be dealt with by the Stortinget at the same time as the National Assessment System. The health legislation has long been known by the Council of State, as municipalities were known for three years to meet its requirements. And the assignment with a review of the law has been given to the Ministry of Education, so that assignment was on the desk of Lilletun when he became the Council of State a year and a half ago. It seems that the Council of State has become a little weaker in its promises since the last time he says that he will first assess whether a regulation is enough, when the Stortinget has actually asked for a review of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e621	What's my point is that we have to be able to make sure that we don't do any more things at once that just confuse. When one went into the regulation and looked at what began to come both from the Barneombodet and from a number of other studies, there was reason for us to go into and investigate this matter. I think that you worked on the matter any longer, the clearer it was that you first had to see how this works, and then you have to see what might not be covered by the regulation. Because it is quite obvious that we should ensure a better working environment, which I fully agree with the representative of Konglevoll that is important. But at the same time, it's important that we don't make so many different laws at the same time that one in one way beats the other in whole. This will come back to Stortinget in the row that I informed you first.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e630	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e633	I will ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: The company Naturkraft was recently authorised by the SFT for its two planned gas power plants at Kårstø and Kolsnes. The SFT emissions permit requires 90 pst. the removal of CO2 emissions from the gas power plants, where appropriate the acquisition of allowances for the emissions. The consequence of SFT’s requirements is that gas power stations cannot be realised under the concession condition because there is currently no commercial technology for the removal of CO2 and the introduction of a national and international allowances system is well ahead of time and is highly uncertain. As you know, Norway has a significant deficit of power, and my question is therefore: Will the Council of State ensure that natural force is granted a temporary permit for emissions until the quota system and other mechanisms are in place, so that we do not import highly polluting Danish coal power?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e643	If I now get hurt to repeat myself, it may be related to the fact that the question is relatively similar to what I have already answered. I can't answer that very differently now. As the representative is familiar with, we are now dealing with a complaint about SFT's decision on the natural force emission request. As I said earlier, we have received complaints from several teams. It is important for us that the complaint is properly dealt with. We aim to arrive at a decision on this before the summer. It is neither possible nor desirable, on my part, to prejudge the appeal procedure from the pulpit here today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e652	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and then I will ask a question on a principle basis. The establishment of the allowance system is the responsibility of the authorities. In the view of the Progress Party, it would be totally wrong for the industry to bear the burden of waiting for the implementation of any new Kyoto agreement. If an emission permit cannot be granted until an allowance system is in place, it could be the consequence that industrial developments in Norway that result in greenhouse gas emissions and where the reduction possibilities in their own installation are limited will cease for many years to come. What is the Council of State's view of the principle issue?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e659	Let me first say that when it comes to establishing quota systems, the quota committee set down here at home is going to present its position at the end of the year. So it'll be up to the further work of government and not least increase when such an allowance system can be in place. Similarly, it is intended that the international quota system should be in place in the autumn of 2000. When it takes some time to put in place an allowance system, it's because there's big and difficult challenges we're facing. Among other things, we need to: decide on how to certify allowances, and we will decide how the private sector can participate in a system where countries are obliged to do so. That's why it has to take time. What is important is that industry deals with two things: one is that we must also take action at home. The second is that the quotas will receive a price and that the commitments will be more stringent in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e664	The time for the oral question time is now over, and we're going to go to the ordinary question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e669	In view of the high number of questions to be answered, the President finds it necessary to inform him that he is well aware of Section 53 of the Rules of Procedure. The last 3 terms have determined that only one supplementary question will be given after the main question is answered. This will be considered necessary to allow the day's map to be completed within the time fixed for the morning's meeting. In addition, the President will announce that there will be some changes to the questionnaire set out and will show in the context of the overview distributed to the representatives in their seats in the Chamber. The President proposed that the proposed changes in today's Question Time be approved. The President sees it as a matter of fact. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative of Ms Unn Aarrestad to the Minister for Culture, has been withdrawn. Question 16, from the representative Jan Johnsen to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative Bent Höie. Question 17, from the representative of Inge Myrvoll to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative of Rolf Reikvam. Question 20, from the representative of Oeivind Schirve to the Minister for the Church, Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs as the appropriate representative. Following a request from the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, this question is moved and answered for question 10, which is to be answered by the same Council of State. The question will be raised by the representative Rolf Rikvam. Question 41, from the representative Siri Frost Sterri to the Minister for Development and Human Rights, will be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Development and Human Rights, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e691	I want to ask the Prime Minister this question: ‘We have recently seen several examples of Norwegian companies having to move businesses out of the country due to poor Norwegian framework conditions. What is the Government’s strategy to create more competitive conditions for Norwegian industry in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e700	I agree with the representative Foss that it is important that Norwegian businesses have competitive conditions. The government is pursuing a policy to this end as a goal. Financial policy is aimed at providing the basis for lower interest rates. It's starting to work. Income policy aims to bring price and wage growth down to the level of our trading partners. It is therefore also gratifying that the government-appointed Arntsen committee, which delivered its position yesterday, shows that there is broad support for this also among employee organisations. There may be several reasons why some Norwegian companies have recently moved, or are considering moving, parts of their business to other countries. One main reason is that companies have increasingly become international in their operations. For many Norwegian companies it is desirable to establish parts of the business abroad, for example: to achieve greater proximity to the industrial environment in other countries or to important markets for products. A company would normally have one head office. When companies merge across borders, one of the countries necessarily has to lose its head office. It is hardly possible for a small country like Norway to maintain its domestic headquarters for all major companies. It is a demanding task to facilitate the location of industrial activities in Norway at a time when we are facing increased capital mobility and increasing competition between countries in attracting investment. The fundamental challenge is therefore to ensure that Norway remains an attractive and favourable country for industrial activity. In both the Enterprise Communication and the Ownership Communication, the Government presented the main elements of its industrial policy strategy in four respects: 1st@item: inlistbox Starting and operating enterprises in Norway will be easier.2. Knowledge and competence shall be pursued.3. A comprehensive and environmentally friendly business is to be facilitated throughout the country.4. Provision shall be made to enable Norwegian business to take advantage of the opportunities of a globalised economy. What determines the location of business is complex. Compared with our main trading partners, the Government believes that the framework conditions in Norway in a number of areas are good. But there could also be conditions that draw in the negative direction. In order to address these issues, the Government will establish a Commission to discuss long-term employment and value creation strategies. The deadline for the work of the sample is 1 July 2000. This includes, inter alia: a follow-up to the NHO site initiative — the Norway Commission. It has been stated in the media that tax rules are an important reason for headquarters to be located elsewhere than in Norway. However, it has often not been clear which tax rules should be the cause. Norwegian shareholders will normally receive a higher dividend tax if their head office is moved abroad. There should therefore be no motivation in this to add it to the rest of the world. Business taxation itself is also relatively low in Norway in an international context — it is known as 28 pst. of the dividends. But we are willing to review tax and tax rules, among others. at the Nordic level to ensure that the location of enterprises to Norway is as attractive as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e726	I thank the Prime Minister for the answer. I didn't see anything new in this answer in terms of government strategy, but I perceived certain shades of opening in order at least to assess whether our self-glorifying description of being best in most areas of the world, actually votes. It is well practice that really determines whether this is the case, not investigations, and I find that our neighbouring countries are currently dealing and doing something with their framework conditions while this government is investigating. It could be a costly investigation period. I register, among other things: Denmark has now introduced a new tax system that will attract many businesses to the country, and it is noted that for multinational companies Denmark will appear as a tax haven. In Sweden, it has also been recognised that the need to improve the framework conditions is present. That these are two social-democratic governments should not be an obstacle to a central government in Norway being so bold. [[The President clubs.]] My question is, in conclusion, whether the Prime Minister also stresses that the country's largest insurance company believes that it can sell Norwegian insurance from Sweden more easily than from Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e731	The President will already remember so early in Question Time that speaking time is 1 minute for questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e734	As I said at the end of my answer, we are willing to go through tax rules in concrete terms and compare them with those that are now developing in other countries. As regards the overall corporate tax rate in Norway, it is actually our opinion that it is not bad compared with other countries, nor in the other Nordic countries. The tax rate on profits in Norway of 28 p.m. is actually low in the international context. We also have provisions, RISK rules and other rules in this area, which make it possible for a normal person in Norway to avoid double taxation, to which shareholders in other countries may be exposed. We have also registered that things are going on, among other things. magazines in Denmark. We will address this, and I think it can be beneficial to achieve maximum harmonisation of the legislation in the Nordic countries, so that one does not get an adverse development between our countries. The government is also willing, as we have said before, to consider tax and tax rules, such as, among other things. is subject to investment taxes and property taxes, in such a context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e753	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e759	I will ask the Minister for Children and Family Affairs the following questions: ‘The Council of State has stated several times that when introducing the cash support scheme, it will be important for the Government that parents are actually at home with their children when they withdraw cash support. If the arrangement did not lead to more time between parents and children, the government would review this. Has the Government now changed its mind, so that there is no more time between parents and children that is crucial to the Government in this matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e768	I'm not sure what an announcement from my representative Bekkemelm Orheim looks for when she asks if the government has changed its mind. I would first like to remind you that we had three main goals with cash support. She would help the family to have more time together to take care of their own children, family members would have greater choice when it came to caring for their children, and there would be a greater resemblance in the state transfers to their families with and without kindergarten. It is right that the government wants small children families to be able to spend more time with their own children following the cash support. This is one of the questions we will also consider in the evaluation of the scheme. Before the introduction of cash support, the Central Statistical Agency conducted a survey of 3,500 mothers with children under school age, asking for planned professional participation and care after the introduction of cash support. Among the working mothers, there were 38 psts. intended to reduce professional work and a total of 80 pst. of these said that the cash support made this possible. That was also 18 pst. of the working mothers who said that they would be reintroduced after the introduction of the cash support, and more than half said that there was cash support that made this possible. There is also no evidence from the same study that fathers will increase their professional participation. The study thus suggests that parents will spend more time with their children. A new study to be carried out in April this year will show how parents actually behave so far. This study will be important in the further evaluation, but even more important is the third follow-up round after the cash support has worked for some time. Then we will see more clearly whether parents have changed care patterns. If it turns out in the long run that parents don't spend more time on child care, I will evaluate a review of the legislation. As you know, the government has an agreement with the Right and the Advance Party on the cash support during this large-scale period, and of course we intend to hold it. This means that we will discuss any changes in the arrangement with these two parties.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e781	The background to the question is the recent opinions of the Council of State on various newspapers. The government's main justification for the cash support is, in my opinion, on the waving front. The main reason for this has been to give the families of young children more time to stay at home with the children, and that one could thus get a less stressful everyday life for both the young and the parents. We have also heard that this has been a value argument from the Government. Does the Minister for Children and Family really think that it is right to spend billions of dollars on a scheme that might prove not to give more time between parents and children? If it is the case that investigations from Bodø and Akershus should be correct, there are as many as 70 pst. which continues to work. And then this isn't a scheme that gives more time, but where you get a gold-plated check from the public to use on what you want. Now there's no more time and the value of it, which is a family policy system, which is the most important thing for the Government, but just the principle that any freedom should apply.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e788	There was no question in this follow-up round, but I will try to answer what I believe would have been the question. I said in my answer that there are three objectives here. The one of these, which is giving parents and having more time together, is of course important, but the other two are actually also important. This is not about spending more time on the waving front. For me, it might be the most important thing. But I want to stress that the other two objectives are also important in the big context. I also want to say that I'll probably wait a while to decide if we have to change the system because the behavior doesn't change. I think that the cash support needs to work for a time to sit down, and to see if parents change behavior patterns. As I also said in my reply: If we, not now in the first round, but after the cash support has worked for some time, see that there has been no more time between children and parents, I will agree to discuss what to do. But I don't want to say that it's going to happen to the fall, because it's too early. The cash support has not yet been properly seen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e800	I have this question to the Minister for Children and Family: ‘According to a new study on the living conditions of lesbians and gays, it appears that lesbians and gays are still subject to a high level of discrimination in different areas of society. Much must be done to make this group feel that they have exactly the same human dignity and are treated equally with others in society. On February 26, 1999, the Council of State stated in radio that she had nothing to do with the gay way of living. Does this mean that the Council of State considers that the Government has no responsibility to intervene in this investigation?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e809	I have to say I was a little surprised by the question from the representative Valle. I think that if I had said something about their private lives, maybe the question would get even harder from the same representative. I replied as I did in that program, just to give to know an inclusive hold on lesbians and gays, and when it spelled out their privacy, it was the very ones who had to choose which life they wanted to live; it's not me who's going to take those choices for them. But I also want to stress that it is not acceptable for lesbians and gays to be harassed. They have the same human dignity and are, of course, to be treated in the same way as everyone else. NOVA's investigation, the Year of Life and the Quality of Life among lesbian women and gay men, is a new crime. It's the first major survey of living conditions among homosexuals and lesbians here in Norway and the largest in their battle in the Nordic countries. The investigation gives us good and necessary knowledge. It shows that there have been more positive holds in the people. Lesbian and gay people have consistently high education and good income. Most people have a good relationship with their family and have great friends where they live. It is also said that many people experience discrimination at work and at study places, but the number has decreased since the 1970s despite the fact that many today are more open about their sexual orientation. These are positive features, which we must also include in the further work and in the debate. But it is still the alarming and alarming aspects of the report that I am most concerned about. The lesbian and gay anguish with mental problems. Many young people have tried to take their own lives. There is a major drug problem, and many are exposed to power and threats. These problems have to be dealt with, and I say that today, as I have also said in almost every interview I have given since Friday, but not everyone has. I am now invited by the National Association for Lesbian and Homophil Liberation – LLH – to a meeting in the Department to discuss the follow-up to the report. I want a constructive dialogue with LLH about what can be done from the public and from the organisation itself, to both look at the causes and to improve the way of life of the lesbians and gays. The ministry will now go through all the pages of the report and evaluate what can be done from our side. LLH has already put forward a number of proposals that we will of course also consider, without me saying yes or no to any of these proposals today. When it comes to measures in the field of education and health protection, which I think are very important actors here, I refer to answers from the Minister of Health and the Minister of Church, Education and Research later in Question Time today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e822	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am glad that the Council of State underlines the human dignity of the homosexuals and lesbians. What made me uneasy last Friday was that the Council of State gave several signals that living conditions for lesbians and gays were a matter for the psychiatrists and caregivers, while here we are talking about the growing-up conditions for the young lesbians and gays. I have heard little about the shocking lifestyles of homosexuals and lesbians being the result of discriminatory attitudes, resulting in a lack of support and social exclusion and harassment. It is the responsibility of all of us to do something with discriminatory attitudes, but it is to the greatest extent a responsibility of the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, who is responsible for the framework of the growing-up conditions of all young people, including lesbians and gays. I think it's great that the Council of States now wants to have a dialogue with LLH, but the report gives us good enough knowledge to know that here we have to make a coordinated effort, and that can be done through a big message. Will the Council of State take the initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e831	I would say that precisely in this case I dare not attack the representative's ears, but some others' wishes and will to hear what is being said, and also some media's desire to take in everything that is said in various interviews. When I was confronted with this report on Friday morning, some of the main factors were the mental and drug problems that many lesbians and homosexuals have. Then it was quite natural for me to point out the reforms that we already have. They have to catch up with this problem as well. Then I fully agree that I have my share of responsibility in relation to what is my department's responsibility when it comes to measures for this group, and I will take that responsibility. I hope I have a constructive dialogue with LLH about what they can do, and what we can do from the authorities' side. I have not taken my stand as to whether or not we need a big message. It will be assessed, because I feel that I need a little more time to review the report before I draw the final conclusion. But at least it is not my intention to deny me the responsibility I have for the problem that we have become aware of.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e841	I will ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘Does the Council intend to introduce contracting subsidies on fishing boats and ferries in relation to the revised national budget in 1999 or in the budget for 2000?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e848	I would first like to consider the question of contracting fees for fishing boats. With effect from 1 January 1997, a new EU Directive on fisheries entered into force. It prohibits the granting of industrial aid to shipyards building fishing boats for supply in the EU area. This Directive only provides for the granting of fishing aid falling within the scope of the EU fisheries aid programme and this aid may be granted only to the fishing boat owner, who shall be free to determine the place where the vessel is to be built in the EU area. Both the EU Commission and the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, assessed the case in such a way that it could also apply internally in the EEA area. This is reflected in the new Shipbuilding Directive, the 8th Directive, which explicitly states that this applies only to fishing boats for export outside the EEA territory. This was detailed in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade's 1998 budget proposal and also referred to in the Ministry's 1999 budget proposal. Therefore, building grants or contracting grants for domestic deliveries of fishing vessels may be granted only under the fisheries policy instruments and then only as a subsidy to the shipowner, who must be free to choose where in the EEA territory he wishes to build. With regard to ferries, it was until 1 April 1996 that some ferries did not receive a building grant because the ferry company received public compensation for operating the ferry link into which the ferry was put. However, since then, Norwegian yards have been paid construction grants for the construction of ferries, in the same way as for the construction of other eligible vessels. In this context, I refer to the treatment of St.prp by Stortinges. No 15 for 1996-97. If the Storting joins the Government's proposal in St.prp. No 35 for 1998-99 If supported by the shipbuilding industry, the grant will be increased to 9 pst. for vessels with a value exceeding 10 million. EUR and 4,5 pst. for other vessels. There is clearly cause for concern regarding developments in the yard industry. That is precisely why we have now put forward proposals for a substantial increase in the rates of agency aid. As regards the question of contracting subsidies for fishing vessels and ferries, thorough assessments have been carried out, as I have explained in this reply. The government will, of course, follow developments in these markets closely in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e868	I am aware that we have both an EU directive and an EEA legislation to deal with. The background to my question was a play from the representative Leif Helge Kongshaug from Sponheim's own party that the yard support scheme also had to apply to fishing vessels and ferries. As we know, parts of our fishing fleet and ferries are of a very old age. In the country's largest fishing and ferries, Moor and Romesdal, ferries have an average age of 21 years. Furthermore, it is a very large undercapacity that creates major problems for traffic management. Norwegian shipyards also have good and long traditions for the construction of ferries. Kongshaug’s play has created great expectations in the yard industry, which is now known to be experiencing a major word-darkness and thus a major impact on employment, among other things. More and Romesdal. In my opinion, it is important that the Government has a quick clarification, and the Council of State has given its response to this today. The worst thing that can happen is that the industry doesn't know what kind of framework conditions it has to work for. Therefore, the play to Kongshaug was unfortunate if it was such that this was not the government's desired policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e877	I share the replicator's view on the problem of the yard industry and the need to take action. Therefore, the Government also acted very quickly by promoting a proposal that is now under consideration in the Storting, to increase the yard support. We thought of that as an immediate measure. In addition, the Government has announced, and said on various occasions, also in the context of the spontaneous Question Time, etc., that we are looking closely at various other measures for the shipbuilding industry that may remedy a situation if developments are now being like many warning lamps. This applies both to the part of the shipyard industry subcontracting to the oil sector and to the other shipbuilding/yarding industry — including those building fishing boats. There is a set of relevant measures on the Government’s table that are under consideration. But they must be EEA-legal, as I explained in my reply. The proposal on the maintenance of ferry construction, etc., is a proposal which is kept under constant review by the Government and which provides an opportunity to look at this. But there is no precedent for starting with budgetary gaps in the Questionnaire a few months before the budget is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e886	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Finance: ‘The Tax Directorate’s assessments and proposals for the future organisation of the Equation Management have been drawn up in a report on internal taxation. Is the Telemark County Tax Office its decision to locate three Equations Offices in the municipality of Bø in line with the laws and regulations as debt, and is it appropriate to carry out the corresponding reorganisation at other Equations Offices before the report mentioned has been dealt with politically?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e895	Under the Equation Act, there shall be an Equation Office for each municipality, but the location of each office is not statutory. Co-location is therefore permitted under current legislation, but there is a requirement to maintain a separate office for each municipality. There is a need for legislative change if the Equation Offices are to be closed or merged into one single Equation Office for several municipalities. The issue in question needs to be seen in a broader context, and I would therefore refer to my letter of 9 December 1997 to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of the Grand Duchy, which is annexed to the Innst. S. No 67 for 1997-98. Here is a detailed description of the Ministry of Finance's objectives, arrangements and premises for the organisational review of the country's equation management that is now under the direction of the Tax Directorate, on the initiative of my predecessor, Jens Stoltenberg. All the time when it was about an investigation or review, where the conclusions will be drawn later, I found no reason to stop the matter when I joined as Minister of Finance in the autumn of 1997. The Tax Directorate's report, together with any proposals for permanent changes in the organisation of the Equation Management, is expected to be about the Ministry. 1 April this year. For the sake of order, I make it clear that I have not taken a decision as to whether it is appropriate to reorganise the equation management, or what future organisational model I would recommend in that case. The report of the Directorate will be considered in a broad perspective, with many considerations to be weighed against each other, and the report will be sent at the hearing to the relevant bodies. As part of the review of the organisation of the equation management, the Tax Directorate has been asked for, among others. to test alternative organisational solutions for the equality offices that are compatible with the applicable law. The aim is to gain experience in the practice of e.g.: the pooling and co-location of offices, so as to know more about the impact of such measures both locally and in a wider context. The initiative for such a test has been entrusted to the County Tax Offices, which have the direct administration of the Equation Offices of each State. In other words, the current experiment with the co-location of three offices in Mid-Telemark is both within the regulatory framework and within the assumptions of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance for organisational review, cf. Inner. S. No 157 for 1996-97 and the aforementioned suspension with its annexes. Similar tests are also carried out in other counties, but overall in a relatively modest number. The measures are provisional and have the character of testing schemes. The long-term organisation of the Equation Management will in any case depend on the outcome of the political examination of the Report on the Organisational Review by the Tax Directorate. I have also asked the Tax Directorate not to launch more attempts at co-location beyond those already in progress, pending the political discussion of the report. It happened in a recent meeting with the Tax Director.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e908	I thank the Council of State for the answer and understand it so that what has happened in Mid-Telemark is part of a test scheme and not a template for a future scheme. I would like to stress that I think the efficient use of resources in our equation management is right, that we need to have a competent and well-founded equation, and that the equation treatment must be such that we have a short waiting time. But the Equations Offices should also be a place in people's community. What is important is close contact with people and business. That's why, as they said, we have a law enforcement of offices in all municipalities. I'm also not opposed to what the Council says about coordination measures, which is presented in this report, but I want a device and a model that doesn't weaken the local connection to the system of equations, and I want the system of equations to have offices in all municipalities. And I would like to ask, does the Council share this view?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e917	Yes, as I explained in my main response, what is now going on in Mid-Telemark and, moreover, in some other states, experimental schemes to gain experience, and is part of this review that is now under the direction of the Tax Directorate. When the report comes from there to the Ministry after an internal hearing in the ETA, around 1 April, it will be carefully assessed and sent to the hearing to allow all relevant bodies to come forward with their views. I agree with the representative Holte that close contact with the environment is of great importance, and that it therefore needs a great deal to do before you get an arrangement that does not include representatives of the equation management in every municipality. But we'll have to wait for the conclusions. For my part, I have not yet taken a position on how to organise the equation management for the future. I will wait until I see the report – about April 1.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e927	I want to ask the Minister of Finance the following questions: ‘Very many previous owners of cars are waiting for payment of the parcel, some as far back as October 1998. The reason for this delay is, according to the Customs and Charges Directorate, problems with a new computer system. Does the Council of State think this is a good enough excuse, and what does the Council of State intend to do to correct for those who are innocently affected by this?"
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e936	I would like to make it clear in the outset that the wreckage is paid by the customs and fees allowance according to the Ministry of the Environment's regulations on the payment of the wreckage for cars and belt motorcycles. Warrants and operating grants to approved collection points are paid by the customs and charging seat on behalf of the environmental protection authorities, who are responsible for establishing payment criteria, etc. In connection with the transition to a new computer system for handling, inter alia: motor vehicle charges were withdrawn from the old motor vehicle charging system, MASYS, from normal operation at the beginning of October 1998. The system, which was to replace the old one, was launched at the beginning of November 1998. To date, the transition to the new system has gone as intended, with the exception of the part intended to deal with the wreckage. The result is that the customs and tax haven has had serious problems in making payments of the wreckage and operating grants for approved wreckage messages on the basis of wreckage messages received from 1 October 1998. The testing and implementation of the new solution for the disbursement of parcels and operating grants to collection sites has taken a long time, and the transition to a new system has given more and more challenges than the ex ante tests carried out. Thus, a significant amount of errors occurred during the implementation period. All of the errors that have arisen have been dealt with and corrected quickly by the department, but the significant amount has contributed to the time-lag of the correction work. An authorised wreck message shall normally trigger the payment of the wreck to the owner of the vehicle and an operating grant to the collection site which has received the vehicle for wreckage. It has been carried out approx. 10000 payments of the wreckage so far this year. These include all wreck notifications from October to the first half of December 1998 which have been duly completed by the owners of the vehicle and the collection points. On 1 March, a payment order was issued for approx. 10000 operating grants to collection sites. These payments cover notifications received for the period October to the first half of December 1998. If the bank’s payment procedures are as intended, the reimbursements will be in the recipients’ accounts by the end of today’s day at the latest – i.e. Wednesday 3 March. When punching wreck messages, approx. 40 pst. of these due to data gaps received. In total, such cases amount to approximately 10 % of the total for the period October to December 1998. 8 000 wreck notifications. When the wrecks are defective, the fault must be corrected manually by the customs and charging seat. The handling of these wrecks is mainly due to the admissibility of customers. When a response is received from the individual customer, the wreck message is added manually to the new system. This is a time-consuming task, but it aims to ensure that all remaining refunds for 1998 are effective during March 1999. There's something left of the main answer, President. Can I choose to take it in the additional answer or maybe get another half minute now?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e955	The Council of State may take this into account in the additional reply.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e958	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which explains why these delays have occurred. I record with some amazement – but positive – that in the response from the Council of State it refers to approx. 10000 payment orders for operating grants to car collection sites per year. 3 March 1999, i.e. Today, when this question is answered, and that it is actively working to get up to date as soon as possible. Will the Council be able to look at an interest subsidy for those who have had money for money, ranging from NOK 1500 – for example. to the car collector Stein Skogsberg, who claims in the evening post on 25 February 1999 to have 306 000 kroner in return? It may not be right for individuals and companies to be financially injured when the department has problems. In the case of the opposite road, such as: in the case of late payment of an annual fee, a fixed penalty fee of 250 kroner is required from the first day.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e967	I agree that it is very regrettable that problems with computer facilities in the customs and tax haven have caused considerable financial problems to private individuals. – But I have to use the rest of the response time to finish what I should have originally said. In the case of wreckage notifications from the second half of December 1998, they have been received by the department in January and February of this year, and the reimbursements associated with them could be about. 14 days delayed in relation to what has previously been the ordinary course of proceedings. For a number of customers, the department has paid refunds on a manual basis, more or less on a continuous basis, when customers per. telephone or letter have stated that liquidity problems have arisen as a result of the absence of reimbursements. Such payments will continue to be given priority until the budget is up-to-date with all payments made in 1998. I do not know if the named person, who specifically mentioned the questioner, had made aware of liquidity problems and could have had – if I should call it – gunners.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e981	I have the following questions for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs: ‘Telenor AS is currently applying for 300 apprentices across full-page advertisements in the daily press. ‘We particularly encourage girls and young people with a multicultural background to search’, says the text. Paragraph 55(A) of the Working Environment Act provides that, in the event of publication and to applicants for employment, there shall be no discrimination on grounds of race, colour of skin, national or ethnic origin. Does that advertising campaign mean that multicultural youth can be preferred to other youth in the admission of apprentices in Telenor AS?’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e990	The second paragraph of Section 55(A) of the Working Environment Act provides for a general ban on ethnic discrimination in the employment of workers, unless it can be considered to be justified in substance. It is necessary to make a specific assessment in relation to individual employment. The preparatory work shows that very much is required before discrimination is to be regarded as factually justified. Furthermore, it can be seen that cases of discrimination that might be in line with the materiality criterion are so-called positive discrimination, for example. recruitment of a person belonging to a pre-represented ethnic group. This means that, although there are no rules of positive discrimination, there will be scope for concrete employment to take certain such considerations into account in relation to the substantive requirement. Thus, the answer to the question from the representative Torbjørn Andersen is that multicultural youth may be preferred to other young people in the admission of apprentices in Telenor AS if this can be considered to be justified by an overall assessment in the individual case.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e997	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I would like to make it clear that I find the text in the full-page ad, which has been presented in several newspapers, unfortunate. There is no one who reads this ad, who would be in doubt that people with a particular ethnic or cultural background are being sought, and it can hardly be said to be in accordance with the intentions of the Labour Environment Act in this area. This ad clearly reflects the fact that it will prefer certain categories of people based on their particular cultural background. One was now confirmed by the Council of State that this could happen. I find it strange when the state's own company, Telenor, is unable to act more correctly in relation to a law that the state itself is to administer. The answer from the Council of State was to defend Telenor's right to use this advertisement, and that means that we do not need to take the provisions of the Working Environment Act in this area very seriously any longer. It was a straightforward clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1006	Following the assessments made in our department, Telenor's ad is not incorrectly designed. As I said, Telenor has the full opportunity, after an overall assessment of the individual specific employment, to prefer someone with a cultural background if they otherwise believe that it is right to do so. I would remind you that with regard to the role of the State as an employer, it turns out that among government employees, people with a multicultural background are far under-represented. It is the Government’s aim to pursue an recruitment policy that allows people with a foreign cultural background to have the same opportunities and rights to be employed in the state sector at all levels. It's also important to me, who's responsible for integration, that people get a job and can handle themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1016	I will continue with questions to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs about inclusion in Norwegian society and how important it is. «Among the 8 000 who are in receptions of asylum, there are many children injured in war and parents with great traumas. Several of the lone asylum seekers have been child soldiers. Without early help, they will have difficulty coping with life and working in society. According to several sources, children and their parents do not get the help they need. Among other things, it is important that child protection takes on a responsibility for coordination. What does the Council of State think is necessary in order for children and parents to receive the necessary assistance to facilitate their inclusion in society?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1025	Initially, I would like to stress that it is not that the majority of lone minor asylum seekers coming to Norway have been child soldiers. Many come from war - torn lands, and many have had bad experiences. However, what makes them particularly vulnerable is that they come to Norway without parents or others with parental responsibility. Those who are in addition without accompanying persons, such as older siblings or other relatives, are particularly vulnerable. The children who come all by themselves are placed in asylum receptions in places that are earmarked for them. There are specific requirements related to these sites. In addition, the process of getting them to live in a municipality immediately after they have arrived. The aim is that they should be resident within three months of receiving a residence permit, if any. An individual plan is also drawn up for each child, starting at reception and subsequently transferred to the municipality of residence. There is no doubt that a quick settlement in a municipality is a better solution for these children than a longer stay in reception. For this reason, after an individual assessment, they may reside in a municipality before they may have obtained a residence permit. A majority of the lone minors are covered by this scheme, and several municipalities have subsequently concluded agreements to receive lone minors. Unfortunately, it has been difficult to get enough space in the municipalities. At the same time, the number of lone minors coming to Norway has almost doubled in the last year. Many single minors therefore have a longer stay in reception than is desirable. This situation has made it necessary to evaluate the offer of unaccompanied minors in reception. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs is therefore working on this in cooperation with the other departments. Having said that, I would like to stress that for these children, a rapid settlement in a municipality is preferable to a longer stay in an asylum facility. I therefore consider the work to have agreements with the municipalities on the settlement of lone minors as very important.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1041	I thank you for the answer, and I share the Council of State's concern for all those who come without parents or older siblings. But I would like to stress that parents too have experience in war and torture, which makes it more difficult to be parents in a situation where they are going to be in reception or living in a foreign country. I agree with the Council of State on the importance of rapid deployment. There have been some alarming signals this morning. For children with traumas in particular, for those to be offered assistance, an asylum cannot continue to provide emergency facilities in municipalities where there is occasional availability of hotel capacity or a secondary school. It is necessary to create a network of joint municipal councils which know what to do and which have the necessary competences. This is the responsibility of the state. Will the State Council do what SV has proposed, namely to initiate the creation of such a network of joint municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1048	Firstly, I agree with the representative that there are also many adults, parents, who have many bad and difficult experiences behind them that make them need special follow-up, and it's being tried. So to that with the establishment of asylum recipients. It is the UDI that is responsible for establishing asylum recipients in it – one may say – the order of magnitude that we need at all times. It is difficult to do this in such a way that, at the same time, we take into account large variations from year to year in the need for asylum seekers. But the UDI try as far as possible, and at the request of our department, to contact the municipalities in good time before establishing an asylum reception. With regard to the network solution proposed by SV, we need to look at it more closely, without I being able to say over the table now how it could possibly be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1060	I will be asked the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘On 22 February 1999, State Secretary Per N. The Garden of the NRC that rationalisation and reorganisation at state level should be halted until a new legislation to provide an overall overview of the impact on districts is in place. Opinions were repeated in the Nations on 23 February 1999. Does the Government agree that all reorganisation processes in the country should now be stopped and, if necessary, for how long should the Government wait to implement already adopted conversion processes?’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1069	The Government presupposes that adopted conversion processes within the State administration are to be implemented. However, the government is concerned about the development of government jobs in the districts and centralised to the main areas of pressure. The government will therefore closely follow the ongoing structural changes in state agencies such as the EQUs, the police and the judiciary. In all these areas, there will be reports and settings on structural changes during the spring of 1999. Individually, any structural changes within these departments may be well justified, but the Government wants to avoid, as far as possible, the same communities being affected when several state agencies are rationalising simultaneously. Guidelines have long been in place requiring that ‘a broad assessment should be carried out in the event of any new establishment, reorganisation or rationalisation of the country’s activities, with a significant emphasis being placed on the regional distribution of jobs’. That's exactly what we now want to do by looking at the ongoing processes in the context, so that we don't get an accidental and unacceptable centralization that puts our goal of a varied and decentralised housing pattern at risk. The fact that the rural population both experience the disappearance of state jobs and the poorer access to public services, I interpret that the existing guidelines have not been good enough. I am therefore working on reviewing these as quickly as possible, and hopefully this work will be clear so that I can present it in the Regional Policy Statement to the European Parliament on 20 April. I would also like to come back to what the Government will do to ensure a good regional distribution of state jobs and to ensure that the rural population has good access to public services. I therefore have the ambition that the State will have a comprehensive localisation policy for its activities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1078	I think it was a little reassuring to hear the answer from the Council of State, which is something other than the State Secretary Per. N. Hagen has spoken in various media – it is, at least, underlined that adopted conversion projects should go ahead. I still have a certain nuance between what the Government is now saying, and what the Workers' Party stands for. We have said quite clearly that with regard to any change, change, or simply adjustment of what is happening in the municipalities in line with the reality we live in, the interests of the users must be at the centre. That's what we have to try to deal with even when we're talking about the possible co-location or merger of public offices. And one of the things I usually meet when I'm talking to people is that people are really tired of going from one public office to the other and telling their life story over and over again, for example. in the employment office, the social security office or the social security office. I think we have everything to earn in the long term to get this turned into one door, so you have one person to deal with. I would like to ask whether the Council of State agrees with this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1085	First of all, the answer I've given is exactly the same as what my State Secretary has said, I show you, among other things. until the posts he has had in the newspapers – just so it's fixed. So to that with co-location, or service office, which we also choose to call it. This is what the Government is actively working on. The coordination of it lies with my colleague in the Ministry of Administration, who, in my opinion, has led a very active line in that area. We are all, I think, agree that users' concerns should weigh heavily, but this does not preclude the Government from pursuing a comprehensive policy on state jobs and ensuring that we also have state jobs in the districts. There is therefore no contradiction between the work done in the Ministry of Administration and the work we do in the Ministry of Local Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1092	We go to question 20.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1098	This question, from the representative of Oeivind Schirve to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, who will direct him. The question is addressed by the representative of Rolf Rekvam.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1103	I would like to ask the local and regional minister who addresses the following questions: ‘In the 1999 state budget, it was set at 50 million. crowns for distribution to primary and secondary schools. Now it turns out that some primary schools in Telemark and Hordaland need to be closed, because these funds are used in other areas. Will the Council of State ensure that the funds will actually be used for the maintenance of these primary and secondary schools?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1110	I see it as a focal point in many communities. In many places, the primary school is important for maintaining the settlement. Not least, it is difficult to make families with children stay in a place without a school in the community. This is the background that we've now distributed 50 million. kr in additional discretionary funds for communities with weak economies and small schools as a result of scattered settlements. Here we have also taken into account whether the municipality loses a lot on the loss of company tax. These funds were set aside in the State budget to increase the free income of municipalities that are struggling to maintain the service provision. With the additional funds, the Government wants to help municipalities with a tight municipal economy have an opportunity to maintain high-risk cross-border schools. There is a clear expectation from my side that the funds are actually being used for this. However, I have basic confidence that local elected representatives can make sensible priorities and that the municipalities that are now receiving additional funds are using them in a good way. The funds are granted as free revenues. That makes me formally unable to intervene either. It is the local elected representatives who have to be responsible to the local people for the choices they make.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1119	Basic trust in local politicians probably has most of us. But when, as politicians at the Grand Council, we choose to use earmarked funds — now we can discuss the earmarking of these funds — when we choose to use funds for specific actions, it is very important that the Grand Government, the Ministry, follow up to ensure that the funds go to what they really were supposed to go to. In this case, we have examples of the fact that funds initially intended for the maintenance of schools have not gone into it — the schools have been closed despite having applied for and also received these funds, which were initially aimed at defending small schools and community schools. My supplementary question to the Council of State is: will the Council of State go in and look at this and follow it up to get an overview of whether the money goes to what they were supposed to go to?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1126	As I said, the funds aren't earmarked, they're given as free resources, but they're given to help those municipalities that labor the most financially, to maintain the branch schools. It's the statesmen who distribute these funds. And as I said, I expect the municipalities that receive extra funds to use the money for what they are supposed to do. But these are not earmarked means, which means that we can't go in and check the way I understand that the representative wants us to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1133	We go back to question 11.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1139	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister of Labour and Administration: ‘Although the objective is to increase the proportion of men in women-dominated occupations, it is opposite. In Stavanger, the proportion of women in the base ball increased from 72,3 pst. in the 1996-97 school year to 74.1 pst. Inherent school years. We all know that most of the explanations are the unreasonable differences in pay between male and female-dominated professions. Will the Council of State ensure that an equal pay pot is set up at the time of pay settlement, possibly what is done to ensure equal pay and more men in women’s dominated professions?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1148	The government is concerned with equal pay issues, both on the basis of its overall social responsibility and in its role as an employer. However, the parties are primarily responsible for the implementation and design of wage settlements. The country as an employer places emphasis on ensuring equal pay policy considerations at all levels of collective bargaining and approaches equal pay issues with different types of instruments. Of course, in advance of a payroll settlement, I do not want to decide which individual instruments, such as: equal pay pots, the parties should apply. However, I would like to inform you about the contribution made by the parties to the central government tariff settlement in respect of equal pay in the 1990s. In the 1990s, the central parties have taken greater care of equal pay policy considerations at all levels than in the past. This has produced positive results and developments in the state tariff area are moving in the right direction. The following figures show the development of equal pay: A research project carried out by the Institute for Social Research shows that the pay gap between women and men is clearly less for the period 1991-96 than for the period 1987-90. The development of pay differentials between women and men with equal education, professional experience and working hours has been reduced from 9.4 p.m. in 1991 to 7.3 pst. of 1996. When checked for the job, the pay gap within the same position is stable at about 1 pst. during the same period. Analysis shows that over time wage developments in the same department are similar for women and men. The wage differentials arise mainly as differences in initial wages and salaries for women and men in the same activity. The key leaders in favour of women were reinforced in last year's main tariff line. The General Agreement on Tariffs of the State of 1 May 1998 – 30 April 2000 provides for equal pay at all levels to be ensured in central negotiations in the first year of the Agreement. I also quote: «Women and the school community shall have a higher proportion of the compensation of employees than a pro rata distribution implies.» Gender equality has also been considered as a point before the start of local negotiations, and the central parties recommend the following: ‘The parties locally identify any gender pay gap at all levels and the negotiations shall contribute to their elimination.’ I will also refer to the following results from recent years: the central adjustment facility in the country per year. On August 1, 1998, the women gave 53 pst. of the compensation of employees, making up 44 pst. of the payroll mass. Corresponding figures for 1997 are 46 pst. of the wages and salaries of women, with a female share of 44 p.m. and in 1996 47 p.m. of the wages and salaries of women, with a female share of 42 p.m. As mentioned above, research suggests that the difference in earnings arises in individual state activities, because women and men appear to be added to different starting positions, even though they have the same type of education. At local level, the parties have work to do, and the central parties have given clear guidance on this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1173	I thank the Council of State for your answer. The government is concerned with equal pay and gender issues, claims the Council of State. Yes, but then it's the first step to consider how to do something more about it than what you're doing now. Having special treatment for men in relation to the Equality Act, trying to influence men through the education system, does not seem to be an objective. At the same time, we must also say to those who are to be recruited for the following occupations: You enter a profession where wages are getting poorer year by year, because it is not possible to do anything about it. It's a central question of negotiation, says the Government, which is concerned with equal pay. This passivity seemed to me to be sad. We know that there are a lot of vacancies for nurses, help nurses, preschool teachers and teachers – there is a great need for new people. Action must then be taken, and the most important action is to raise wages. But let me challenge the state council, which won't set off an equal pay pot: what do the state councils think about their right play when it comes to pay raise for teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1184	Firstly, I have not concluded on the representative's question, and secondly, in the situation we are in, I find it absolutely impossible to comment on the character of the right leader. I think that's understandable. I want to complement my answer with some measures that we are taking, after all, to reduce the difference in pay between women and men. It is now possible under the Gender Equality Act to specifically treat men in order to achieve a better balance between men and women in women-dominated professions. This Regulation entered into force on 17 July 1998. Special treatment is mentioned here in relation to encouraging men to apply for jobs and training, as well as to give priority to men in positions and places of study. In addition, the Minister of Church and Education has also made great efforts to influence the educational choices of young people, in order to contribute to changes in the sex-shared labour market. We also heard that in the oral question procedure today, it was said that there will be an action plan for recruiting teachers. Of course, the pay question is part of this, but I don't want to go into it right now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1198	I will be asked the following questions by the Minister of Labour and Administration: «We now hear daily about redundancies, lay-offs and bankruptcies in business. Specially exposed are the oil and shipbuilding industry and the construction sector. In addition, 62 pst is raining. by municipalities with manning reductions during 1999, according to the Municipal Report. How many jobs must be lost before the Government will take action?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1207	In recent months, unemployment has remained stable at a low level. In February, the registered unemployment rate was 2.7 pst. This shows that the report on the labour market has not yet arrived. Only Luxembourg and Iceland of industrialised countries have a lower unemployment rate than Norway. The current situation is characterised by labour shortages in several sectors, including health and education. At the same time, we see signs that some industries will be able to experience a fall in employment. In the workshop industry in particular, further lay-offs have been announced and a number of redundancies can be expected during 1999. Also in the construction sector, a decrease in activity is expected during 1999 and 2000. The engineering industry is largely concentrated along the coast and to some extent forms corner stone holdings in local communities where alternative employment opportunities are often very limited. In order to ensure a level playing field for the Norwegian shipbuilding industry compared to foreign competitors, the Government has proposed to increase the shipbuilding aid to the maximum rates permitted by the EEA Agreement. The government also follows developments in the construction sector closely. In the event of a significant deterioration in the demand for labour in this sector, it will include: could be involved in carrying out some of the State's construction projects. As shown in the 1999 national budget, there is considerable uncertainty about the further development of the Norwegian economy. The government takes this uncertainty seriously, including: through a close follow-up to developments in the labour market. Firstly, it involves monitoring the evolution of the labour market and identifying the needs of the unemployed. Secondly, the Labour Market Act emphasises the dissemination of unemployed to job vacancies. The requirements for professional and geographical mobility of day pay legislation will continue to be strictly practised in the future where this is necessary to fill vacancies. In order to address specific geographical imbalances, priority is given to areas with high unemployment in the allocation of places under labour market measures. The need for changes in the budget for the current year — including the level of action for the second half of 1999 — will be assessed in particular in the context of the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1222	I'm concerned about developments in the labour market, but it doesn't seem like the government is as concerned. The government, with the support of the right parties here in the house, has more than halved the labour market measures from last year to this year, and it does not seem that the government is very prepared to meet the vacancy that all the trade unions say will come. I would also like to say that the government has conducted an economic policy that has given very high interest rates with consequential problems for business as well. In any case, it is now every day in many counties that there are both cancellations and lay-offs, and the alerts are increasing. When the Directorate of Labour says that unemployment is most likely to increase by 15 000 per year, I think there is reason to put in the forces to prevent increasing unemployment, which is a much better medicine than repairing if the unemployment breaks down at a higher level. I want to ask the Council of State: what does the Council of State intend to do? Will the State Council reverse the cut in labour market measures? Will the Government take action to help meet the menacing decline of industry along the coast? Will the Government also contribute to the wage-setting process in order to bring about an important reform of continuing education and training?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1231	I don't know if the government is as concerned as the representative, but we're at least very concerned about the developments in the labour market. And we've always thought that the most important contribution to preventing unemployment is the level of interest rates — operating a fiscal policy where interest rates go down. It seems to go in the right direction. So far, the numbers of leave and leavers have not increased, but actually remained quite stable. We've had meetings with that part of the industry that's signalled the largest number of lay-offs and possibly redundancies, the oil and workshop industry, and they've said that if it doesn't change under framework conditions, something could happen in the third quarter of this year. This means that to the revised national budget we actually have the opportunity to do what we have to do: follow closely and possibly come back with action levels in the revised budget. This is particularly so with regard to the use of measures in the local settings where these damage may occur.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1241	‘Reports and notices of redundancies in the shipbuilding and shipping industries are increasing. It is important that districts that experience this do not lose out on labour and that people who become unemployed quickly receive qualifying services. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the labour market seat has sufficient resources to meet this situation and can provide the necessary qualification, retraining and measures for those who become unemployed?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1248	I refer to my reply that I just gave to the representative Sylvia Brustad, where I mentioned various instruments that a cover on the labour market will be and have been met. The representative, Karin Andersen, expresses in his question the fear that the districts will be drained for the labour force. My experience is that the individual jobseeker’s primary wish is to get a job. Many of those who could be the subject of redundancies in the workshop industry have solid work experience and competence. Several of these will therefore be able to enter job vacancies relatively quickly without the need for new qualifications and without the assistance of the labour market seat. In other cases, it would be desirable for the labour market seat to try to convey the individual to work even if this meant moving. In its assistance to job seekers, the department takes on the potential of the local labour market. However, in some cases it will be necessary to go outside the local area to offer a job. The day-to-day pay legislation requires that a person take up work where it is offered, even if this involves moving. Under certain conditions, such as: However, age and care functions can be registered as a local jobseeker by a jobseeker. As regards the 1999 level of action, the Government proposed in St.prp. No 1 for 1998-99 average 8,000 places. This was reduced to 7000 when the budget was examined. The government also made it clear that the level of action for the second half of 1999 will be further assessed in the context of the revised national budget in the light of developments in the labour market. This will be followed up by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1259	I thank you for your answer. From the point of view of the SV, it is quite clear that the level of interventions is initially too low, so that qualifying measures of different types are offered to a lesser extent than would be desirable. With regard to the impact on the districts and the requirement for mobility, I believe that the Government is a little light on the fact that professional environments built up over many years around the country can be dismantled and difficult to re-establish through such a period of decline. That is why I believe that the instruments of the Labour Market Act should be more active in these situations. Then I have a specific question: is it such that the Council of State could imagine giving opportunities for the labour market parliament to use more of the framework for the first six months if it should prove necessary, so that you can come back to the revised national budget to increase the framework for the second six months? Because when businesses are laid down and people become unemployed, the a-tea must be ready and not wait for weeks and months to go into what everyone thinks is the necessary measures.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1270	I think it is important to maintain mobility in the labour market. Norway is a single labour market, and it is not reasonable to use resources to keep skilled labour available where there is a need for the same labour force elsewhere. It is possible to make some exceptions, as I mentioned in my answer, but I think that we should have as much as possible the common objective that the labour force should be used when it exists. Then the representative had another question, if it was possible to use parts of the framework for the second six months of the first six months. It is a technical question that could certainly have been settled, but we have not yet found the need to come to the Stortinget with proposals for such a redeployment of the funds that the Stortinget has granted for an entire year. But if necessary, there is one way to do it to capture it before the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1280	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Transport: ‘In connection with the County Council of Sogn and Fjordane Left, the Council of State stated that a radical innovation is needed to ensure that the country’s regions are razed. Studies show that Sogn and Fjordane counties have the most dangerous and runaway routes. On Monday, February 14, 1999, there was a race on many fronts in the county, and the most serious one at Row 55 in Fatla between Leikanger and Sogndal. What does the Council of State say, and he wants to point out Sogn and Fjords to a so-called'symbol'?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1289	Racial protection is one of the Government's areas of activity and there is a significant commitment to racial protection measures in 1999. This applies both on the main road network and on the other national road network. In addition, funds have been allocated to specific racial protection measures. I also point out that in a short time, the Ministry of Transport will present the National Racial Protection Plan. A more specific and detailed description of the relevant racial protection measures will be provided here than is natural in more general propositions and messages. The race safety plan will be the basis for the work on the forthcoming state budget and for the work on the national transport plan 2002-2011. However, the focus on racial protection measures also depends to a large extent on how local authorities give priority to the use of pesticides in individual countries. Since the racial protection sections largely belong to the rest of the national road network, local authorities with the new governance system of the State Road Service will have to balance the efforts on racial protection measures with other important road measures. The cost of racial protection measures is very high. For example, the cost of securing only exposed sites in Sogn and Fjordane is estimated at DKK 1.4 billion. Therefore, in the light of the tight framework of the Road Budget, we face major challenges in the field of racial protection policy. In this context, it is particularly important that local authorities think about this when deciding on the priorities of the national drugs strategy. Areas of racial problems can be found in all counties. However, Rogaland, Hordaland, Sogn and Fjordane, Møre and Romsdal, Nordland and Troms are most vulnerable. I haven't thought that it's right to point out one state that is called a symbol state, as the representative Nistad puts it. But I want to go through such challenges in the counties in the context of the national transport plan process.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1300	I thank you for your answer. There wasn't so much radical news in it, as I see it, but it's not the same thing to answer in the main hall as being at the county meeting. I noticed that it was said that one could think that a percentage of the municipal budget was taken. But now the Council of State indicates that there will be no higher frame, and that it will be the local government that must think radically. And when one of them says that it takes $1.4 billion to ensure that Sogn and Fjordane are able to secure their roads, I think they will have problems prioritising them on the municipal budget. I don't think there's going to be much radical thinking, as expectations were after the council's visit to Sogn and Fjordane Left's annual meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1307	I know well what I said at the County Meeting in Sogn and Fjordane Left. I don't say different things in different places, so I didn't say anything else about the state budget there than I do here. But in addition, I said something that I would like to repeat from the Stortings pulpit. I said that after the decision of the Civil Service Budget for this year, all major parties are left with an equally tight frame, including the government parties, the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party. This presents a significant challenge. So I invited you to the following high-thinking, across geographical divisions and party divisions: if you could think of cross-sections as part of the feeding effort, you might have created space in a way that we don't have today. And if possible in the debate on the general local economy, for example: in the conversations between the Municipal Councils and the State, to think in such paths, room could be created. The reason why I addressed this is, of course, that infrastructure measures are vital for life around the country, especially in municipalities linked in very vulnerable housing and labour market regions. Of course, I have these thoughts too fully, and I would like to repeat them very much from the pulpit of the Storting. I have expressed them here earlier, and I would like to repeat them today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1321	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: «Lunner municipality, Lunner general government and nature protection organisations have long asked that the Rv 35 tunnel be 250 metres longer, including to avoid a 17-metre-high stone filling in the middle of a fine open-air area. The Road Administration/Ministry has rejected the idea because of the tight economy, but the same floors will now apply 50-60 million to the project. SEK in interest for the installation to be completed one year earlier. Is it not also room for approx. Ten million. krona to slightly longer tunnel for better environment and traffic lanes to Gardermoen?’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1330	I would like to point out that the premise for the expansion and partial toll financing of the new Rv 35 on the Lunner-Gardermoen route has been implemented through the wholesale treatment of St.prp. No 85 for 1997-98, About partial toll financing of new Rv 35 Lunner-Gardermoen in Oppland and Akershus. As mentioned in the proposal, environmental conditions have been taken into account in the plans for the project. It appears from the toll proposal that the final flat-rate clearance of the parcel from Grualia to the county border between Uppland and Akershus came in the autumn of 1997. Following objections from the State Road Administration Uppland to the Municipality of Lunner on long tunnels, the Ministry of the Environment decided in October 1997 on a State regulatory plan for the Parcel. The decision states that the route shall have a short tunnel. Subsequent proposals for the adoption of this Decision were rejected by the Ministry of the Environment in February 1998. I'm familiar with the toll company working on the advance question. The Ministry of Transport is initially willing to assess progress. However, advances must be assessed on a case-by-case basis according to the guidelines in force and according to the need to meet other obligations. Any advance must be based on local decisions and the Ministry therefore awaits the possible consideration of this matter by local authorities. In my view, however, it is not right to charge increased costs to have previously benefited from the way up to more expensive planning solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1341	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Rv 35 in Jevnaker could be about 50-60 million. kr cheaper if one departs from the line through the centre, where one has to move/cross the line three times. The claim that it is the community that has decided it is wrong. In the case of the tunnel in Lunner, a large majority of the municipal government goes into too long a tunnel. If the municipal council is required to take an additional decision, I do not think that is the problem in this case. I ask the Council of State to take a closer look at this and find the best solution for both the environment and the economy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1350	The core of the problem, to stick to the representative's expression, is that the Storting has taken a decision. Governments are required to follow decisions on enlargement, particularly when they have made clear in the course of the proceedings the underlying conflicts which have been resolved in the course of the proceedings in Stortinget. The question raised by the representative is an attempt to reverse a case that has been raised repeatedly. It is permissible to do so, but at the end of the seventh and last part of the case, when the cases are presented and dealt with in a proper and tidy manner, one cannot be judged by a decision taken by a magnificence. It is also part of the story that I, as the Council of State, on behalf of the Government, presented the proposal that was adopted and that was widely endorsed here in the Grand Duchy. That's the starting point. Other planning solutions for other parcels may come in later – if and when this would be the case.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1361	This question, from the representative Jan Johnsen to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative Bent Höie.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1364	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘On 15 February 1999 the challenge document of the national transport plan was presented. This was on the same day as the consultation period expired. Thus, elected bodies have not had the opportunity to make their views known until important premises have been made. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the national challenge document addresses local points of view and priorities?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1373	The work on the national transport plan is based on guidelines from the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Fisheries. The hearing period referred to by the representative Höie concerns the country-wide challenge documents, which were submitted on 15 December 1998. The deadline for the political examination of the local challenge documents was 15 February, so local authorities have had a good opportunity to comment. The national challenge document was submitted on 15 February. It is a coincidence that the national challenge document was presented on the same day as the consultation period for the state-wide challenge documents expired. The state-of-the-art challenge documents and the national challenge document have been developed by the transport modes locally and centrally, respectively, according to ministerial guidelines. The challenge documents shall contribute to a professional basis for a public debate on key challenges and the use of instruments in the transport sector. At the same time, they shall provide an important basis for the further planning of the bodies. The national challenge document provides, inter alia: recording of the ministry's work on the gross report, but it shall not be sent out for formal consultation. The local points of view and priorities shall be identified in the comprehensive challenge documents and in the policy process that follows. In addition, the budgets shall be set at: On 1 October, a joint country-wide planning document will be submitted to the departments, while being sent to the County Political Consultation. A more detailed annex shall be attached to the quarterly consultation on the implications of the plan for the respective county. Not least for the sake of local political anchoring of the transport plan, it would have been desirable to spend some more time in the planning process. However, I would like to remind you that the bulk of the population against the Board of Government has requested that the plan be promoted one year earlier than the ‘ordinary’ roll-over should be indicated. However, as this review shows, I believe that the approach chosen for the planning process ensures that local views and priorities are heard.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1386	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I agree that the procedure that the Government and Right wanted would give greater certainty that the local anchoring was included in the transport plan. However, I note that the response of the Council of State means that the local views have not been taken into account in the national challenge document. In the context of the presentation of the challenge document, the Road Director made a clear statement on individual projects, including: to Stavanger Aftenblad on 16 February this year. What will the Council of State do to correct the impression that the state road authorities have already drawn important conclusions before the local authorities have at all heard their views on the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1393	There is no reason to note that the state road authorities have reached any conclusion – they have not, and they have not. They have provided views at national level, as well as local examples of open debate. Everyone can take part in that debate and they should take part in it. I want to make sure, of course, that the plan document, which is sent out to the autumn, goes parallel to the states, so that the states have a chance to say what they think about the views that exist. These views will then come to the Government at the same time as what is coming at the centre, so that there is a parallel basis for ensuring that the Storting gets this before it is presented in spring 2000. That's the best we could do. But what the road authorities have done now is to put forward something for debate – they have not concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1401	This question, from the representative Inge Myrvoll to the Minister for Transport, is raised by the representative Rolf Rekvam.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1404	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The deaf and hearing impaired have had strong restrictions on access to extended driving licences since 1 January 1997. This may lead to some losing work due to extended driving licence requirements. This practice has a negative impact on the rights and quality of life of deaf people. Will the Council of State take the initiative to change practices?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1413	The provisions on the acquisition and extension of driving licences are, as is known, harmonised within the EEA territory under Council Directive 91/439/EEC on driving licences. The necessary adaptations to the driving licence regulation came into force mainly on 1 January 1997. It contains in Annex III specific provisions on ‘minimum physical and mental fitness requirements for driving’. However, hearing requirements for the issue and renewal of driving licences in the heavier categories and, where appropriate, driving licences, have been assigned to the national authorities. Those requirements shall be established in the light of the opinion of the competent medical authority, which is the State Health Authority in Norway. From the Health Authority’s guidelines, the following are quoted: ‘Despite the great importance of vision, hearing is not irrelevant to the ability to become aware of traffic incidents. In the interest of passenger safety, strict sensory performance is required for the driver of the bus and minibus. In addition, the driver should be able to hear the passengers. The driving licence regulations therefore require voice to be perceived at a distance of 4 metres without hearing aids for driving licences of categories D1 and driving licence. [[E]] For the other classes there are no specific hearing requirements.» Categories D1 and D are minibus and bus respectively, possibly with trailer. This requirement is in line with practice even before 1 January 1997. The dispensation authority has been assigned to the county doctor and with a complaint to the State Health Authority. As stated in the previous letter from the Ministry of Transport to the Norwegian Deaf Federation, the health provisions of the driving licence regulation are laid down in order to ensure road safety considerations. These are considerations that need to be given great importance to practical policies. I find it difficult to see that there is now a basis for changing the provision in question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1431	I thank you for your answer. I guess it wasn't very uplifting in relation to what was my starting point at least. I had hoped it would be a certain willingness to look at the practice that is established. We know that practice is different, for example. in Denmark, which is an EU country. It is much easier for deaf people to obtain category D and D2 driving licences, which are minibuses. It is quite clear that the intensifications that have been carried out have made it considerably more difficult for deaf people to obtain them, for example. minibus for own use. It could be that they have a large family, and that they need a minibus to transport the family. Nor is it possible for deaf people with established practices, which are intensification. This clearly limits both their profession and their privacy. I would like to repeat my question: is there no willingness of the Council of State to go in and look at the practice that is established to assess whether it is unreasonable?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1436	As long as the health authorities lay down such rules, and this is done for reasons of road safety, I have no intention whatsoever of looking at this. If it can be demonstrated that things are unfair, it is done through complaint proceedings. I follow so stringent requirements in terms of road safety that it is overall. It is also expected of me throughout the national policy on road safety. The review procedure provides an opportunity, if unfairness can be shown in this, and it is clear that I should keep myself informed as to what such appeals entail, to see if there are any views in that context that I should listen to. But that's not how far I've gotten that knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1444	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Church, Education and Research: «During the processing of Innst by Storting. S. No 78 The Reform of Competence, with the support of the Right Party and the Advance Party, was given a majority in order not to give adults legal rights to secondary education. [[1997-98]] According to the Newspaper of Day, 18 February 1999, the Lilletun Council is in the process of changing its position. What is the background for this change?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1453	In the course of the review of the Annual Report on the Reform of Competences on 19 January this year, there were no pluralities in the Stortinget of the Government's proposal to give county councils a statutory obligation to provide further training to adults who do not already have such training. There was also no plurality of submission from the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party to grant an individual right to further training. At the very end of the debate I was asked by the representative Grete Knudsen how I would proceed with this matter. I then replied that I wanted to return to Stortinget with this matter in connection with a communication on the evaluation of Reform 94 to spring. It is important for the Government to allow all the adults who are missing and want to continue training to receive such training. The evaluation of Reform 94 has shown that adults have not come out as well as the intentions were. I said to the newspaper on February 18th. that there may be much to suggest that a statutory right to further training for adults may be a way to go. However, this issue is not adequately addressed, and there may also be other solutions to make Reform 94 a good reform for adults as well. We are now working in the Ministry with a big message about further training to be provided in spring, and where the evaluation of reform 94 will be an important part. In this message I want to outline a step forward for the work on these questions. I hope that the representative Kristiansen understands that I can't say more about this matter right now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1462	I thank you for the answer, which I see as clear positive signals and attitudes relating to the right to secondary education for adults. The fact that the Council of State has a great deal of understanding to ensure the right to secondary education for adults has given me a certain sense of, both in the debate on the reform of competences and in the light of today's answers. It is now known that the income statement will have continued training as one of the highest priority areas, and I see it as important to give signals to the social partners. I just want to confirm what the Council of State stated in the Newspaper, namely that the Government is not against assessing the right to secondary education for adults.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1469	It is quite right that the representative Kristiansen says that this is also a central theme for the Arntsen selection and in the setting that they happily co-consented to the Government. It is also quite clear that the representative Kristiansen and Regeringen have a common goal in relation to the possibility for everyone to receive further training. When it comes to the reality of the matter, I will refer you to what I said about the order in which it will come to the Storting, and then confirm that of course there will be an important theme for the Government in the follow-up to the Arntsen selection.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1474	The president doesn't really know if she was calmed down or not, but we'll have to wait and see.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1480	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘The priests of Bjørgvin Bispedom are invited to sign a coup against Bishop Rosemarie Köhn. There are 11 of the 12 Prostens in Bjørgvin that are behind the attendance of the priests. The notice and signatures shall be published in accordance with the plan. How does the Council of State view such a procedure, and does he feel that it is in line with good personal treatment that superiors in this way pressure employees at a lower level to take a particular position?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1489	I have, as the representative of Dørum, noticed that 11 pros in Bjørgvin Bispedeme have taken the initiative to make a protest against Köhn, and where the bishops are asked to clear up the situation that has arisen in the Church after Köhn's decision to allow Sunde to return to the position as the chapel. I understand that many priests and playwrights now experience the hopes of the Church as a difficult game. I have also noticed that there have been several incidents in connection with this case that express different views. This is not an unusual way of expressing oneself in a democracy. Freedom of expression is both a central human right and a fundamental commitment to democracy. It would be a little wise for the Council of State to punish the pros in Bjørgvin, just as little as in Hamar, to use the freedom they have under Section 100 of the Constitution to express their own views and to advise others to express themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1498	I thank you for your answer. I am not surprised by the answer, but I must say that I am disappointed because I consider the Council of State responsible for working conditions in the Church. In this case, it is clear that general pressure people at a lower level to take a stand on a controversial question. I have noticed that many of the priests themselves react very negatively to this, they feel pressured to take a decision on this matter, and they feel as if one is now going to monitor the theological opinions of the performance on the homophilic question. That's what employees should be spared for. I don't think this is a good way to treat their employees. I would like to ask the Council of State whether he, who is responsible for working conditions in the Church, will deal with this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1503	It's probably possible to argue for the wisdom of signing actions in different circumstances, and it's probably also possible to discuss the best way to organize such an action. But I still want to hold on to my answer, because the next commander of the Hamar Bispedal, the judge, took the initiative of a janitor who supports a definite solution to this dispute in Hamar. There was support for the solution that was also chosen at the end. I do not object to this happening, nor did I get any questions in the Question Time from the representative Dørum about why I did not criticize it. Now there's someone who thinks the opposite, who's made a signature action, and then it would be weird if I were to intervene and punish. I therefore insist on my first answer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1510	Question 20 has already been dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1516	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: «The evaluation report on Kongsvinger – Kristiansund model commissioned by the Ministry of Church, Education and Research from the Norwegian Institute for Research and Education [[NIFU]] Will the Council test the contract model in Kongswinger?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1525	I have evaluated the evaluation report from NIFU, and I have recorded that it provides a thorough analysis of the decentralised business in Kongsvinger and Kristiansund. The main impression from the evaluation is that the decentralised studies in Kongsvinger and Kristiansund have been successful. For most students it has our good search, especially in Kongswinger. Students have a high implementation rate within normal time, 78 pst. in Kongswinger and 75 pst. in Kristiansund, and the level of character is similar to that of the corresponding regular study. When it comes to the question of further financing of the decentralised education provision in Kongsvinger, I see the need to make a more fundamental assessment of the contract model in terms of organisation, operation, audience, etc. in the light of the reform of competences. The decentralised operation in Kongsvinger will therefore be continued as in the previous academic year 1999-2000. In addition, different problem settings and models related to operation and organisation will be evaluated in the follow-up of St. meld. No 42 for 1997-98, the ‘Reform of Competence’, and the exclusion from the selection of Norwegian right-wing education after 2000, the ‘Mjøs’ selection.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1539	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I agree with the Council of State's statement that the decentralised studies in Kongsvinger and Kristiansund have been successful. For Hedmark and, in particular, the Glamdal district, which has been in the educational shade for a long time, this offer has been of great importance. In the autumn of 1998, Kongsvinger was given the opportunity to conduct decentralised nursing and IT training. I would like to take advantage of this opportunity to thank the Council of State for his strong contribution to the realisation of these study offers. I am impressed by the College Foundation in Kongsvinger, which has collected money from many contributors to administrative positions, to furniture and equipment. The foundation is struggling with the economy of the current year. It is therefore important that it does not take too long for the Council of State to take a final position on future organisation, financing, etc. Will the decision of the Council of State be made in good time before the 2000-2001 academic year, and can the Council of State contribute to ensuring the operational capital of the Higher Education Foundation until the decision is made?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1546	I thank you for the nice words. I saw the study center two weeks ago, and as Skogholt said, it was doing a very good job there. I am prepared to be involved in this year's financing. There is a dialogue with the study centre about it, and I am prepared to meet the representative of Skogholt. I should also be involved in a clarification, so that it comes in good time before the next year of study. I'm concerned that what has been shown to be so vigorous must be allowed to live, and then we'll see if it's according to the contract model in some form we're going to organize it, or if it's in another way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1558	I will allow myself to ask a question to the Minister of Church, Education and Research. But before I do that, on the basis of an incursion, I would like to ask to change the wording of the question. There is no change in the content of the question, and it is in agreement with the Council of State. If the President will allow it, I will.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1563	The President will allow it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1566	The question shall then be replaced by the following: ‘Proposal for a new § 3-9 of the Training Act’ – i.e. not the ‘Training Act’, as it originally stated – ‘requires that hearing-impaired young people are legally entitled to further training in sign language or through the use of interpreters. How will the Council of State manage and organise the school interpretation service in such a way that the right to choose training using interpreters becomes real and independent of residence?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1575	In the light of the correction of the question, I will give the following answers: The deadline for voting on the draft is 5 March and the Government intends to make a legislative proposal on this matter in May. The proposal is a follow-up to Stortinget’s decision on sign language in continuing training on the basis of Innst. S. No 275 for 1996-97. There are a number of measures that should be in place before the rights conferred by the proposal can be put into effect, including: work towards better interpretation training. There is a problem that there is a general lack of interpreters, but the department is working to strengthen the recruitment of interpreters. Among other things, as a recruitment measure, the Hågskulen has established an annual study in sign language for hearing. I am aware that the University of Oslo assesses the establishment of a corresponding basic subject. These measures are a follow-up to the review in St.meld. No 8 for 1998-99, About the Action Plan for Disability 1998-2001. This action plan also states that the Ministry will follow up on the issue of the organisation of interpreting services for deaf people at different levels of education. The interpreters at the assistance centres are responsible for providing interpreters for all situations where hearing impairment needs interpreters, with the exception of interpreters in the regular training situation. It is now the responsibility of the municipalities to provide interpretation services for deaf elephants in the primary school, and it is the responsibility of the municipalities in the further training. Several reports show that there is a lack of control and coordination of the interpretation of deafness in the primary school and in the secondary school. The Help Center in the South-Trøndelag has carried out a very interesting project that has lasted over three years, where the Help Center coordinated and administered all types of interpretation in the county. In the light of the experience of this project, the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs has set up a working group to look at how the school interpretation should be organised. The group was scheduled to submit its final report before Christmas 1997. The fact that the report is not yet available shows that this area is problematic. However, I am aware that the final report will be forwarded by the Rikstrygdeverket within a short time, probably before 1 May 1999. The Ministry of Education, Education and Research and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health will then be able to assess what will be an appropriate organisation of the interpretation of the school for the deaf. The aim must be to provide a holistic interpretation service that is consistent with the needs of the users.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1588	I thank the Council of State for your answer. It's true that there's a follow-up to Input. S. No 275 for 1996-97, but it is also a follow-up to the Storting's treatment of training laws and reports by St.meld. No 23 for 1997-98, so that's good. I am aware of the response given by the Council of State to the representative Simonsen on 17 December 1997, i.e. a year ago, that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has set down a working group. The fact that the schedule - before Christmas 1997 - was not kept, as the Council of State said, is only given information. The councils now state that the date can probably be before 1 May, it will also give us information. But I have to add that it has also been said in the first quarter of 1997. When it comes to interpreting training, I would like to ask the Council of State what the department has done in that context. In concrete terms, how active is the department working to recruit the interpreter service?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1597	It is possible that we have said the first quarter of 1997, that was in that case by another Council of State. What I take responsibility for and say I am sorry for on behalf of the Government is, of course, that it has been so long before we have received this report that we are now waiting for. It is my clear belief that it will now be on the table until the mentioned date, and that we will then be able to continue the work in the way that I outlined in my first answer. When it comes to recruitment, it is clear that, above all, it is on the education side that it is the responsibility to be built up and recruited to the interpreting service for the deaf. That's what this department has put on, and we'll continue to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1609	I have a question for the Minister of the Church, Education and Research: «Sculeship «Gann», which educates seafarers, has financial problems since the school bought a new ship. Will the Council of State consider increasing support so that this valuable educational institution can continue to operate?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1618	Initially, I would like to speak with the representative Olaf Gedrem in that Rogaland Sjäjaspirantskule operates a valuable training offer on board the school ship «Gann». The ball is replaced by private ballelova § 26 rule of thumb no. 3rd@item: inlistbox Proposals for this rule shall be determined by means of a budget approved by the Ministry on the basis of proposals from the School. You promise it will be that: ‘85 pst. of the operating costs that come under the base will be covered by government intervention. In the assessment of the operating costs to be included in the background, a emphasis must be placed on the possibility of the most equal assessment of the corresponding facilities for schools. Therefore, it is not possible for a large ship school, which is also expensive to operate, to be given higher shelters than other schools providing corresponding training. The notion of ‘operating costs’ shows that it is not intended that the State should cover capital expenditure for the purchase of a new ship. The school owner is responsible for financing the expenses the school has incurred. In the pre-work for private bullets, it is stated that costs associated with the upkeep of the elephants on board can also be included in the base of the seaspirant bullets. These schools therefore receive higher rates of education than do schools carrying out corresponding training on land. The budget for the Rogaland Sjöaspirant School Year 1998-99 corresponds to a rate of 130,440 DKK per year. student. The discount rate for corresponding schools on land is 80,430 kroner. At the same time as the school bought a new ship, the offer was extended by a class. To cover the expenses for the new class, increase the bill by 556 750 kroner. The school year 1998-99 receives a total of SEK 6 541 600 in government grants. The ball has thus been increased on the basis of an increase in the number of pupils, but not to finance costs associated with the exchange of ships.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1632	I thank the Minister for the answer. Now it's about every year expiring. 60 people from the schoolship. It is an attractive educational institution, and the students who come from this continuing educational institution are picked by Norwegian shipping. There is a high tax on labour presented on the Norwegian shipping market. It fits well with the goal of increasing the number of Norwegian seafarers, so this institution is needed. If the state, as it says in the newspaper, has money for the maintenance of sailing shooters that do not provide education at all, I find it reasonable that during a transitional period, the state considers giving a slightly higher premium to the schoolship «Gann», so that the debt tax can be zeroed out – that's superfluous.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1641	I want to make it clear again that there is a valuable education that is being given, and we need to increase recruitment of the Norwegian crew to the Norwegian fleet. When it comes to the sailors, I would say that it is not possible to compare, because there is also a cultural heritage, which is an independent obligation. We have three sailors, and they have to take care of it. They have a slightly different status. Two of them have the same type of school function as Gan, the third one doesn't. When it comes to whether I am willing to look at this in relation to the current debt tax, it is to say that, after the rates are fixed, there is no money in the budget for that kind of assessment. But at first instance, where a new budget is to be considered, I am willing to have an individual treatment of ‘Gann’.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1653	I will be asked the following questions: ‘NOVA has recently submitted a research report on the living conditions of lesbians and gays. The study shows that young people in this group are particularly vulnerable to harassment, bullying and discrimination. Each fourth is discriminated against at the place of study. Teachers and teaching staff are not currently being trained on attitudes to lesbians and homosexuals or how best to help young people who are in doubt about their own sexual identity. What will the Council of State do to ensure that such information and education are now provided to all teachers?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1662	The relationships that are mapped out in NOVA's report on lesbian and gay living conditions, turbulent me, and the Uroar Regerening. It is frightening that young people in our democratic society are being subjected to harassment, bullying and discrimination because of their sexual orientation. We all have a moral responsibility as fellow human beings, in the workplace or in the place of study, to counteract such an attitude in society. In particular, growing ups must become clearer role models for children and young people by showing respect and tolerance to fellow humans. As Karin Andersen's question points out, the training system also has a responsibility. To inform and work to prevent bullying and discrimination against them, such as: has a different culture, religion, sex or sexual orientation, is a central task for the school. I would like to stress at the same time that it is parents who have the primary responsibility for the children's mission, and the school must therefore cooperate with the world in this area. In addition, we need to be aware that some studies may indicate that young people prefer to learn about sexuality and life from people other than their teachers. In the new basic curriculum, several subjects have suggested that students discuss ethical conflicts and choices related to issues of sexuality, life and sexual identity, among others. Homophilis. The subject is referred to in the subject of Christianism with religious and life views, in social sciences and in the field of nature and the environment. In addition, it is said that lifelong learning and homophilia are a field of knowledge across subjects. I would also like to highlight that other staggering work in general, such as: in the case of bullying and discrimination, there are several approaches to the training. In the new framework for general teacher training, issues related to sexual identity include: technical nature, society and the environment. However, it is the individual school that needs to clarify the content in order for the students to achieve the objectives of the framework plan. Such a local example will find an e.g. at the Högskolen in Telemark. Here, students have created a website on community and sexuality, organized for both students and teachers. The Ministry will facilitate the provision of training for university staff on the subject of sexuality and cohabitation. When it comes to the training of elementary school teachers, the subject of sex literacy will be taken into account as a component of the follow-up training provided by the Ministry in the field of nature and the environment. The State Health Authority informs in a catalogue about the educational arrangements for sex and life that are developed for children and young people. However, teachers show that there is a lack of teaching material in this area. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, in cooperation with the Ministry of Church Affairs, Education and Research, has therefore taken the initiative to develop new educational material on life, sexuality and prevention. The National Educational Centre has thus been given the task of developing educational materials based on basic school curricula, which are aimed at teachers. A specific challenge is enough to assess methods and strategies for deterrent work in this area. [[The President clubs.]] I'm sorry about that, President, but it might have been interesting for the questioner if I kept going, because there's only one follow-up question available today. But I'll leave that to the president.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1677	The President will be able to complete the answer, as it says that the answer should be within three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1680	Thank you for that, President. A particular challenge is enough, as I just said, to assess methods and strategies for deterrent work in this area. The steering group, where the KUF is represented, will review the NOVA report in the further development work. The learning material that is being developed will be disseminated to teacher training institutions, elementary schools and teachers. In addition, it should be noted that in 1999 the KUF will launch a R & D project, the aim of which is to improve the quality of life-related training and the dissemination of value in continuing training. I think that it is through curriculums and development projects that the school can meet the challenges that the representative Karin Andersen is addressing. For the Government, it will be important to see this work across several departments. This is one of the things. in an action plan for the prevention of unwanted pregnancy and abortion, including: sexuality and cohabitation are addressed. However, the NOVA report shows that many prejudices against homosexuals are rooted in society and that there is still work to be done with stagnant and preventive measures among children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1691	I thank you for the answer that shows that the government has taken action and intends to work on the matter. So this has been in curriculum for a while now. Nevertheless, many students say that they have not heard anything about this at all in school. That teachers then, of course, might need some more back-up material to do this job, I understand. It's important to bet on the school, because it's where everyone meets. But I think the most important immediate measure we can take now to prevent this unfortunate development from continuing is to look at our own roles, our statements and the values we communicate with everything we say and do to people with such sexual orientation. This should be a theme such as this. The Value Commission could record. It is also important that we, both the representatives of the Grand Government and the members of the Government, be careful about how we put ourselves into this issue, so that we do not contribute to segregate the prejudices and increase the problems for them.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1700	First, I would like to be allowed to express respect for the way in which the representative Karin Andersen dealt with both the question and the way in which she commented on the answer. There are many who make this separation much easier than it was now. I agree with the representative Karin Andersen that it is necessary that we think about how we express ourselves. And it is quite clear that it may be especially necessary for us who have the view that all church communities should have internal self-government. The fact that we also respect it can be seen as an indirect criticism of those debts. It means that our way of expressing ourselves and our way of dealing with this is terribly important. Finally, I just want to say that being addressed and respected in the way that the representative Karin Andersen did it right now, makes a government council working on this difficult question right now really stretch.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1712	«A majority of Oslo City Council composed of Right, Advance Party and Christian People's Party adopted on 17 February 1999 a decision on the principle of the formation of Ullevål Hospital and Aker Hospital as a limited liability company from 1 January 2000. What are the consequences of a possible transition to AS in two of the country’s largest hospitals for cooperation in the health region concerned and for the achievement of national health policy objectives?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1719	The Sørensen selection, which will soon give up, looks at different types of hospital association. This sample shall analyse the functioning of today’s models, to see if there is a need for adaptation of the models and to assess whether hospital owners should be able to choose between more types of organisational solutions than is provided for in current legislation. When the setting is available, it will be sent to the hearing according to current practice. I want to await the setting of the Sørensen Committee before I generally take a position on a specific organisational model. In the case of any transformation of Ullevål Hospital and Aker Hospital into a limited liability company, this would be a matter which would have to be submitted to the Ministry for a concrete assessment of whether the transformation triggers new approval requirements under the hospital law § 3. Under the applicable law, a substantial change in the activity will trigger re-approval requirements. In assessing this, it will include, inter alia: be central to the structure of the company's statutes and the agreements concluded between the municipality and the company. I cannot give my opinion until the matter has been assessed in the department on the consequences of any transformation of these hospitals into a limited company for regional health cooperation and the fulfilment of national health policy objectives. This will include, inter alia: depend on whether or not the Municipality of Oslo has ensured its ability to manage its activities, so that its obligations under health law can be adequately met. This applies, inter alia, to: the obligation to participate in regional health cooperation and to implement changes in functional distribution, etc. as a result of an adopted regional health plan. The relationship to the labour market for health professionals will also be important here. As mentioned above, the Sørensen Committee's setting will be available in a short time. After the suspension has been at the hearing, I will be able to give more adequate answers to questions about my view now regarding different forms of hospital association. I am aiming for a first feedback to the Stortinget on the basis of the work of the sample in the revised national budget for 1999.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1732	The implementation of the Oslo Decision may allow for the privatisation and bi-dividing of the Norwegian health system. The City Council has also stated that it does not reject the fact that the hospitals as a limited liability company are free to decide whether they will deliver to others other than the public. Thus, the outcome of this Decision may include, inter alia: means that Aker Hospital and Ullevål Hospital are opened to private insurance companies. The decision in Oslo was made with one voice overweight. Is the Council of State concerned that such an extensive decision is being pushed through by a mere majority? And will he take action against the municipality, or against his party traps, which have provided for the majority, and contribute to the conversion of the decision?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1739	I have previously stated in this room that the question of transforming such a large part of our hospital into a limited company is a significant health issue. One of the reasons I took the initiative of the Sørensen Committee was to provide the basis for a national health policy debate on forms of association. I ask respect for the fact that, for the purpose of the sample work, I do not conclude until I have received the setting. But it is clear from what I have said and done in this case that I want to facilitate a treatment in the Storting of these important questions. In relation to the relationship with the Municipality of Oslo, I refer to what I said in my first answer, that the department believes that this question must be assessed in relation to the hospital law § 3. If the Municipality of Oslo does not take care of it, the Ministry will ensure that the matter is taken up and assessed in relation to that paragraph. Moreover, I have noticed that Oslo City Council has not taken a final decision, and that parts of the majority to which it was referred have taken their reservations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1751	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘According to the NTB on 18 February 1999, more than 1 000 Norwegian enterprises, through health insurance, have guaranteed treatment for their employees. One of the companies is Norwegian Hydro ASA, which has purchased private health insurance for its 20,000 employees in Norway. What does the Council of State think that a publicly controlled company insures its employees in the private market in competition with public health?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1760	As regards issues relating to private health insurance, I have previously expressed my opinion on this in the Questionnaire on 5 November 1997. As previously stated, I understand the skepticism that many people have in private health insurance, as well as the fear that some people feel that this can lead to a deterioration in public health. The importance of private insurance schemes depends to a large extent on the confidence of individuals and, in this context, enterprises have in public health. The fact that several companies have gone to the step of purchasing private health insurance for their employees, I take as a signal that the public offer is not perceived as good enough, despite the fact that we have done a lot to reduce the waiting time in Norwegian hospitals and have achieved good results. As I said to the representative of the Kristoffersen in the Questionnaire on 5 November 1997, the shortage of health professionals will affect the availability of public health services and may lead to unacceptable long waiting times for many patients. An increase in private healthcare can lead to a transfer of health professionals to the private market and that is not desirable. However, I think it is necessary to say that the number of people who have bought insurance is not particularly high. And as previously stated, I do not find reason to prohibit this type of arrangement. However, I would like to work towards an ever-increasing improvement in current public health services in order to increase the general confidence in this public service. Increased trust could limit the scope of private health insurance. In the case of hospitals, we have control through the approval system applicable to hospitals. In this connection, I refer to Section 3 of the Hospital Act. It follows from this provision that the establishment of new private hospitals or the substantial extension of existing offers requires approval by the ministry. The assessment of whether authorisation is to be granted may focus on health policy considerations. The draft specialist health service law requires the approval of hospitals to be continued. As for my view that a publicly controlled company like Norsk Hydro is insuring its employees in the private market, I would say that in this context I do not see the difference between a company like Norsk Hydro and other companies. Norwegian Hydro is a public limited-liability company. The State exercises its ownership of Norsk Hydro mainly through participation in and voting at the general meeting. Having said that, I would like to stress once again that I think that the developments that have taken place in this area are regrettable. But it's independent of the company's connection or not to the public. So my answer is not an intervention against these types of schemes, but an intensive improvement in public health.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1780	I fully agree with the Minister for Health that the answer to more private health insurance is a better public offer. I am not going to reproach the individual who, through a private insurance scheme, wants to get a faster treatment offer, or reproach the companies for guarding against workers staying away from work for a long time. However, let me remind you of the obvious adverse effects of private health insurance: there will be different health services for the population depending on both the personal economy and the workplace, by providing more private health services in competition with the public sector, among others. health professionals. A different society is promoted where large groups are excluded, and business-based schemes will show that some groups are excluded. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Health the following additional questions: How can Community priorities be met if private health insurance is further developed?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1789	Whereas the priorities of the Community must be served primarily by the development of Community instruments; By investing in the weakest and most neglected areas of health care, the Government wants to ensure that confidence in public supply can be increased. Through better organisation and more efficient use of resources, we can achieve even better results in this respect. That's what we're doing. The second strategy must be to keep the personnel market under control, primarily in the case of doctors – here, Stortinget has adopted new governance mechanisms in the law – and to ensure the control we have with the creation of new private or expanded private hospital services through the Hospital Act.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1799	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘According to several surveys in the newspaper Nordlys before and after the previous weekend, emergency preparedness in relation to serious radiation damage is centralized to Oslo, while the Regional Hospital in Tromsø has the competence to deal only with minor damage caused by radioactive radiation. Does the Council of State think that it is wise to centralise nuclear preparedness in relation to radiation damage in such a way?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1808	A distinction must be made between nuclear accidents and radiation accidents. In the event of a nuclear accident, such as: the one in the Chernobyl power plant, it is only in the vicinity, i.e. within a few kilometres of the place of accident, that acute medical intervention and treatment have been found necessary. The main problem in Norwegian territory in the case of accidents abroad will be radioactive precipitation, but the radiation doses from such precipitation are usually so small that they do not produce an acute medical effect. However, pollution can represent major problems for the population and society, and it is important to identify the decline and implement measures to reduce radiation doses to the population. This will require coordinated efforts across the country, from many authorities and disciplines. This nuclear emergency response is organised through the Nuclear Accident Crisis Committee, where the State's radiation protection system is a secretariat and is responsible for day-to-day operation. Nuclear accident preparedness is based on a decentralised organisation, with coordination and planning also at regional level. The county of all the counties of the country plays an important role here. Radiation accidents where individual individuals are acutely damaged by radiation and how fast medical treatment is required can only occur when the distance between the patient and a strong source of radiation is short. The most frequent cause of such accidents, including international ones, is an accident involving industrial or medical sources of radiation. Fortunately, such accidents are very rare in Norway. Increased oil activity in the north may increase the risk of such events also in North Norway, but most of the precursors of such radiation accidents in recent years have been in South Norway. Acute radiation damage may also occur in the immediate vicinity of an accident reactor, even if it is a vessel or a research reactor. It passes nuclear-powered vessels along the coast of North Norway, but we also have two research reactors in the East. The current planning of the radiological response is in short the need for all emergency hospitals to have sufficient competence and equipment to avoid the occurrence of early defects that may affect the outcome of the treatment. If necessary, transfer to regional hospital is assumed, or alternatively, resource persons leave for the local hospital. The resources of State hospitals are intended to complement local and regional health institutions, partly by providing professional support to local hospitals without such experience, and partly by providing patients with a need for specific nationwide services, such as: bone marrow transplantation, may be transmitted. In this context, no additional appropriations have been granted to the State hospitals to carry out this task, as it is considered to be part of the general medical service. So the system today is that regional hospitals are responsible for radiation damage within their region in the same way as for all other patient groups, and that the state hospitals, the Rikshospitalet and the Radium Hospital, have a responsibility beyond what can be covered regionally. I can therefore assure the representative Nymo that they do not intend to provide North Norway with any worse emergency medical service in the event of radiation accidents than any other part of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1824	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was a useful clarification in relation to the anxiety and perception expressed in District Norway that all medical preparedness and competence should be centralized to the Rikshospitalet and Radium Hospital. I see it as – the Council of State has to correct me – that medical preparedness for radiation and nuclear accidents is to be taken care of by the respective regional hospitals, and that the state hospitals have a responsibility in addition to that which can be covered regionally. I also remind you that the Foreign Affairs Committee in a position has asked that the Regional Hospital in Tromsø be given a special responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1833	Let me just briefly confirm to the representative Nymo what I was doing when it was about the preparedness for nuclear accidents on the one hand and radiation accidents on the other. The government intends to follow up in line with the statement I made.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1842	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The size has decided to extend mammography screening to become a nationwide offer. Where necessary, private institutions could also be used to put such a scheme in place. More and Romesdal have not yet come under this scheme, and it is worrying that it is your residence address that decides whether to get this offer. What will the Council of State do, so that women in Moors and Romesdal also get the offer?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1851	Mammography screening is now established in the following nine counties: Akershus, Hordaland, Rogaland, Oslo, Telemark, West Agder, East Agder, Troms and Finnmark. In addition, four new counties will start screening this year. These counties are Nordland, Süd-Trøndelag, Nord-Trøndelag and Buskerud. A total of 13 counties will be allocated funds to start work on mammography screening in 1999. Thus, the work on establishing mammography screening for women between 50 and 69 years of age until a nationwide offer has now started well, and will be carried out as quickly as the personnel situation permits, in line with the Storting assumptions. In order for the development to be as successful as it has been in the first four test provinces, proper preparation by the county authorities is required, in cooperation with the professional expert who followed up the test counties. Mammography screening requires point competence in many fields and can lead to a number of unintended disadvantages for women invited to the study without high quality. This applies, inter alia, to: the risk of false negative and false positive tests. It is therefore very important that quality is present at the start of the screening process. This applies both to the organisation itself and to the competence of individual actors in the project. Selection of the counties to be included in mammography screening is based on a thorough professional assessment of the county project plans and in close dialogue with the individual counties. The four new counties selected this year have all project plans that meet the quality requirements set for the project in terms of organisation and access to professionals. There are now six counties that have not yet started mammography screening: Møre and Romsdal, Sogn and Fjordane, Hedmark, Oppland, Østfold and Vestfold. Once the necessary clarifications have been made in relation to the project plans of these counties, the Ministry will take a final decision on which counties should start mammography screening in 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1864	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I guess it's not surprising that I wasn't quite satisfied with that. Of course, the main issue is this, and it might be interesting to ask the Council of State what they think is missing, among other things. in More and Romesdal. Private institutions in this state are ISO-standardised and ISO-approved, which say they have free capacity. I now have my doubts about this issue, but it can be corrected by the Council of State: Have you contacted the private institutes? It is quite clear in the setting of a Document No. 8-proposals submitted by, among others: myself and John I. Alvheim, that you should be able to use private institutions to get this done. I also wonder whether the Council of State will come back in the context of the revised budget, so that among other things. More and Romesdal can get this offer. If you look at the counties that have it, you'll see that it's almost just More and Romsdal, Sogn and Fjordane, Hedmark and Uppland, who are missing this offer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1871	The representative of Nesvik is well aware of the framework for the development of the national mammography programme. Firstly, in the adopted budget, to which the majority of the Grand Duchy has given its assent, there is a limit of four new counties in 1999. The basis for the selection of these four new counties is a strict professional assessment of which counties are most advanced in relation to plans and access to people who meet the quality requirements that have to be met, and so the election is done as I explained in my first answer. I can confirm that the Department is working with the organization of the private X-ray institutes, as the Stortinget has foreseen, and that we will work on further development, as the Stortinget has also asked, as quickly as the personnel situation allows.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1881	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘The Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his European Statement on 19 January 1999 that, among other things, the EU Directive on additives in baby foods is unacceptable to Norway and suggested a possible use of the veto. It has now emerged that the nutrition authorities lack knowledge of the diet of Norwegian young children and will launch a nationwide survey. What, then, is the justification for the Government’s position on this Directive?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1890	In the context of the nutritional consequences of the enrichment of baby foods, two studies are significant, one carried out in the context of the EU Children’s Food Directive and one currently underway. The difference between these two studies is that the former was carried out on a smaller sample of children aged six and nine months in the Oslo area, while the new survey will be a nationwide survey of children aged six months and two years to be repeated every three years to monitor diet in Norway. The study on the Baby Food Directive concluded in the summer of 1998 and resulted in a report describing the nutritional consequences of the implementation of the EU directive on baby food. The working group recommended that the Directive should not be implemented in Norway and that the Norwegian authorities should ask the EU Commission to re-establish the professional base of the EU Scientific Committee. The Scientific Committee of the State Food Authority and the Food Council Working Committee of the State Food Authority reviewed the report and agreed to its conclusions. The recommendations have been followed by the Ministry and the report has been sent to the EU. The Baby Food Directive allows nutrient enrichment to a far greater extent than recommended by the Norwegian health authorities. The principle of food enrichment followed in Norway is that there is a documented need for enrichment in whole or in groups of the population before enrichment is permitted. The food enriched must then be considered as suitable for reaching those parts of the population who need additional nutrient supply. There are a few foods that are being enriched today. The Baby Food Directive sets minimum and maximum limits for some nutrients, while for the other substances that are permitted to be enriched, it will be up to the manufacturer to determine the quantity. This is considered to be a very low favourable situation. The working group concentrated its work on protein, fat, sugar, iron, vitamin D and vitamin A in particular. Model calculations were carried out based on data from daily menu surveys for children six months of age and children nine months of age using the maximum permitted content of the nutrients mentioned above. The study is considered to provide very good data for the consumption of whey powder and infant formulae. Data on the use of food supplements, including Tran, have also been collected. On the basis of these data, the Working Group considered modelling to be very good in assessing the possible intake of nutrients when implementing the EU directive on baby foods. The calculations showed that in the case of maximum additions under the Directive of protein, sugar, vitamin A, vitamin D and iron to powdered wheat, children with high intakes of wheat could have a very high and adverse health intake of most of these nutrients. Country-representative data on diet among infants and young children as a basis for modelling in the report on the nutritional assessment of the EU Directive were not necessary. Model calculations are of such a nature that the available data were sufficient and good for this purpose. I believe that the Government's position on this issue on this basis is very sound professionally based.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1905	I thank you for the answer, although I am somewhat surprised at it. Just to show one example from the working group to which the Minister of Health referred, I quote: ‘The intake of vitamin B for a large group of children, even without the use of tran/vitamin D supplements, could rise to a level associated with an increased risk of vitamin D toxicity in infants and must therefore be considered to be highly adverse to health.’ Now the Nutrition Council says that, among other things, intends this study to find out if two-year-olds have enough vitamin D in them, and they are also afraid that young children may get too little iron in them. I am therefore pleased that a country-wide study is now being launched to provide a safer basis for advice, but I am very surprised that the Government for its part believes that what exists now is sufficient to assess the use of veto.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1915	I must be allowed to say that the suspicion is somewhat mutual, because if a government which is faced with a clear professional recommendation from the working group which has examined and examined the issue and which receives the same recommendation from the Scientific Committee of the State Food Authority and the State Nutrition Council would come to a position different from that of all these professional bodies in general, it would be appropriate for amazement. What I am replying to is that the first study has been done in detail in relation to examining the impact of the provisions of the Babysitting Directive. The second study is part of a regular monitoring of the nutrient intake in young children in Norway. The arrangements and arrangements for these examinations must be understood in the light of the two different purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1920	Obviously, the time of the wonders is not over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1926	‘According to a new report by NOVA on the living conditions of lesbians and gays, there are shocking figures on their mental health. The numbers show that young lesbians and gays are particularly vulnerable, and that every four have tried to take their own lives at least once. There is a high level of lack of knowledge among health professionals regarding the life situation and living conditions of this group. What will the Council of State do so that good help can be given quickly, take these young people seriously on their premises, and bring down suicide rates?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1933	First, let me say that as Minister of Health, I take seriously the information on the mental health of lesbians and homosexuals that has emerged in the media about the NOVA conclusions of the NOVA report. I wish I could say that it's done a lot to meet these problems. I can't. We're talking about a part of the health system, mental health protection, where there's been a failure at all stages due to years of neglect. But we've got it under control. A significant effort has been made to improve the provision of services to the whole population and to improve the provision of help to homosexuals. It is important for me to stress that the development and construction of services and knowledge must aim at serving the entire population, no matter what your needs are. At the same time, however, healthcare needs to have special knowledge of the needs and problems of special groups. Progress plan for mental health should both contribute to the development and development of services in municipalities and county municipalities and ensure that personnel have the knowledge needed to meet people’s needs today. The size of the population has addressed both the reporting of population and the plan of escalation of mental health, the number of new interventions proposed, and the needs of some specific groups have been addressed. The situation of homophiles and lesbians has not been specifically addressed and assessed. I have now asked the Ministry to review the NOVA report and to review all actions in the mental health escalation plan to assess which of the many actions undertaken should also be assessed specifically in relation to this group. Training of health professionals and the need for skills-enhancing measures are part of this, and important prevention measures in the healthcare sector, such as health centres for young people, are different. The representative of Ballo shows in his question that young lesbians and gays are particularly vulnerable, and that every fourth has tried to take their own life. In April, the Children’s Organization has invited adults to a seminar on suicide prevention among children and young people. Homophili has after last week also become the theme there. It is positive and important that non-governmental organisations contribute to the work, because we know that much of the core of the problems is the fear of young people of their own and of others. Information is needed to help ensure that the personal burden is not excessive, especially in the vulnerable young age groups when the identity is to be put in place. Whatever the starting point, this is also about respect for human dignity and respect for the individual. The State action plan on suicide has been in place since 1994 and ends this year. A target has been better follow-up for groups particularly at risk of suicide. I cannot mention all the measures that have been implemented, but will mention that there has been a cooperation with the National Association for Lesbian and Homofil release on various kinds of information activities. When considering the measures and areas with which further work needs to be done after the planning period, the NOVA report indicates that it is important that this target group is included in the further work. It is natural for me to invite the organisations concerned to dialogue in order to clarify how we can best contribute to this on the health care side.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1948	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I note that the Council of State, as well as the Minister for Children and Family, emphasises the treatment aspect. And it's clear that where gay people develop mental disorders because of a lot of mental stress, it's important to have a treatment that can take care of it. Nevertheless, it must be such that it is absolutely essential to prevent mental disorders from occurring. To a very large extent, it should be thought that it is about what attitudes gay and lesbian are encountered in society. Does the Council of State see that a significant cause of this kind of harassment may be that we have had a society that has dealt with homophilic issues with too much intolerance, and that this has created identity problems for young people in a growth phase, so that they have developed mental disorders for that reason?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1957	I do not want to place a unilateral emphasis on treatment provision in this context. The plans I referred to, both the psychiatry plan and the suicide plan, are largely preventive. I also agree with the representative, Mr Ballo, that the centre here, among other things. must be to meet people with respect, regardless of the differences they represent. That's the central one. And it must be possible to reconcile that with a debate on political issues related to gay rights in society. It is fully possible to have a substantive and sober debate on these issues without condemning and without troubling human dignity and human rights. It's a combination that I'll stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1967	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘In the daily newspaper of 22 February 1999, it appears that the Council of State has given guidance that Muslims who have converted into Christianity, and thus are at risk of discomfort in their home country, will automatically be allowed to stay in Norway without further consideration of the matter. Does the Council of State consider this to be in line with the legislation in this area?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1976	I would like to start by clarifying that complaints about rejection of asylum in its entirety are handled by the Ministry of Justice. The Directorate of Foreign Affairs is the first instance. The Ministry makes an individual assessment of all the facts raised in the application and in the complaint. Both the credibility of the alleged grounds for asylum and the likelihood that these conditions will lead to persecution must be assessed. That Muslims convert to Christianity does not result in automatic residence in Norway. This is also clear from the Ministry of Justice letter to the Directorate of Foreign Affairs on changing practices in this area. The credibility of a claimed relationship is assessed on the basis of the asylum seeker’s explanation, actual circumstances and our knowledge of the country of origin. As far as the persecution risk is concerned, it is assessed in the light of your knowledge of the applicant’s country of origin. When an asylum seeker is baptized in the context of an application for asylum, a credibility problem may arise. The key elements of the assessment are whether the conversion has taken place after a training period or in response to a final rejection. The Ministry attaches importance to the assessment of whether the asylum seeker has undergone training, has knowledge of Christianity, goes into religious services, whether family members have converted, and whether baptism has been carried out. There are relevant opinions from the convertit's pastor in this respect. The priest will be the closest to commenting on the relation of the convert to Christianity. The pastor will often have had conversations and given guidance and perhaps also training. If a priest has done well to ensure that the asylum seeker actually has enough knowledge of Christianity to make a real choice, this choice should be respected. The ministry does not want to make an assessment of a convert's piety or theological insight, as the choice of religion is a private relationship. On the other hand, a conversion could easily be regarded as a pro forma if the convert has no knowledge of Christianity at all. When the Ministry finds it probable that the applicant for asylum has converted, this ratio will be part of the overall assessment carried out. A Norwegian priest will not have the prerequisites to assess the impact of the baptismal act on a possible return, for example. to Iran or another Muslim country. This condition is assessed by the Ministry. Each appeal case is assessed in a concrete and individual way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1989	I thank you for your answer. It was good with a round that I felt was somewhat more elucidating than the statements that fell from the political team in the department in the debate that followed this look-up and that for most people were perceived as more confusing than clarifying. But I still have a clarification I would like to confirm. When the Council of State says that the opinions of the clergyman are important, I assume that it means – that just as in the past, the opinions of the clergyman, as of other professionals in other kinds of matters, are to be focused on and of importance, but not decisive in relation to the outcome. When it comes to matters where it is clear that persecution will take place if he is a Christian, so that the decisive point of whether or not he is allowed to stay in the country is whether or not he has become a Christian, I assume that it will continue to be that the priest's recommendation and the priest's view on it will be decisively important – but not of such a nature that it will not be over-tested, as it has been said. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e1999	The President will remind you that speaking time is limited to one minute, and will ask the representatives to stick to it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2002	Let me first say that it is important that we in Norway provide protection for people who are being persecuted, even for their own sake. Let me make it clear that what has been said clearly is that the opinions of the clergyman regarding the conversion of the convertite are to be included and given emphasis in the overall individual assessment that the ministry must make, but of course they should not be decisive for the outcome of the case as such. On the other hand, I must say that the department must be withholding – and that is the point of this case – from going in and reviewing the pastor's assessment of whether a reversal has actually occurred. But it's a nuance, as part of the proceedings, and only as part of a whole in the individual case.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2010	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘Five young people were sentenced one year ago to prison and probation under supervision for a number of conditions, of which the most frequent. Nearly a year after the verdict was passed, and more than two years after the last raids, the young people have not received a criminal response or supervision as the sentences have not been passed on to criminal justice in freedom responsible for the execution of the sentence. Does the Council agree that this is unacceptable and that something must be done immediately to put an end to such practices?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2019	One of the central purposes of a criminal reaction is to help prevent the offender from falling back into criminal activity. One of the means of achieving this will be the supervision of criminal justice in freedom. In particular, in relation to young offenders, such follow-up could have a beneficial effect. It is the courts which may, in the case of a conditional court, supervise the proceedings. According to Section 53 of the Criminal Act, the general rule is that the period of supervision is one year, and this runs from the day the judgment is enforceable. Based on the time-frames laid down by legislation for the implementation of supervision, it is essential that this should be established as soon as possible. Late implementation could weaken the impact of this crime prevention action. In the context of the execution of criminal sentences, it is the responsibility of the police to ensure that criminal justice is freely linked so that supervision can be established. In order to ensure that the time during which supervision is to be carried out is not wasted by the time of proceedings, effective procedural procedures are important. In the specific case underpinning this issue, the criminal conviction was enforceable on 31 July 1998, while the criminal justice in freedom was only connected at the beginning of January 1999. This is completely unsatisfactory. Based on the experience of this and some other cases, the Oslo Police District has now changed its internal procedures to transmit the criminal convictions to the Enforcement Office within one week. It is also stressed that, among other things: judgments in charge of supervision must be dealt with in particular expeditiously. This should therefore ensure a much faster establishment of supervision than was the case in the case on which the question from the representative Nymo was based.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2034	I thank the Council of State for a positive response. The slow application of judgments allows many convicted persons to be guilty of new criminal offences or to break probation. The majority have said on several occasions that matters involving violence and young offenders must be given priority. It is therefore very important, not least in relation to the respect for Storting’s intentions and the trust in the Norwegian judiciary, that resources be deployed and given the necessary priorities, so as to avoid experiencing something similar for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2044	I would like to ask the following questions to the Council: ‘A single staff member of the Department of Foreign Affairs of the Ministry of Justice requests that an ‘applicant’ who has applied for refuge in a church in Oslo be apprehended. The Churchesylant has threatened a case handler in the department nearly 120 times in the past few months. In 1995, it was decided to expel the ‘asylant’ from the country. Still, a exiled criminal stranger lives in the country because he is staying in a church. What will the Council of State do to ensure that a final judgment confirmed in this case is complied with?"
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2053	I'm aware that one of the department's employees has been exposed to phone chikanas from a church asylant, and the relationship has been reported to the police. The Ministry of Justice, as an employer for the case handler, has asked the police to intensify their efforts to track down the talks and to assess what measures could be taken. On behalf of the case handler, the Norwegian Civil Service Team has asked for an attack on the church asylum. In 1994, the Churchesylant was sentenced to six years and three months in prison for participation in the introduction and storage of 417 grams of heroin. On this basis, he was expelled from Norway by the Ministry of Justice Decision of 21 December 1995. The expulsion decision was filed with Oslo City Court, and the State was released by judgment of 25 February 1998. By its decision of 18 March 1998, he was refused his application for asylum. The decisions are not effective, because he has gone to church asylum. A person expelled from Norway who has received a refusal to apply for asylum is obliged to leave the country. By going to church asylum, he chooses not to respect a legally executed decision. On the other hand, we respect the peace of the church, and the police therefore do not collect foreign residents under coercion in the church room to enforce administrative decisions. This applies to all foreigners, regardless of whether they have received a refusal to apply for asylum or have been expelled from Norway for criminal offences. Finally, let me make it clear that the decision to apprehend people who are in church asylum and who commit criminal acts is a matter for the prosecution.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2068	I think it was a slightly eye-catching response from the Council of State. I would nevertheless like to thank you for your answer. It seems to me that the state of law is flattening for foreigners who have taken the law in their own hands and are applying to the church for church asylum. In the church today, criminal asylum seekers may be present on the basis of what the Council of State has just said. There you are safe, there is no Norwegian law. And why not? Well, because it's not the political will of the big crowd to let the police go into churchrooms to pick up convicted foreigners. In this specific case, colleagues and the trade union react. They believe that there is legal certainty when the public protects a criminal conviction that commits acts of terrorism from church asylum. The department is clearly unable to get anything done. But I have to ask the Council of State the following question: What does the Council of State want to do to ensure that Norwegian law applies to the entire kingdom, regardless of race, faith, religious affiliation or citizenship?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2077	The ministry's attitude to church asylum has recently been tested in Stortinget, and the position I have outlined is consistent with the position taken by a majority in the Stortinge when it came to respect for the Church and the Church. It applies regardless of the reason why people have gone to church asylum, whether there is an expulsion or whether there is a refusal to apply for asylum. That's one side of the case. The other side of the case concerns the question when a church asylum from the church commits illegal acts. That's what I've been saying to the police. The specific case has been reported to the police. I also referred to the initiative taken by the Ministry of Justice. In addition to this, I have nothing to tell you at the moment about the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2085	I will ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘27. In March 1998, five child-rearers were sentenced to conditional prison sentences for punishment, abuse and violence. One of the reasons given by the court for the extremely mild judgments was that the rapists had ‘a lower threshold for the conduct of criminal offences than normal’, partly because of lack of recreational services. Will the Council of State take initiatives to prevent it from being used as a justification for lower penalties that there is not enough public recreational services?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2094	I cannot comment on whether a ‘true’ punishment has been measured in the specific case referred to by the questioner. However, I would like to point out that as I read the judgment, the question depends on an understanding of the judgments which I cannot share. Court of First Instance’s observations on the lack of public-service leisure activities. have been made in connection with the discussion of whether criminal offences have been committed in the context of recrime. This question had a certain significance for the guilt question, so the question of whether the defendants could be punished after the appeal. However, the Court does not appear to have assigned the elements of leisure services, etc. the decisive weight of the criminal evaluation itself. Criminal law rarely imposes specific obligations on judges as to what is to be given weight in criminal proceedings. It is an important principle in Norwegian law that criminal investigations are carried out on a free basis for each case. This means that the judge in the criminal investigation takes a position on a number of points. These elements have been developed through very comprehensive case-law and theory. The emphasis given to the different elements must be specifically assessed in each case. That's what I think it should still be. Therefore, I would not propose legislative changes that regulate the factors that can generally be given weight in penalising individual cases.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2106	Of course, the punishment must be determined by the court on the basis of a free basis in each case. But in this case, it seems as if it has been used as an excuse for very serious crime such as robbery, violence and abuse that there is a lack of leisure in a city, and that has led to the attackers escaping to prison but receiving a conditional punishment, which, in my opinion, is in fact no punishment. It is totally unacceptable in my opinion. If the Council of State wants to do something about this issue, he can impose minimum penalties saying that it is impossible to provide such low penalties for so serious crime. I have two question-time questions here, and I expect the Council of State to respond to this in connection with my other question later today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2113	I will be allowed to come back to the general question later in the Questionnaire. Let me just stress that I am still of the opinion that the representative Simonsen's question does not make quite well with regard to the premises in the specific matter to which it refers. Its name is, among other things, in the judgments of the Court of First Instance, in relation to the claim that the criminal matters in question are debatable here: ‘However, the Court makes it clear that it does not wish to trivialise the facts described in the appeal decisions, in particular those which have been subsumed as outrageous. In the opinion of the Court, this concerns serious matters even if the use of physical violence has been modest or absent.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2126	I have to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘27. In March 1998, five child-rearers were sentenced to conditional prison sentences for punishment, abuse and violence. One of the reasons given by the court for the extremely mild judgments was that the rapists had ‘a lower threshold for the conduct of criminal offences than normal’, inter alia, because they were of foreign origin. Will the Council of State take initiatives to prevent the ethnic origin of criminals from being used as a justification for lower penalties?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2135	The President will say that it is a voluntary matter to ask questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2138	I refer you to the answer I just gave to the representative Simonsen. In addition, I would like to point out that from the judgment of Oslo Byrett of 27 March 1998, I cannot see that the law in criminal proceedings has stressed that foreign origin itself is a mitigating circumstance. This relationship was also drawn into the discussion of whether the act had been committed as part of recrime, which in turn had a certain significance for the guilt issue. Criminal law rarely imposes specific obligations on judges as to what is to be given weight in criminal proceedings. It is an important principle in Norwegian law that criminal investigations are carried out on a free basis for each case. This means that the judge in the criminal investigation takes a position on a number of points. In my view, what emphasis is given to the different elements must be specifically assessed in the individual case. It should still be so. Therefore, I would not propose legislative changes that regulate the factors that can generally be given weight in penalising individual cases.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2147	I am fully aware that it is a voluntary matter to ask questions. That's why, President, I made it clear that this question was so important that I saw the need to use my right. But then to the follow-up question. Is the Council of State, whose judges were to assume that people have ethnic origins and use them as grounds for judging the punishments for the serious criminal acts they have committed, that it is right and fair in a state of law such as Norway? I expect the Council of State, even if he does not want to interfere in individual matters, at least glistening clearly and clearly express what the Government and the Minister of Justice believe in such an important matter. Signals may also have their effect.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2154	I agree with the questioner that signals are important in criminal policy, but it is my opinion – and I think in particular this last week's debate underlines the importance of it – that political signals about which elements to focus on incrimination are not desirable. And that's what I'm based on pretty long case law and theory in Norwegian law, and I'm actually of the opinion that it should still be like that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2162	I will be allowed to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘27. In March 1998, five child-rearers were sentenced to conditional prison sentences for punishment, abuse and violence. Will the Council of State take initiatives to prevent the imposition of as low a penalty as conditional prison sentences for as serious crime as punishment, abuse and violence?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2171	I can't or will not intervene in the criminal investigation of the individual criminal proceedings. The question has to be whether or not I will take the initiative to increase the penalties for crime related to the exercise of justice and violence, etc. Today, the law has no restrictions on the right to impose conditional prison sentences. However, in the course of the preparatory work it is provided that conditional prisons are not normally to be sentenced in the event of serious crimes; conditional prisons for more than one year are to be used only in very special cases. First of all, it is the Supreme Court that has drawn up guidelines on when conditional prisons are to be sentenced. In the event of some violent crimes, the Supreme Court has been unwilling to accept conditional judgment. Practice also provides guidance on a number of factors that may indicate that conditional imprisonment is being imposed in cases where punishment should otherwise have been unconditional. Such a moment is that there has been a long time between the criminal offence and the sentence, without the defendant being prosecuted for it. Such a view appears to have been decisive in the matter to which the questioner refers. As mentioned above, I cannot comment on whether the court has measured the right punishment in this case. However, in my view, the judgment does not indicate that changes should be made to the conditional judgment rules. I point out that the Penitentiary Commission in its fifth partial investigation, among other things, have assessed the rules on conditional judgment. The Commission has found that there is no need for substantial changes. In my view, however, the judgment illustrates one of the unfortunate effects it may have if criminal proceedings take too long: the punishment was milder than it would otherwise have been. It's unfortunate. The Ministry of Justice, together with the national lawyer and the other actors in the criminal justice system, is working to reduce the length of proceedings in criminal matters. Among other things, yesterday a symposium on effectiveness in the criminal justice chain was organised. Important material and experience emerged here and the department as well as other actors will continue to work on it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2184	We are faced with a very concrete example of the extremely mild penalties imposed for very serious crimes of the type of abuse and violence. My question is entirely general. You see that happens. So regardless of whether it's justified that it's been a long time before the sentence came up, or anything else, these criminal youths are allowed to zone on the street. They can walk around the pubs, they can walk around and smoke hash in secret, even if they're supervised, they can go to the cinema – they can do whatever they want. And this is called punishment. I'm not calling this punishment at all. So the Minister of Justice says he doesn't want to do anything about this. He does not want a general rule in the Norwegian penal code that says that it should not be possible to impose such mild penalties. I'm shocked and scared about that. And it just proves that the Christian People's Party continues with its stupid genius in relation to criminals, and gives criminal youths a signal that it's positive and good to steal and rob and do violence against others.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2191	The President would say that he did not think that'stupidism' is a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2194	I take a sharp distance from the accusations that the representative Simonsen is now addressing the Christian People's Party and the Minister of Justice in terms of signals to Norwegian youth. I also distanced myself from what he said that I expressed that I would not do anything. What I said was that I agree with the Penal Court's conclusion that no changes should be made to the conditional judgment rules. But I also said that the problems that seem to be the basis for such a judgment in this specific case – namely, that there has been such a long time – are matters with which the Department and the Council of State are most concerned. I referred to concrete measures that we have in progress in this way, and I also refer to my reply to the representative, Mr Nymo, about what the Oslo Police Chamber has done for itself.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2204	I would like to ask the Council of State High Council the following questions: ‘It is decided that only 50 students will be allowed to start the studies for the autumn at the Police College in Bodø. In the autumn of 1997, 72 students were admitted. This is a reduction from three to two classes. Many students have been referred to Oslo for current school years. Does the Council of State consider that a reduction in the number of places of study at the College of Police in Bodø is in line with the intention of the Storing Decision taken in June 1996, where was the wish to improve the recruitment of skilled police officers to North Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2213	The total student intake has been reduced from 432 in 1998 to 250 in 1999. It is in line with the budget decision of the Grand Duchy. In order to make the best possible use of the fixed resources both at the Oslo Police College and at the Bodø branch, we have chosen to reduce the number of student places at both universities, however, so that Bodø will have a higher recording than a proportionate reduction would suggest. The reduction of student places for 1999 has, as you know, the background to a review of the future needs of police-trained personnel. Compared to today’s job figures, access to police-trained personnel will be good. A good access to police-trained personnel will thus help ensure a better recruitment of skilled police officers to North Norway as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2229	There is clearly a connection between the Oslo Police College and Bodø, but I choose to deal with Bodø in this case. A consequence of the cut in the total recording and a lower number of students and classes may in fact be that hiring teachers in full positions will be very difficult, especially in Bodø. In order to establish a somewhat professional environment, three classes were established in the autumn of 1997 because one had this in mind. This has led to an increase in the number of so-called qualified applicants from North Norway. That's exactly what Stortinget's intention is to improve recruitment in North Norway – and that's my main message. I would like to ask the Council of State – one last question – whether he believes that such a trend in number of classes can be defended when the Government itself claims that it should strengthen law and order in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2238	As I said in my first answer, this reduction is part of the implementation of the adopted State budget for 1999. I can assure the representative, Stang, that the department is also involved in recruitment in North Norway, and that is why the budget is implemented to some extent to protect the branch in Bodø. We will follow the recruitment in North Norway in the future, in the light of the review of the need for police-trained personnel that is now to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2248	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: ‘According to the 1996 Oslo Municipality Police Code, the landowners are required to manage the bedding and fencing of neighbouring municipal pavements. This imposes a significant burden on many landowners. The current system is said to be inadequate. The law house to oblige the landowners instead of the Municipality of Oslo to manage the bedding and fencing of municipal pavements has been questioned, most recently by Professor Fleischer. What is the Council of State’s assessment of current practice and its legal basis?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2257	The question gives me the opportunity to explain the legal situation in this area – if I may say, President: on a day when the question seems very relevant. Law of 4 August 1995 No. 53 § 14 nr. 2 allows the individual municipality to decide that house or landowners must keep it clean and tidy on a pavement or similar area in immediate proximity to the property, clear of snow and bedding when it is smooth in accordance with local customs. The reference to local customs refers to practices which are governed by law in each municipality. Such customs exist in a number of municipalities, including Oslo. However, there are strict conditions under which a custom in this area could be accepted as a custom, and the Ministry of Justice has strict practice in assessing whether such practices have developed. If not already established, e.g. in the context of the previous confirmation of local police regulations, the development of one or more customs in this area, details of the practice, age, scale and regularity are obtained, and the general perception among house and/or landowners that they have a duty to clean pavements and reindeer – so-called feisty – the obligation to litter by smooth running or snow removal after snowfall. With regard to the obligation to clear the pavement for snow and ice after takas, the Ministry has assumed that the municipality can give such a provision, even if local custom is not available. In a letter dated 12 March 1996 to the Municipality of Oslo, the Ministry of Justice of Oslo stated that it was assumed that the provisions of the clean-up chapter were within the scope of the political statute in force on 21 May 1979. The existence of a local practice of this nature and the extent to which it may be relied upon shall be ultimately decided in the courts. As early as 1922, the Supreme Court has accepted that the municipality can make regulatory provisions in the police code and that the landowners of Kristiania have been obliged to clean the pavements outside their properties. The new police law confirmed and maintained the previous legal status. How these problems are solved in practice must be based on cooperation between the house and landowners, the municipality and the police. The very enforcement of the police code is limited to police and prosecution authorities. I am not looking after this reason to review these questions again so soon after the new police law came into force.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2278	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I should have made the question even more relevant by including mowing, but I have not. When it comes to the legal comment itself, I can't get any closer to it right now, and I just want to thank you for the answer I've received. But I would like to ask an additional question: how does the Council of State assess today's practice, does the system we have today work?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2285	I don't think I'm going to go into any broad and analytical review of how today's practice works. I have explained how the legal situation in this area is to be perceived, and my general impression is that this is not a very conflicty area. There is also some of the background to the conclusion I came to in my main response. But I have to admit that there is a question that requires a little more review and analysis than what I have been able to do before this main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2294	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘The periodic penalty payment imposed on Oslo Circuit Prison for lack of fire safety has been in force since 1 February 1998. The daily fee shall be charged to the ordinary operating budget of the prison. This is unsustainable. When do the Council of State consider that the work on the required improvements has been completed?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2303	Oslo County Prison v/east Prison District sought in November 1998 the Municipality of Oslo, the Fire and Rescue Department to assess a reduction in the periodic penalty payment on the grounds that major fire technology improvements had been made at the time of the prison. The fire and rescue unit agreed that major improvements had been made, but that some measures remained before the fire safety was satisfactory, not least when the remaining work was on sealing pipe, cable and ventilation penetrations. They therefore refused to reduce the fine, as they considered that there was no basis for it in relation to the work that remained to bring prison to an acceptable level of fire technology. I can assure you that the work is still in progress. This is complicated work because the building mass is large and old. It is therefore not possible at this stage to specify an exact time for completion, but it is likely that the work as a whole will continue in 2000. There is continued contact with the Municipality of Oslo, the Fire and Rescue Department, with a view to reducing the fine as work progresses forward, and the Ministry will follow these developments closely.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2312	I thank you for the answer, and I note that someone, in the opinion of the Council of State, has arrived a while ago. But this question was up here in Stortinget a year ago. Already then it was pointed out that it had been a long time, and now another year has passed. This concerns the safety of prisoners and those who work in prison, as well as working conditions and the burden on those who work in prison. In addition, it is unsustainable, as I said on the very question, that this is a burden on the prison operating budget, which is already tight. The follow-up question to the Council of State must be: With regard to the operating budget, will the possibility of the unreasonable burden on the operating budget of Oslo County Prison be removed? I feel that it is necessary to press even more on here. The fact that no reduction inmulch has occurred until now shows that one has not come far enough. Here it's been a long time, so I just have to encourage the Council of State to press on so that the fire safety can get in order.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2319	Let me say that I agree with Mr Rasmussen's representative that rapid progress in this work is highly desirable, not least in the interests of those directly affected. Let me also make it clear that the fire safety work itself is covered by investment funds, while the continuing day shift so far is covered by the normal operating framework of the Eastern Prison District. Our primary starting point is to ensure good progress in the work of the department, and that a continuous contact with the Municipality of Oslo is to reduce and phase out this day ticket as it is based on the fire-technical assessments. As I said, the department will follow closely. And if this day ticket ran over a very long time, I agree that one must look into how it should be covered in.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2331	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘It has attracted attention that the police chief in Bodø believes that people should report fewer cases, because the police have too much to do. It may seem like a paradox that the same police chamber a short time ago was the first one that had the capacity on its own initiative to investigate possible illegal Brustad arches. So even the police can be confused by all kinds of laws about this and hints. Does the Council see any solution to this dilemma?'
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2340	The police framework conditions have been established through Stortingen's assumptions, the Ministry's governance documents and the National Attorney's priorities. The priorities set out the priority areas of crime where research resources are scarce and it is the responsibility of the police officer to ensure the proper disposal of resources within these frameworks. It is the police's duty to receive reports of criminal offences, and it is obvious that the public should be able to contact the police without having to assess for themselves whether police resources should be used on the basis of a notification. I have a particular impression that the notifications submitted to the police are mainly subject to a careful ex-ante assessment by those who feel offended and that a few so-called unnecessary notifications are made. It is unfortunate that there has been an impression in the media that can be interpreted in such a way that the audience has to report fewer cases in order to limit the police’s workload. This is not a current issue for the police and the army. Within the limits given, I feel confident that the police are consistently prioritizing their tasks in order to enforce the laws given by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2353	I would like to thank you for your answer. After the circumstances, I think it was a very satisfactory answer. I noticed in particular that the Council of State certainly claimed that it has created an unfortunate picture that the police are not investigating reported cases – I notice it with satisfaction. The second part of my question was whether this should lead to greater restraint with regard to making new laws on this and this hint, which was my formulation. Of course, I fully understand that the Council of State cannot interfere with it, but I can well say so that the Storting would have no objection if the Council of State wanted to express its opinion on that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2362	I note that the representative Hernæs believes that Stortinget would have no objections if I expressed my opinion. My opinion is that the laws which the Storting considers it necessary to adopt are to be enforced by the bodies entrusted with such enforcement. Then it will be the cause of the Biggest to assess the extent to which legal regulations are to be made in the individual areas, and the extent to which criminal offences are to be imposed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2372	This question, from the representative Siri Frost Sterri to the Minister for Development and Human Rights, will be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Development and Human Rights.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2375	I have the following questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who I understand answers on behalf of the Minister for Development and Human Rights: ‘Norway provides substantial assistance to Zimbabwe despite the fact that it has a corrupt and authoritarian regime with serious violations of fundamental human rights. Will the Council of State stop assistance and thus help Norwegian aid funds to benefit from the deployment of countries following acceptable governance principles?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2384	The government is very concerned about the setbacks for democracy and human rights in Zimbabwe recently. This is the situation we have raised in clear order with the country's authorities. Already on 29 January this year, we made a joint effort in Harare with other donors, such as the European Union, the United States and Japan. There was strong concern about the situation of legal certainty and freedom of the press in the country. We asked that the charges for assault be investigated, and that any attackers be brought to justice. As a result of a lack of response from the Zimbabwean side to donor countries' requests, and as a result of President Mugabe's opposition to the courts and the press, on 16 February we followed up with a new referral to the Zimbabwean authorities through our embassy in Harare. The representative, Frost Sterri, raises the question of any assistance sanctions. In recent years, Norway’s assistance to Zimbabwe has been in the range of 110 to 120 million. kr per. years. Assistance is highly poverty-oriented. The social sector, in particular primary health and water supply in rural areas, is clearly the largest area of action. Assistance also includes support for the work against HIV and AIDS. We on the Norwegian side have a continuous and critical assessment of our assistance to Zimbabwe. We have over time briefed assistance towards increasing the emphasis on democracy and human rights. This process is now accelerated as a result of the negative developments in the country. The Ministry, NORAD and the Embassy of Harare are now redeploying funds for measures to support human rights and democracy. This distortion of aid means that a greater proportion of Norwegian aid will be channelled through independent, non-governmental organisations. This will support the forces in Zimbabwe working for democracy and respect for human rights in the country. Zimbabwe has previously been notified of its current status as a pilot country for cooperation on industrial development. In the light of recent developments, we have decided to delete Zimbabwe as a cooperating country for this project. The Norwegian measures are a clear signal of our dissatisfaction with the political developments in Zimbabwe. If negative developments continue, we will consider further measures.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2403	I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answer. It is gratifying to hear that there is now a high level of criticism and ongoing assessment of the need to maintain assistance. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that redeployment of aid funds can be correct in the situation that is now under way. For we can hope that what will be done in that case will be useful in the construction of democracy. However, significant funds continue to be used to support projects under the responsibility of the Mugabe regime. The question is whether these means will help to bring the population out of poverty on a lasting basis. I just want to remind you of the World Bank study, which concludes that aid will benefit if countries follow sound governance principles. Zimbabwe does not do that today!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2412	I agree with Mr Frost Sterri on the characteristics of today's regime in Zimbabwe. The problem we're facing, not just Zimbabwe, but many of our countries of assistance, is that we're dealing with regimes that are not entirely satisfactory, while we have people who suffer. What is our dilemma, and what is our problem, which we have to constantly assess, is how we can help the poor population while supporting human rights, without supporting totalitarian regimes and trends. I understand that the representative Frost Sterri agrees with us that this is a matter that needs to be assessed on an ongoing basis for Zimbabwe. And we will.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2421	For the sake of order, the President will draw attention to the fact that the scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is soon to come. We have three questions left, and the President proposes that the meeting continue until these three questions are dealt with. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2427	‘In Westfold, the legal right of the general public to move freely along the shoreline of a completely unsustainable dispensation practice is violated. The County has submitted a report showing that up to 600 out of 750 applications for a derogation are being granted. This is totally unacceptable and contrary to the law, and requires prompt action. What will the Council of State do to clean up this crime, if necessary how will she ensure that the beach zone becomes for all?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2434	I agree with the representative of Langeland that some municipalities have had a very bad practice in terms of exemptions. Extensive use of the derogation will in itself lead to the municipality being left with a plan that is useless both for expansion and for protection. In particular, it is important that exemption is not unnecessarily used in areas of particular general interest, such as: in coastal and marine areas of the Oslofjorden. Unfortunately, in this vulnerable area, we have seen several unfortunate development measures allowed by derogation and contrary to national policy guidelines for this area. This is documented, inter alia: by a study carried out by the Norwegian Institute for Urban and Regional Research in 1996. The Department takes the unfortunate dispensation practice very seriously. In St.meld. No 29 for 1996-97, Regional planning and land policy, dispensation issues have been addressed. This is indicated, inter alia, by: that the high proportion of accepted applications for a derogation raises the question of the functioning of the planning system as foreseen. Unlucky dispensation cases lead to a bit of bit-extension in contravention of the objective of sound and long-term land management. The Ministry will therefore intensify the municipalities that they must be careful to use the freedom to grant a derogation. The Ministry will also take initiatives towards the county councillors in the counties concerned in order to clarify the understanding of the requirement of the provision for specific reasons. At the same time, the county council and the state bodies will be made aware of the remedies available. The Ministry, in cooperation with the counties concerned, will also contribute to a better overview of the land situation in the coastal zone, thereby better identifying the consequences of adverse dispensation practices. With regard to the specific report from the County of Westfold, which raises the question from the representative of Langeland, I would like to stress that the high number of approved exemptions is obviously alarming. However, according to data from the State, the situation is not as dramatic as the figures should indicate. This is because many municipalities also treat minor construction measures as a derogation – these are not exemptions. The real number of exemptions in this area is therefore slightly smaller, without changing the general attitude I have expressed. I would also like to point out that the Ministry has set up a sample to review the planning provisions of the law. In the mandate of the sample, the sample shall consider how to improve the procedural and rationale provisions relating to exemptions, so that derogations from spatial plans do not undermine the whole of the plan and its considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2449	I thank the Council of State for your answer. SV is generous when you're going to be, and I want to thank you for a positive answer, because here the Council of State expresses the notion that SV also has, that it should be very strict in terms of violating all-man rights. Still, I want to challenge the Council of State on a couple of points. The Council of State says that municipalities should intensify practices. How has the Council of State intended to ensure that this happens? I'd like to know that. Besides, there's already been some damage that makes it hard for people to use beach sonals for the most part. Will the Council of State be on a reef pole along the Oslofjord?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2458	As the representative Langeland himself said, SV and the government here have a clear common interest, and that is to defend all-man rights. It is also a right that stands very strong after we received a judgment in the Supreme Court that ordered a fence in Sandefjord to be demolished, despite the fence being set up before the law came into force. It says something about what the Supreme Court believes, that the right of all persons and the right to free movement should be strong. The representative is right that damage has been done to some extent in the sense that it is built. Then I would like to stress that although both buildings and any fences had to be in the beach zone, they should not prevent free movement. And if they are, there is reason to look into the matter more closely. I have also asked the County of Westfold in particular to assess whether regional authorities have been informed and whether there are particular considerations in the exemptions granted for this to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2470	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘It may appear, in the light of the Government’s ‘positive’ attitudes to predators, that many landowners will have a significantly lower income on their use of land. I am thinking in particular of hunting game, which will be greatly reduced after the herds of predators. How will the Council of State deal with this?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2479	The aims and principles pursued by the Government in the management of barrages have been clarified by Stortinget. I show you, among other things: to the Stortingen’s treatment of the 1997 report of wild game. Although most attention has been paid to the relationship with sheep and reindeer industries in the management of predatory game, other outlanding interests are not excluded. The ratio of wild game to deer is specifically mentioned in the 1997 report on wild game, which summarises background knowledge in this area. It is concluded, inter alia, that: that the main challenge for achieving good multi-stock management in the core areas of predatory animals will be to implement a precise and controlled deer management that ensures high quality productive populations. The Directorate for Nature Management, together with the Swedish authorities, has undertaken research initiatives to improve our ability to manage deer and predatory game together in the best possible way. This also requires hunters and hunters to adjust slightly their activity in certain areas. I find reason to recall that the large predators are part of the whole and the biodiversity of nature in Norway. The deer are the natural and most important prey of the large predators. It is not in accordance with either international or national objectives to optimise individual populations at the expense of other game species.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2490	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I understand is that the Council of State believes that hunters and hunters must also comply with the welfare of predators. Because district policy is going to have a high star at the government, I would say the answer is somewhat disappointing. Hunting and experience tours are too many an important source of income and have several functions. Most people plough large parts of this income back to nature in the form of, for example, game care. In addition, there are some jobs, such as: in the case of hunting surveillance, which has led to a significant reduction of illegal hunting which has in some cases resulted in damaging protection, with the suffering it causes to the animals, and a misrepresentation. Another part of the profit is being added to the upgrading of old coiers, seats and other housing options, such as abandoned residential areas, and new alternatives, such as gapahuks, with a more primitive standard. So this is also a cultural issue. Can the Council of State promise that she will take an extra look at this, so that the foreign income will be virtually unchanged?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2499	Let me first say that it does not result in the correctness that the representative of Bredvold claims, that the government unilaterally takes care of the interests of predators. We are doing our utmost to pursue a balanced policy, a policy that combines different considerations, both the possibilities of using sheep's and clean pastures, because there is a very environmentally friendly meat production, considering that we are going to have viable populations of the four major predators in Norway, to which we are committed under international agreements and which are also a national target, and not least the interests of outdoor life, including hunting. We are also concerned that, in the future, we need to ensure that there are good opportunities in the districts for different sources of income, and not least income from out-fields will be an essential part of this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2509	I will ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘According to the information in the newspaper Nordlys on 22 February 1999, it appears that different interpretations of the rules for gloat fishing have been given within the Directorate for Nature Management. What will the Council of State do to bring about legislation that is easily accessible and understandable and that cannot be interpreted in different ways?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2518	Grabbing must be carried out in accordance with the provisions on the use of catching gear and the regulation on large-game weapons and ammunition and small-game hunting. Both regulations are laid down by the Directorate for Nature Management. I have submitted the question to the Directorate for Nature Management by the representative of Korsberg. The director assumes that the question is that a year ago, at a telephone call to the directorate, a misinterpretation was given of the weapons that can be used to kill gaupe trapped in the booth. This was corrected by the fact that the directorate of a letter to the County of Troms later clarified the rules governing such killing. In addition, the Directorate informs that all counties have been provided with a description and drawings of authorised globular traps, so that there is no doubt as to how such globular booths are to be designed. Until the next fishing season, the Directorate will review regulations and regulations to assess the need for further clarifications and improvements.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2527	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. There has obviously been a lot of unclear legislation and regulations that the hunters have had to review. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State informs me that the Directorate will review the legislation, so that the hunters can hunt gloat without spending too much time hunting through an unclear code. I have a question for the Council of State: can the Council of State guarantee that the review of the law will be done in good time before next year's gauntlet hunt, so that the hunters know which law to deal with?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2536	I think the representative of Korsberg will draw my answer a little far when he says that I have admitted that we have a very unjust code. Rather, what we are facing is that, by mistake, a wrong information was given about the telephone, which was subsequently corrected in a letter. However, this does not prevent the importance of the representative of Korsberg from commenting, namely that the legislation is easily accessible and easily accessible. That is why all the statesmen have been sent a description and drawings of the permissible batten traps. As I also said in my first response, until the next fishing season – which means that the review will be completed before the fishing season – it will be a review of regulations and regulations to assess the need for further clarifications and improvements.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2541	So the question mark is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-03.ana.ud1161e2550	There is no record.
