ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e27	The called alternate of the Nordland County, Lisbeth Holand, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e35	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e40	I suggest Asmund Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e45	Asmund Kristoffersen is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Asmund Kristoffersen is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting. The representative of Marit Nybakk will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e50	I'm going to make a proposal from the major representatives of Karita Bekkelem Orheim, Ane Sofie Tömrås, Astrid Marie Nistad and myself to ask the Government to bring up a case on measures against the coercion of the Stortinget for treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e55	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e76	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik County Council Odd Einar City Council Magnhild Melting Authority Kleppa The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask themselves the main questions. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative of Thorbjørn Jagland.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e95	I have a question for the Prime Minister. Norway is part of a global economy. It is therefore natural that Norwegian enterprises own more abroad and that foreigners own more in Norway. However, it is important to maintain strong Norwegian ownership in key industries and financial services, including: to ensure that head offices and important research and competence remain in the country. Therefore, it is worrying that so much is about to be sold out bit by bit. The Workers' Party will criticize the Government for its loss and passivity here. The state has a lot of capital, and the state has important ownership that can be used to ensure that much of this is in Norwegian hands. I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether the Government has discussed a more offensive strategy, including: in the light of the latest examples of industrial establishments on sale.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e104	The government is committed to having strong national ownership. It is important both in the financial and industrial groups. In the case of financial institutions, the Government will discuss these issues in the credit notification that we intend to present by the end of this month. We have existing guidelines for concession decisions on such issues that, as you know, require significant national ownership. My view is that experience shows that significant government ownership of these financial institutions has also been necessary in order to now have a certain direction of developments in this area. The size will be invited to discuss these issues in connection with the credit notification. This means that the Government will not only be passive and receive concession requests, but will actively seek through legislation and as the owner of an offensive policy with a view to a sufficient Norwegian ownership of financial institutions to preserve such an environment in Norway. As far as industrial and industrial activities are concerned, the Government, as it is known, has provided a ownership message showing that the Government is not passive on this issue but actively trying to facilitate national ownership of important enterprises. We have not had the same faith as the Workers' Party in establishing an investment company with state resources, but we want to stimulate private investors, so that we keep an important industrial environment in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e111	I am pleased that the Government says that the state ownership of the banks has been important for what is now happening. I think the state should be able to use its ownership in such a way as to ensure a national ownership where the state is also involved in the future. I'm glad. With regard to the notification of ownership referred to by the Prime Minister, an important step could have been taken, namely to set up a State Investment Fund with private capital, which could help Norwegian companies go out and thus also secure their base at home. Many Norwegian industrial companies just say that it is necessary to grow out in order to be strong at home. In this way, you can also ensure stable ownership at home. What's sad is to see that you're not willing to use such tools to prevent much of what's happening right now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e118	I agree with the general view of the representative of Jagland that it is also important to facilitate Norwegian companies going into a globalised economy. It will also strengthen them at home. In this way we agree, but we do not agree on all the instruments. To let the state go in as an investor in a number of companies to contribute to this, I think for my part a should be detained with. So the government sees it as necessary that the state is a significant owner in some key financial market institutions, but to imagine that the state enters into a number of companies as an investor and thus has extensive ownership, I don't think it's a modern form of securing national ownership. We from the Government believe that we have provided other instruments through the ownership message. We also see that some significant Norwegian companies actually go out and invest abroad, so in my opinion it is not as one-sided a negative image that Jagland could give the impression of.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e123	There will be follow-up questions – Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e126	In the ownership and business message settings of previous years, the government party points above all to issues related to state ownership, which is currently being followed up by the Prime Minister. They have so far rather let themselves be sold out than invested in new businesses. Nycomed is already sold out. Hydro Seafoods and Dyna Industries are in danger of being sold out. Published in the newspapers suggests that this does not upset the rule, even if there is a confusing image. With a State-owned/private investment company or similar mechanism, the State could ensure that these jobs remained in Norway, at the same time. helping these companies to buy up competitors abroad. The state should not enter directly, but participate with money. The business community says there's not enough private funds, it's necessary for the state to participate. I ask the Prime Minister again: will the Government reconsider this and join in, for example. securing jobs in Dyno Industries, Hydro Seafoods?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e133	Now, as you know, this is also one of the issues raised by the Workers' Party in connection with the current budgetary discussions, and we are not going to conclude in advance on all the issues raised. We want to be involved in an ongoing debate on how to best ensure the most possible Norwegian ownership, but we have an embedded scepticism that the state should spread through a number of companies in the case of investment and thus also through ownership. In the case of such enterprises as the representative Starrfeld mentioned examples, the country also has other instruments. If, for example: is about the sale of Dyno, the acquisition law could enter into the picture, where the Ministry of Economic Affairs can also assess the plans of the owners, inter alia. as regards competence and industrial environment in Norway. In addition, other Norwegian buyers may also be thought to be involved in such business sales.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e141	There will be another follow-up question – Øystein Hedstrøm.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e144	The main industrial policy challenge facing the country is that traditional Norwegian businesses, the larger enterprises, are confused without job creation and value creation being replaced by new activities. We have in Stortinget dealt with both a business report and a ownership report the current year without the Government having made constructive proposals, which really means something, to reverse this negative trend. The ship-industrial cluster, we have Kværner and Dyno, partly shuts down business, partly merges or moves the business out of the country. This government has no prescriptions on how to solve. An alternative or supplement to this is to have an industrial policy in which foreign activities in high-tech areas move to Norway. My question to the Prime Minister is: Does the Government administer a policy for the relocation of Norwegian companies? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e153	The President will remind you that you have to keep your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e156	I believe that the representative Hedstrøm himself, even in due course, will understand the insinuation of the question. The government's announcement of ownership and the government's policy are, of course, an expression of a desire to preserve a comprehensive Norwegian business life, and we do, in fact. In addition to some major enterprises, for which the representative Hedstrøm mentioned examples, Norwegian industry consists primarily of a undergrowth of small and medium-sized enterprises, which is the overwhelming number of enterprises in Norway, and the Government pursues an active policy towards small and medium-sized enterprises. We're also doing that in relation to larger businesses. In the case of Kværner, the company has had its special problems that are not primarily due to the state – I think the representative Hedstrom is aware of this – and that what would come about reorganisations was all prepared for. In the case of Dyno, it's way too early to say what the outcome is. It may well be a Norwegian owner. As far as high technology is concerned, we agree that we should have it to Norway, although we may have some concerns about how the representative Hedstrøm has thought in this way in Fornebu.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e167	Rolf Rekvam – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e170	My question is how the state exercises its ownership. According to Dagens Næringsliv Saturday, the Norwegian Bank, which is Norway’s largest bank, is owned by over 50 pst. by the Norwegian State, decided to grant a loan to one of the shareholders, so that he can purchase the entire company. The goal is, among others: to sell it out or, where appropriate, to slaughter it. So my question is: is this a good way to exercise state ownership, and should this possibly have consequences for those who exercise state ownership in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e179	The state ownership or ownership of major Norwegian banks is not exercised in such a way that the state sits and decides to whom loans are given and how much. Of course, day-to-day business operations must be managed and managed by the bank. It would be completely impossible to deal with a state ownership if the State were to sit and decide on current loan requests, as the representative of Reikvam set out in this example.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e184	Admits Gabrielsen to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e187	We are in a situation where more and more companies are being bought up, and more are likely to be. One of the reasons for this is, of course, that the conditions for Norwegian ownership are not competitive compared to those for foreign ownership. And we know that the Labour Party's policy is suitable for more and more people to come into a situation where they can be bought up. The Prime Minister referred to the announcement of ownership, where the government strung out a course that I think might have a lot to do if you follow it up through the annual decisions. Because it is actually the case that we had followed the Workers' Party's proposal last year about NOK 2.1 billion in increased taxes on Norwegian ownership, of course the situation would have gotten even worse, by increasing taxes on ownership, by sharing model, by shipping tax, etc. What does the Prime Minister think could be the consequence of, for example, further worsening the framework conditions for Norwegian ownership by, for example, a billion or two in this year's budget?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e194	With regard to the part of the relevant proposals of the Workers' Party mentioned by the representative Gabrielsen, the government parties have also had their clear objections to them. Now we are in negotiations with the Labour Party on a possible budget line for the year 2000 and are discussing tax and tax issues in this context, and therefore I do not want to comment on them in detail now. However, the government parties and the Government have the clear general guideline that changes in the tax regime should not be of such a nature as to pose a serious threat to businesses, and thus to jobs. I do not ignore the fact that it is possible to collect any more tax revenue from people who have large capital incomes in Norway, without affecting businesses and jobs. Finally, consideration is important. Now we have a high level of employment, and we have to take care of it for the most part.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e199	The last follow-up question will be from Steinar Bastisen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e203	I have registered through the press that the government is entering into the agreement to incorporate the Multilateral Agreement on Investment, called MAI, into the WTO negotiations. Does the Prime Minister see that by incorporating this agreement into the WTO, the country is open to even more purchases from foreigners, and does the Prime Minister see that this can be a problem?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e208	After the information I have on the preparations for the Seattle WTO round, it is not relevant to include in the WTO negotiations what was being discussed in the context of the MAI Agreement, in the form it had in connection with MAI. In the case of any investment agreement, there is a much more limited arrangement now under consideration. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, in Stortinget, has stated that the Government sees clear contradictions towards involving investment in the forthcoming WTO negotiations. I understand that representatives of parties representing a majority on the Stortinget have had a different view of it. We've taken note of that. What is crucial is how this is handled in the context of the WTO, and how one here can take care of important concerns, such as: labour standards, developing countries' interests, etc. This is now being worked on in the context of the preparations for the Seattle WTO round, and the Government will, of course, withdraw the Stortinget at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e213	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e216	I also have a question for the Prime Minister, but this is something quite different, namely the financing system for Norwegian hospitals. The Prime Minister boasted in the election campaign of the good results with effort-based funding. In addition, we have, through negotiations, inter alia: with the Progress Party, obtained by the fact that this is an allocation which shall be an estimate. However, the Government has now changed unit prices and put a ceiling on the number of operations paid with input-based funding at fixed rates, and has also reduced the framework appropriations, so that hospitals are now in a worse situation, and effort-based funding is changed and discredited. Will the Prime Minister provide a review of this system and also put in place a mechanism to negotiate with hospitals about changes in the funding system, so that we avoid these sudden negative effects on Norwegian hospitals and hence patients?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e225	It is true that one has made certain adjustments to the arrangement, but – in the government’s opinion – not with the negative effects expressed by the representative Hagen. On the contrary, it has been intended to achieve a system that is more consistent with the intentions of the input-based funding system towards hospitals. But the Ministry of Health is in a rather continuous dialogue about this with the hospital owners, i.e. the county municipalities, and is of course willing to discuss the experiences and views of the county municipalities. We have no desire to make this system worse or more unpredictable for the county. On the contrary, we have positive experience with the input-based funding system and want to further develop it, but we also need to have a balance between what is paid through this scheme and what is paid in other ways. Because it is not every service within the hospital that it is appropriate to enter under this system. That is why today – as far as I remember – it is a percentage of 50 in terms of input-driven financing, and we believe that it is a reasonable point of balance.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e230	I must say I disagree with the Prime Minister. The signals and clear statements from the hospitals – I am not talking about the bureaucrats in the county office, it is the hospital directors who are responsible – indicate that there is a unison perception that adjustments or changes have now been made that are very negative compared to what was the main purpose of the input-based funding, namely that the more operations a hospital carried out, the more revenues it received. You should have the same payment for an operation, regardless of the roof and stuff. It is where these adjustments effectively put an end to increasing the activeness of necessary operations. What I'm asking is to get a system where there is a kind of negotiation and agreement with the hospitals, and that it is the basis for making proposals for the State budget for the Stortinget, so that the Storting automatically learns in the documents what the hospital directors claim the consequences of proposed changes are, so that the Stortinget gets a proper basis and not just the ministry's one-sided view.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e235	It is clear that the Government and the Ministry must deal with the county municipalities as owners of hospitals, but also of course obtain information and views directly from hospitals through hospital directors, chief doctors, etc. We are willing to discuss views and experiences on this if there are some unfortunate results, but I cannot see that the adjustments that have been made now have such dramatic consequences as the representative Hagen says. What I remember from the debate on this earlier this spring was a dialogue between the ministry and the county councils on whether there were bills written in connection with the input-based funding system that really didn't belong there. It got you into a system, and I expect that if there's any disagreement now, you'll have a dialogue that allows you to come up with a system.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e240	There will be follow-up questions – Asmund Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e243	The funding system may be an important clue to more patient treatment, but after two years of the scheme, we see results that are very worrying, among other things. rewards the system that one actually does the same thing from one year to the other. It is also apparent that hospitals are looking after ‘lighter’ patients and putting them ‘bigger’ on the waiting list. It seems to be the situation over there. The adjustments now made to the State budget do not seem to affect this. It is rather that the economy of hospitals seems to be getting worse, after the reports I have received from a number of hospitals in the country. I therefore have to ask the Prime Minister: Is he willing to go in quite quickly and look at the system errors that may lie in the system, which make the system unpredictable for hospitals – that one year after the treatment has been carried out, he gets involved in his expected income – and then that one also has to adapt the system to «bigger» patients?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e250	The examples mentioned by the representative Kristoffersen are to the extent that the input-based funding system does not capture all the needs of a hospital, and that it is therefore appropriate to have a combination of such a system, which has largely worked positively, and framework transfers. It is clear, as I also said in my reply to Carl I. Hagen, that when there are reports that show the need to discuss adjustments in the system, the Government is more than willing to do so, because we want to have a funding scheme for our hospitals that is primarily for the benefit of patients, so that as many patients as possible get the healthcare they require. Let me add that now the State budget is being dealt with in the Stortingen, and of course we also welcome the views of the Social Committee and the Stortningen on these issues, as explained in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e257	Last Follow-up Questions – John I. Alvheim.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e261	The input-based funding has so far been very effective and responded to expectations regarding reduced waiting lists in particular. The current state budget, cut in unit prices and a non-payable activity requirement, of SEK 480 million. NOK, gives the consequence that hospitals will receive SEK 480 million. for the treatment they had to carry out in the year 2000. My question is similar to that of Asmund Kristoffersen: Will the Government be willing to enter into negotiations with the county councils and hospitals at the beginning of 2000 in order to try to correct these distortions, so that patients can be treated more effectively in the year 2000?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e266	As I have already said, it is clear that the experience with the system and the adjustments to the system is the Government's intention to have a dialogue with the county council and hospitals about, so that the system can work as well as possible. The greatest possible number of patients shall receive the best possible health care, and efficiency shall increase without compromising quality. I agree with the representative Alvheim that this system has largely worked positively, efficiency has increased. There has been a need to make some adjustments, we have to look at their impact and assess them. We also welcome views on this from the Storting Social Committee and the Stortinge in the course of the state budget treatment now in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e271	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e274	My question goes to the Prime Minister. In several articles recently, he has been very deserving of the rapid pace of change in Norwegian society and globalisation, and says, among other things. in the evening post today very right that we need the will and ability to innovation to keep pace. The more surprising it is that in his articles he does not say very much about what this means in political terms, and there are particularly two areas that amaze me. One is that once again he omits to talk about the clear improvements that are needed in the Norwegian school system in order for us to have this capacity for innovation, and the other is that he makes the issue of value creation almost a matter of betting more on the SND. Is the last thing that he actually takes into account that, in budgetary terms, he has to swallow tax changes that are detrimental to businesses and jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e279	As far as budgetary negotiations are concerned, I think the Right-Leader is aware that they cannot be conducted through the Parliamentary Chair. Nor was it done the previous two years when we had negotiations with the Right. But, of course, we do not want changes in the tax system, which are a serious threat to Norwegian businesses, and which could lead to job closures. On the contrary, it is now important to take care of the high level of employment. But we're discussing possible action with the Workers' Party, so that we get better distribution effects from our tax system, and so that those who had to earn unreasonablely and pay unreasonablely little taxes, should not continue to do so. The two needs I think for my part it should be possible to combine, but one should proceed gently. As regards innovation, the Government has included in the State budget, and also by other means, proposals for action in the education sector to contribute to this. One of the areas of activity within the school budget for 2000 is a very strong increase in the allocation of education in information and communication technologies, which may be the most important in terms of innovation. Furthermore, as is well known in the State budget proposal, increased efforts have been proposed in the field of secondary education and the development of the teaching role. Finally, I must point out that the proposal for a new research budget for the year 2000 represents one of the strongest efforts in research that has taken place at all. Among other things, we do. received a significant reward from the Main Organisation of Industry. This is an increase of approx. 650 million. kr. The research fund has increased, and the budget is increasing by over 7 pst. So I don't want to accept the statement that the government doesn't take action to increase innovation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e286	What the Prime Minister now says about research, I can also say positive and pleasant things about, but that's not what I asked about. I asked for improvements in the Norwegian school system. And then there's one challenge that's more obvious than anything else, and that's that we have to do something serious about the failure that we have in the teacher recruitment. Then my question is to the Prime Minister: how is it that the Government is postponing and postponing its proposals to improve this recruitment? Otherwise, I have to say to the tax question that the point must also be clear on what you don't want. I think the Prime Minister well remembers that last year's Right expressed very clearly, also from the Storting before the negotiations, that we would not have tax increases. Now the Prime Minister is considerably more vague as to whether it will be possible to accept that we will receive tax changes that are detrimental to businesses and to jobs. And there is another question that arises after what the Prime Minister said: Does the Prime Minister really believe that it is possible to hit the business owners without affecting the companies as well?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e293	To take the last one first, it's quite a matter of what tax measures you're going to take. Some tax measures could also affect businesses. They have therefore been negative to the government. I think it's possible to find other measures that primarily have a distribution effect, and that work in relation to those that have unreasonably large capital incomes without benefiting business, and that's what we're looking for in that case. The fact that the right and the centre parties have had a different view of tax policy and taxation is nothing new of the year. That has been the case before. We believe that the private sector must also contribute to the necessary cooling of the Norwegian economy, not just the public sector. When I allowed myself to mention research, it's because it's very important in terms of innovation. With regard to the recruitment message, it is better that it be good and that it comes after a dialogue with the teacher organisations than that it comes first and foremost quickly. But it will be promoted in a relatively short time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e302	There will be follow-up questions – No pay.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e305	The Prime Minister referred to the growth of research appropriations in the budget. But if you're going to get the right idea, you have to see the relationship between university appropriations and research institutions and research posts. Then my guess is that at best it's a zero budget, i.e. a zero-growth budget. But what is even more worrying is that the draft budget does not propose a single new recruitment position for the entire Norwegian university system. I want to ask the same key questions as the representative Petersen raised: is the government at all concerned with the recruitment of people to serve the Norwegian school and the Norwegian research system?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e312	The last question should probably be a little unnecessary to ask, because I think the representative's pay is perfectly aware that the government – as much as his own party – is concerned with a better recruitment to the Norwegian school and to the teaching profession in particular. Firstly, in the Government’s draft budget, the proposed measures are intended to play a part in developing the teacher’s role: increased access to leave schemes, increased access to business support schemes to draw on useful experience from them, attempts to develop the teacher’s role, among others. where other staff are more involved in the school in order to relieve the teacher of non-pedagogical tasks so that the teacher can learn more. The recruitment message comes, and it will also come as a result of a dialogue with teacher organisations. In the case of universities, we get to take the budget debate there when the budget debate comes. Of course, with regard to the proposal for funding, it has something to do with the search for universities, which in some areas is too downward due to falling youth unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e321	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e325	I'm a little startled by the Prime Minister's waiting and watching attitude in recruiting and retaining teachers in school. It's almost as risky for Norway's future as humming with the state's wealth as you do on the owner's side. My question to the Prime Minister will then be: If KS were to make a salary settlement this year that is good for other groups to be recruited, and the government would also have to see the salaries of teachers increased, is it so that the government is prepared to follow this up in the revised national budget? The warning lights now flash strongly on many teaching rooms around, where teachers are blinking in the newspapers and looking for other positions. Is it so that the Government is bidding on it? Or will the government wait until the recruitment message comes, and maybe it'll be another year and the classrooms will be even more emptied for the people we need to have there?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e332	First of all, I would like to reject the fact that the government has a waiting and seeing attitude. Even if that statement is repeated, it's not correct for that reason. The government, like the parties at Stortinget, is committed to strengthening the recruitment of the teaching profession. That is why we are in a dialogue with teacher organisations, which is why the recruitment message is promoted, and therefore, of course, we are concerned with the forthcoming salary settlement, both in terms of teachers and other professional groups where there is a need for enhanced recruitment. There are also a number of other such groupings, including: in the health and care sector. A responsible government must also handle wage negotiations responsibly. It's up to this government to do. But it is clear that the economic consequences of the spring wage settlement will have to come back to the Stortingen to the extent that the government budget has not taken sufficient account of it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e337	The next main question is asked by Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e340	I also have a question for the Prime Minister. It is linked to the fact that any fair tax system is the characteristic of paying taxes according to their ability, i.e.: that those who have much pay more taxes than those who have little. Unfortunately, there are many examples of the failure of the Norwegian tax system. The last examples we got before the weekend, when a large number of celebrities with high incomes, some million incomes, were highlighted, and that by organizing themselves through limited liability companies they reduced the tax to 28 pst. This means that we have examples that people in liberal professions – lawyers, consultants, artists, dentists – can easily organize themselves to get 28 pst. tax, while nurses, bus drivers, teachers and others pay up to 50 pst. tax. These adjustments are due to changes in the tax system implemented in recent years, which has made this type of adjustment easier. Does the Prime Minister think this is a problem for tax and social morality?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e347	Yeah, I mean it is. Therefore, there is reason to consider adjustments to the tax system. There is a broad consensus that we should have a tax rate on capital income that is not so high that it drives the capital out of the country. That was some of the background to the tax system we introduced in 1992. So it's important that someone doesn't throw out the baby with the bath water. One shall be cautious when making changes to the tax system so that it does not have unintended effects on businesses and jobs. Therefore, the government parties do not simply jump on all the amendments proposed by the Workers' Party in terms of the tax system, but we are willing to engage in a dialogue – which we also have in these days – on whether it is possible to find a way to make the system more equitable without affecting businesses and jobs. I guess the Labour Party will also be interested in keeping a high level of employment, as we now fortunately have.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e352	I am pleased that the Prime Minister is concerned that we should maintain a high level of employment and avoid hitting Norwegian businesses, but first of all, it is a problem that one of the proposals presented by the Government is proposals for increased general tax. It hits absolutely all Norwegian businesses in the billions class. The second proposal from the Government is to increase the top tax on ordinary Norwegian employees – tens of thousands of employees with around NOK 270,000 in income will then receive 13 pst. tax increase by going from 35 to 50 pst. taxes on overtime or extra income. What the government is doing is the very opposite of what the prime minister says. Indeed, companies are being taxed more in the proposals they have made, and the tax on ordinary employees is being increased. Does the Prime Minister see that this is a problem?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e357	If the impact of our proposals had been as negative as the representative Stoltenberg now gives the impression, there would have been a problem. But as usual, it's painted with a fairly one-sided brush. To take the top tax first: in fact, the entry point of the top tax proposed by the Government is a little higher than it was when we introduced the tax system in 1992, under the Labour Party regime. It is true that a lot more people have come out of work in these years, so that there are now more people paying top taxes. But the real value of the point of entry is actually not reduced. That's about. 2 000 kroner higher than was the case with the Labour Party's proposal in 1992. With regard to the proposal we made last year to increase the capital tax from 28 to 29 p.m., it is fully possible to shield employees against such an increase in the general tax rate. It can be done by other tax measures, so that the increase occurs on capital income, but the Workers' Party has so far not been willing to discuss it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e366	There will be follow-up questions – Hill-Marta Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e369	It is always interesting to hear what the Prime Minister thinks about the principle aspects of the tax system, regardless of specific budget proposals and regardless of negotiations. When it is now revealed that there are obvious possibilities in our tax system for major adjustments, can one understand the Prime Minister's reply to Stoltenberg today so that, in his view, it is not intended that there are aspects of the system that are not desirable and that have not been intended when one has politically opened up such opportunities?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e374	I believe that not only the Government and government parties, but also the Labour Party and others, should be willing to look at their own proposals and the effects of the tax system on which there was quite a broad consensus in 1992. It's clear that when we can read that artists and others are actually making wages through a dividend from a corporation and thus dropping a much lower tax rate than the usual employees are doing, I think it's clearly an unintended effect of a system that we're willing to discuss adjustments to, but not in such a way that it can affect business, businesses or jobs and thus threaten the high level of employment. I hope we have a common interest in not happening.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e379	The next main question will be from Øystein Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e383	My question is also to the Prime Minister. In a previous succession here, it was found that the government has a rather passive relationship with what goes on in ownership. And a result of that is the merger between Telenor and Telia in these days – a merger that the Christian People's Party as late as the election campaign in 1997 was opposed. It confirms that the friar standing in the yard, and not the government's will, determines the agenda in a way. Now I see that the government claims that this is a balanced agreement. It remains to be seen how things evolve. Let me ask you a specific question. Many of the important business areas of the merged company are undecided in terms of location, both mobile and Internet, which are two of the fastest growing areas in terms of telephony and telematics. My question to the Prime Minister is: What opportunity does the Government have for the government to ensure that the positive effects of this type of head office position remain in Norway, that they do not just go abroad, and that the positive effects are therefore also felt abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e392	Firstly, it is not more correct if the representative Djupedal also repeats that the government has a passive relationship with the issue of Norwegian ownership. It is and remains incorrect, even if the representative Djupedal repeats the claim. Secondly, I think that Telenor-Telia was a very poor example of so-called inaction. Because there's one thing the government has been active for up to the last second and actually overtime, it's in the merger between Telenor and Telia. The government was in the process of taking care of Norwegian interests and ensuring that a balanced and equivalent agreement was reached. And I understand that the political environment, too, has given the government a back cover for that. My opinion is that the agreement is balanced. We get a Norwegian boss, you get the head office in Stockholm, but we get the international department in Norway. In the other areas of business, this shall be discussed on an ongoing basis by the management and board of directors of the new company on the basis of commercial principles and within the framework of specific integration principles. This, I think, is natural for the company to do, and that everything is not managed in detail by the two state owners. In my view, it is also important to have sound, strong Norwegian enterprises with head offices in Norway, because it is crucial in terms of knowledge of Norwegian conditions and of Norwegian business to which such financial institutions are to serve. It's also going to be a guiding principle and an important criterion for the Government when we put these questions before the Storing in the credit statement at the end of this month.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e399	With respect to reporting, the Prime Minister talks a long way to go. As far as I remember, this government hasn't put down the foot of a single merger so far, which the government almost put together was contrary to the time it was in opposition. It's just to take the whole line away from Hydro to bank shares and to what else you might want, and Telenor-Telia joins in the same pattern. One of the most important points of ownership in an increasingly liberalised world is ensuring that there are ring-effects to the society that has built up the company. Telenor is built in Norway by Norwegian subscribers and telephone users for many years. Now I'm not going to go into whether the merger as such is balanced, but my point is, as the Prime Minister did not want to go into more detail, how we ensure that the balance is maintained by adding important functions to Norway. Or is it that the Government has no control over the further development of the company at all? It is very important for the Norwegian research community and to ensure that the country has the positive effects of this, for example: The Internet and mobile phone are added to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e404	Now I think for the first representative, Djupedal, creates a contradiction between two things that don't necessarily have to be the opposite. Mergers in business are not necessarily contrary to national ownership. In an economy that's open like ours, we're a globalized economy, which the representative Jagland was in at the beginning of the spontaneous questioning, the business pattern couldn't be static. It's going to have to change, and we're going to have to decide on those changes. In the case of the Norwegian-Swedish telecommunications company that is now being established, the representative Djupedal knows that the Norwegian State will be one of the heavy owners of the new company, also represented in the board of directors. We have also secured the company's top manager. Consequently, it is in the nature of the case that Norway has a significant influence on the development of this company, including the location and allocation of business lines. If not, we would not have entered into this merger agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e411	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e414	My question goes to the Minister of Social Affairs. In the national budget, the Government of Bondevik announced restrictions on the contractual pension scheme. To NTB, the Minister of Social Affairs has said that she believes that access to early retirement through a contractual pension is too expensive, and that she wants changes that make it less attractive to retire early. Income policy cooperation has been one of the pillars of the positive economic development we have had in this country in recent years. My question to the State Council, Kleppa, is: What is the Government's view of tariff matters and tariff agreements?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e421	It is a dilemma in relation to a contractual pension, which is that such a scheme is today, it is not just an offer for the elderly who want to withdraw from an active life of dignity and before ordinary retirement, it is actually overstimulation in relation to withdrawing, and that is what the Government has discussed in the national budget. There are no proposed specific changes, but discussed with the background in a breakdown with the title "Flexible Retirement" from a selection set down by the Jagland government, which presented its setting earlier this year, and which it is natural for us to follow up. It is a fact that this is used for a large work force in the future. According to the Government’s view, there is also a need for the experience and competence of many older workers today. And there's a lot of reason for thinking if that's how someone feels, that today's system actually makes some older workers feel pressured out of work. They can also look through their economic future opportunities and see that it is up to them to leave, at least with partial retirement, rather than to continue in the labour market with their experience and competence.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e428	I cannot hear that the Council of State answered my question – what view the Government has of tariff conditions and agreements and income policy cooperation. I would like to remind you that the moderation line of the trade union movement has been a very important reason for the positive developments we have had in recent years, which means that we have had low unemployment, low price increases and lower interest rates. In order to achieve this, large groups of workers have resigned from high pay supplements; instead, they have been given the possibility of a previous pension. This was a whole, and it must also be a whole in the future. That is why I would like to repeat my question: Will the Bondevik Government ensure income policy cooperation, which is one of the cornerstones of our economic policy, and together with the Workers' Party ensure respect for tariff conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e435	At such times, I am happy that there is room for additional questions. There was simply a sentence at the end of Gunhild Eyering's previous post that I didn't get hold of, and it now allows me to answer her questions about how the Government views income policy cooperation. Let it be perfectly clear: It is crucial for the Government that it continues. The government's emphasis is on a good relationship with the social partners, both through regular contact and by other means. But here, there's a public distribution, and I think the Jagland government too had a goal of cutting down this selection. The distribution lies ahead, the mine government is well worth following up. We have pointed in some areas where we want to follow up, but we also want a view from the Storing on them.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e442	Ranveig Frøiland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e445	I am pleased that the Council of State is stressing their emphasis on income policy cooperation. That's the way it must be in the future. In the case of the AFP scheme, it is only economically active who can dispose of such a scheme. It has also been an income policy cooperation with the background that one should be able to get off in a worthy way with an AFP scheme. I just want the Council of State to decide that one will not play the game of income policy cooperation, but that one will respect the fact that the social partners – employers and employees alike – have created a contractual pension to be in force and that the Government will not put out of play. I think it's very important in the situation we're now in, that we don't create insecurity. And I'd like to ask if the government doesn't see a disturbance in LO's ranks. You have been involved in making this cooperation possible on the basis of the fact that you have received a fixed-term pension. I hope you don't squander it now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e455	In my view, this has created undue unrest over a system that I think is well worth looking at, given the situation in which many older workers would have been able to use their experience and competence a little longer than today. That's 40 pst. by the employees of this country outside this contractual pension scheme. There's reason to ask questions about pensions here are going to be as high for those who retire at the age of 62 as for those who retire at the age of 67. It can be, for example. is currently in place, because there is a possibility of raising pension points even if you are going to retire after a contractual pension, and there are also very favourable tax rules. So on the one hand, yes, let's stick to income policy cooperation. But on the other hand, let's be willing to discuss a system that breaks out miserably.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e460	The next main question is from John I. Alvheim and – if we get time – then Børge Brende.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e463	My question goes to the Minister of Social Affairs. The supervisory report of the county doctors at 60 public hospitals in 1998 revealed serious offences and violations of care regulations in half of the hospitals visited. By 30 pst. patients did not receive the necessary help from their homes to meet their basic human needs, such as: adequate intake of food and personal hygiene. What has the Minister of Social Affairs done specifically to the municipalities which carry out such unworthy care for the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e472	First of all, I immediately called the Health Inspectorate to a meeting to get a briefing on the content of this report and a detailed briefing on how supervision is carried out, and on what follow-up it is. When it comes to the points being made, whether they relate to the management of the case, to internal control, or to the coverage of basic needs, the municipality receives a directive from the Health Inspectorate to follow them up, and deadlines are given in relation to the reference made here. It is followed up by the Health Authority, and the Health Authority already has experience both in the fact that the municipalities that have orders are looking for a change in relation to what is pointed out, and that this seems to be exacerbating to other municipalities. In addition, I am now working on a big message entitled ‘Care 2000’, where the search light is to be placed on the quality, on the content of the care services. It will be presented to the Stortinget at the turn of the year. In addition to that, we have also seen a revision of the so-called quality regulation applicable to hospitals and the quality of services there, and we have now taken a balance between coordination of the law to ensure the same supervision and the same requirements for age institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e481	I thank the Social Minister for the answer, which in no way satisfies me. It's almost a year, and these patients, these sick elderly people, live under the same conditions they did when the supervision was carried out. At my discretion, a strong, concrete and practical response must be made to the municipalities that have such care for the elderly. I think the municipalities will understand when you react with economic instruments to them. My next question to the Minister of Social Affairs is whether the Minister of Social Affairs would like to use economic instruments in the form of daily payments or withholding transfers to press these municipalities to give priority to care for the elderly in a different way from today's case. You can't wait for plans, messages and propositions, you have to do something now!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e488	I don't have the same basis as the representative Alvheim here to claim that the elderly in these institutions live the same way they did before they were supervised. On the contrary, there is every reason to believe that in the vast majority of areas here the temptations that the supervision has seen are already out, and there has been a change. Let me also say that I am continuously busy improving the quality of the services at our age institutions. There is now in all the counties a separate quality counsellor attached to the county doctor who also gives his advice in the care of the elderly. We have to listen to a proposal to the lawhouse to get the same code in place in other care that we have today in the hospitals. When it comes to economic instruments, we've taken it into use in relation to recruiting more staff. I have not yet evaluated it in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e495	In overtime, Mr. Brende will have the floor for the main questions, but if you can save a little on the seconds, it's not the President's fault.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e498	I thank you for that. I have a question for the Social Minister. Sick leave in Norway is now the highest in the Nordic region, and it is difficult to understand that sick leave in Norway should be 50 pst. higher than in our neighbouring country. The difference applies to all groups of employees, workers and civil servants, women and men. The scheme costs approx. $30 billion a year. Norwegian working life needs the hands that are available. The Minister for Social Affairs has not made so many concrete proposals in addition to visiting the parties with talk. Does the Minister of Social Affairs really think that her last action on extended self-communication in relation to today's system of twelve days to four weeks will reduce absenteeism, and in that case how?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e507	It's right that the representative Børge Brende here claims that sick leave is high. It is worrying, both for the sake of individual workers who are struggling between work and disease, and for the sake of the individual employer, as well as for the costs of social security and for employers. When Børge Brende compares here with other Nordic countries, it is worth remembering that we have a very low unemployment rate in Norway. There is every reason to believe that there are people in the workplace who would not have the possibility of being there if it hadn't been for the sick. Mr. Brende says that the Minister of Social Affairs has so far just taken away the parties with talk. The Minister of Social Affairs has taken the initiative of an Idea Bank, which is about to be realised in these days, in order to find that there are in fact separate enterprises in this country where employers and workers have jointly reduced sick leave. Then the Minister of Social Affairs has had a strong commitment to increase the use of the active health care system, which also involves working together between employees, employers and treating doctors, and there is a system that is now in the process of delivering results, but where there is still a great potential for improvement. The last Børge Brende refers to, the proposal for an extended self-notification period, is a limited trial based on studies and experience so far, which is just playing at the same time, a close interaction between employees and employers, and which also has the benefit of actually releasing some medical lessons in connection with sick messages.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e520	First, I would like to say that if people use four weeks' own message without contacting a doctor, I do not think this is a constructive call from the social minister. In fact, I believe that if you are ill three or four days, you should contact your doctor to see what is wrong with you. The Minister for Social Affairs was also concerned that unemployment in Norway is low. That's right. However, in Norway, there are one out of five people in working age on different social security schemes. So while the Minister for Social Affairs has deprived many part-time women of the rights to health pay, to increase their percentages and to tighten up on weak groups and other than those in active employment, one now wants to make the world's best health pay scheme, as we have in Norway, with full coverage from the first day of illness, even better by introducing a four-week self-employment period. Wouldn't it have been better to do something about the hospital queues, which is a serious shut-down for more people to get into work?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e527	The representative Burnde will be given a wider opportunity to discuss the sick pay scheme when the government's decision to be hired by Matz Sandman, which looks at both access and causes of disability and sick leave, and also proposes measures, will be announced on 1 June 2000. In Børge Brende's own county, several attempts have already been made in collaboration between employers and employees who go over longer self-employment periods. As far as I know, it has been tried in Trondheim and in several North-Trøndelag municipalities. I do not mean what I have suggested, that there should be no contact at all. We've said up to four weeks, and there's going to be strict terms for this. What we're asking for in the first place is a law secret to do more work on it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e537	The time for the oral question procedure is running out, and we're going over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e542	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative of Øystein Hedstrom to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, who has left. Questions 4 and 5 from the representatives of Øystein Djupedal and Hallgeir H. Langeland respectively to the Minister for Foreign Affairs must be postponed to the next Question Time, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left. Question 9, from the representative Ane Sofie Tmärås to the Minister of Justice, will be answered by the Minister of Finance who directs him. At the request of the Council of State, the question is proposed to be moved and answered in response to question 3. Questions 16 and 17 from the representative Inge Wohnning to the Minister for Church, Education and Research will be raised by the representative Petter Løvik. Question 19, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Transport, has been withdrawn. Question 23, from the representative John I. Alvheim to the Minister for Health, has been withdrawn. Question 26, from the representative of Øystein Hedstrom to the Minister for the Environment, must be postponed to the next Question Time, as the Council of State has a disease incident.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e566	I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘We have recently experienced large farms here in Norway, where both human lives and large livestock have been lost. It focuses on the need for fire alarm systems to be installed in operational buildings. However, this will take time. Can anything be done by the authorities, in relation to the role of insurance companies and to the legislation, inter alia, concerning the supervision of electrical installations, in order to avoid tragedies?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e575	The use of electricity is vital for agriculture, energy is used for lighting, heating and operation of other equipment used for production. Electricity at the same time represents a major threat in terms of fire risk. The figures from the Directorate of Fire and Explosive Protection show that an estimated one third of the fires are due to faults on the electrical system and faults in the use of electrical equipment. The State Building Technical Office, the State Animal Health Authority, the State Agricultural Authority and the Directorate for Fire and Explosive Protection started two years ago a cooperation to identify and improve the fire safety of domestic animals in agriculture. In this context, Norway’s agricultural high school has been used as a specialist body for carrying out the necessary investigations. Those authorities, in the light of the work they have jointly carried out, are in the process of issuing guidance on the fire safety of livestock buildings in agriculture. This will be available before the end of the year. The guidance will include a description of fire as a problem in different types of livestock buildings, the legal rules applicable, common faults and deficiencies relevant to fire safety, and not least a description of measures that can prevent and limit fires. The guidance will be an important instrument for improving the fire safety of domestic animals and has been calculated both for owners of operational buildings and authorities supervising agricultural buildings and animal husbandry. In addition, for many years the largest company in agricultural insurance has been actively engaged in damage prevention measures in agriculture. In addition to information and motivational work, they are currently offering very favourable funding schemes for fire alarm systems in livestock operational buildings. This has been the main driving force for the strong increase in the installation of fire alarm systems in animal housing buildings. In the case of electrical installations, it is the owners, i.e. the farmers themselves, who are obliged to ensure that this is in a proper condition. The authorities represented by local electricity supervision will exercise supervision on the basis of a risk assessment. The supervision of the authorities shall not replace the responsibility of the owner for the ongoing maintenance of the electrical installations. It is therefore important to stress that the owners of these electrical installations in operational buildings, etc. have a separate responsibility for the maintenance and proper functioning of the installations. They can do this by e.g. to engage an installation firm to inspect the installation once per. years.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e595	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I'm a little surprised that the Council of State wouldn't put in a little bit stronger lye than what comes out in the answer. He talked about a guide, and that's well and good. However, I feel that it is important that we now establish a legislation whereby self-employed people in agriculture are required to do this. When one third of the fires are caused by the electrical system, it's quite a large number, I think. And when we know that businesses and private operators have a rather strict legislation in relation to health, the environment and safety, I think that the farmers should have been obliged to do so. But I'm recording what the Council of State refers to in the answer, and I'm pleased with this guidance and hope that this will help bring down the number of agricultural fires.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e602	Let's first agree that the problem that fire in operating buildings represents is serious and should be taken seriously by all of us. There are many tragedies every year where domestic animals are involved in this type of fire. There is also a background for thorough work over two years that has resulted in a very comprehensive report both on causes and on possible measures to limit their scope. Of course, if the measures that are now being implemented to limit this type of fire are not sufficient, then of course further measures will have to be considered, without me now and again saying what that will mean. But I think it's an important step in the right direction that so many different agencies have now settled down to find out the best measures, that there is an increase in the installation of alarms, and that things are now going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e612	I will be asked the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘The results of the revised Planning and Building Act are alarming. There are signs from several parts of the country that small businesses give up because of a disturbing form fields and rigid documentation requirements. The law makes it so difficult to maintain small businesses in the districts that he denies the practice. Is the Ministry briefed on the problems this law creates for smaller enterprises, and when can we expect that simplifications that matter will be proposed?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e621	I would first of all like to state that the new building rules have little effect on the operation of the sawmill. The regulation on requirements for construction works and products for construction works may, in appropriate cases, have an impact on manufacturers of elements for construction works. The new regulation was adopted independently but at the same time as the revision of the Planning and Building Act. For undertakings producing large quantities of construction products without an overview of where they are to be used, documentation of properties is required. Construction products may be both materials and pre-assembled elements. However, minor application will not be covered by these requirements when the materials are used locally or are not sold on the open market. As long as the case-law has an overview of the quality and use of the materials, no more evidence is necessary than that the case-law states that the materials are good enough. These requirements are not new. Moreover, after the audit, it will often be sufficient to document the quality of the materials through the continuous inspection of the building. Another way to see the question from the representative Andersen is, of course, that the problem for the owner of a case is low construction activity among the traditional customers of the case, who think they are in trouble because of the problem. new building rules. There's another side to the code. Much of the criticism of the regulations has been directed towards a comprehensive documentation need. Feedback from municipalities confirms that they receive much unnecessary documentation because applicants submit much more documentation than the legislation requires. I have therefore found it necessary to clarify in the regulations that the documentation should be limited to what is necessary in the case in question. This measure, together with other simplifications, which I expect to bring into force in the current year, will contribute to significantly reducing the number of documents, probably with a total of 30 pst. I have to remind you that there is no requirement for a form to be used in construction matters. Form is a tool to facilitate communication between the applicant and the municipality. The industry has been committed to developing forms, and the authorities have assisted in this work. New and simpler forms are made available in these days. As a follow-up to the interpellation of the representative Sverre J. Hoddevik on 13 October 1998, the Ministry has launched several projects for the evaluation of the building project reform. There are already partial results from several projects such as: are the basis for the amendments to the regulations that I now wish to implement. The interim reports provide a basis for assuming that the increased duration of proceedings resulting from the reform is a transitional problem. Adaptation in the industry to the new rules is well under way and interim evaluation does not provide any indication of a direct causal link between legislative changes and possible changes in the structure of the construction industry. However, as I have said before, I will follow developments carefully and consider whether there may be a need to follow up on further studies of the impact on the smaller enterprises. Both central building authorities and industry place great emphasis on information, training and development of aids. Among other things, the new guidance on regulations will contain examples of the evidence needed for different applications.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e636	In fact, I get a little abandoned when I see it as the Council of State does not think this is a problem. But it's a real, big problem for a part, and it's mainly for construction-related, construction-related, construction-related, construction-related companies. When they complain – and I have received many complaints – should we not take into account what they say? Shall we just politicians and bureaucrats say that no, it's not as difficult as you say, you get to be so good just keep going the way we sketched? Many people believe that the law imposes such strict requirements on this type of entity that simplifications need to be carried out within a short period of time. I would also like to say that it is the small companies – not the large companies – that have problems with the new, revised planning and building law and see it as a major obstacle to the small operators. And that particular angle I am interested in hearing the views of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e645	It is quite right that it is the smallest companies that have the greatest difficulty in adapting to the new planning and building law and regulations, precisely because it is this type of enterprise that often has the least competence in relation to the requirements and that it takes a proportionately greater share of the administrative resources to do the work required by the regulations. There's no doubt that that's right. And that's exactly the background that the ministry has taken an initiative to implement simplification. Firstly – as I said in my first answer – it is clarified that no more documentation is to be required than what is most necessary in the case in question, then that we are already in the process of implementing simplifications that will help to reduce the number of documents probably by a whole 30 pst. So it's a grip that's just being done to take care of the smallest enterprises and make it easier for both those who are going to build and those who are going to do the building work and have their projects carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e652	I thank you for your answer. But I have several examples of individuals in individual companies in the district municipalities giving up, taking up work in a larger company and moving into more central districts. An example is the case-lawyer in East Agder that is referred to in the question. He believes that it is completely impossible to operate in the districts as the Planning and Building Act is now, and he takes on a job in the city. We simply can't set the threshold to participate in the work with value creation so high that it actually excludes more people from moving on or having the opportunity to start up on their own. In my view, there are quite a number of competent people who want to work with their hands, but they experience being confronted with a huge form field imposed on them by bureaucrats and politicians, and some of them feel very powerless. The error is that there are bureaucrats who design these rules. They do not even know the industry's actors and structure well enough, thus creating legislation that is not flexible enough for the industry. [[The President clubs.]] I believe that the Council of State must look at this, and that he should feel somewhat worried about what is about to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e661	Time's up!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e664	I am still a little in doubt about the connection to the sawmill. For what is happening in that sector, there is no direct link with the regulations and the new Planning and Building Act. It is such that the background to new rules on product inspection and documentation of construction products is related to Norway’s obligations under the EEA Agreement, where we have implemented the EU Construction Products Directive. There is an obligation for each manufacturer of construction products to ensure that the characteristics of the product are documented before being placed on the market. The rules on the CE marking are such an aid in the control of the authorities, which follows the Construction Products Directive. They are implemented and have no connection with the Law on Planning and Building. They have quite different reasons, as the representative knows, namely the EEA Agreement. It is, as I said in my first answer, that construction products used locally and not offered in the open market are exempt from these documentation rules, just to make it easier for the smallest users. So we've tried to take care of them too.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e676	This question, from the representative of Øystein Hedstrom to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e679	I have a question for the Minister of Justice on behalf of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade: ‘Both energy industry and consumers want a law that ensures adequate control of current meters because the current legislation is incomplete and threatens consumer safety. The company Energy Measurement AS has found errors at 20 pst. by controlled current meters. Will the Council of State take an initiative in order to establish a regulatory control system at European level that respects consumers’ interests?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e688	There are an estimated 2.4 million. electricity meters outsourced in Norway. There has been no statutory control system for these meters so far. Most other EEA countries have control systems for such meters. As far as we are aware, no mandatory control system is planned for electricity meters within the EU system. A proposed EU directive, the measuring instrument directive, only regulates the technical requirements to be applied to different measuring instruments, including: electricity meters, if national approval or control systems are required for the instrument type concerned. In the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade there is already an assessment of whether a control system for electricity meters should be put in place, and we have had contact with and received input from interested parties on the supplier, consumer and other authorities. In the view of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, the purpose of any control system for electricity meters must be to ensure that consumers are given sufficient assurance that the electricity meters show the correct result, at the minimum cost for both the supplier and the consumer, and with minimum bureaucratic procedures. If this is best solved by law enforcement, it is too early to say anything about it. But I understand, of course, that with the necessary and correct liberalisation we have received in the new Energy Act, the reliability of the measurement is very crucial for individual consumers. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade considers it necessary to come to an early conclusion as to the need to establish a control system for electricity meters in Norway and, where appropriate, how best to organise it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e699	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I expect a quick conclusion to be a quick conclusion, as both the consumer side and the energy side are very concerned about the question and are waiting for a clarification. The Consumer Council believes that many errors could have been avoided by getting better control of the current meters. I hope that the emphasis will be placed on the work done in the ministry. Consumer authorities say that the responsibilities are unclear both in terms of measurement and billing and will have an adjustment obligation on both current meters and control equipment. Today it is up to the electricity plants to check the meter to make sure it is working properly. But there are no rules that are good. And how many, for example, have been controlled in the last five years? The individual subscriber who wants to complain about what he thinks is an excessive power bill cannot even disconnect the power meter and get it sent to an independent control body. Doesn't the Council of State think it would be beneficial if a consumer could send the complaint to an independent body that carried out the check, so that today's belly that fits the oat bag layout was released?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e710	The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade considers it beneficial for the consumer to have his complaint tried by an independent review body. The fact that the power stations themselves are responsible for all checks has led to the establishment of a review body by the industry. In 1991, the Joint Energy Organisation and the Consumer Council Ellagen subject were established. It is only complaints on household meters that are dealt with here. The decisions of the panel are purely advisory, but in most cases the parties are guided by the decision of the panel. Disputes which are not settled between the parties or for household customers through proceedings in Elklagenemda are referred to the legal system. Whether it is appropriate to continue this scheme as it works today will be considered in the context of the main assessment that I referred to in the first response to the representative Hedstrom.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e717	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am pleased that we are now focusing on this problem in the department. That's what's needed. I want to get into an assumed EU directive, which it has been working on now in approx. eight years, to coordinate different types of meters. While it appears that it may take a long time before this Directive is implemented, other countries have put in place schemes which fall within the scope of any directive, even if it has not been implemented. Will the Council of State, in connection with the work taking place in the Ministry, now be able to enter into a temporary arrangement within the framework of this Directive to be implemented, as is done in some other European countries? I hope then – I will come back to this with a quick assessment – that it can be done within a few months in the department, so that we can get a clarification on this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e724	In Norway, we first need to determine whether there is a need to introduce control systems for electricity meters. This will be done independently of the ongoing European harmonisation in this area. As my first response showed, the proposed measuring instrument directive does not provide for harmonisation as to whether Member States should put in place control systems for electricity meters and in the case of which applications. This is up to the individual nation to decide. The proposal only regulates the technical requirements to be set out in different instruments when approval and control arrangements for the instrument type in question are in place. It is difficult to say something for sure about how long it will take to set up a control system for electricity meters in Norway, but I said in the first answer that it is liberalisation in our energy market, which the Government is obviously behind, which also means that we have to look at consumer interests. I have nothing else to add now, but I repeat that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade is prepared to make a quick decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e731	Then we go to question 9.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e737	This question, from the representative Ane Sofie Tmärås to the Minister of Justice, will be answered by the Minister of Finance who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e740	I really wanted to ask the question to the Minister of Justice, but I've realized that the Minister of Finance felt more called to answer it, so I guess that's where it goes. The question is as follows: ‘We know that Norway is used as a transit country for international organised crime. One prerequisite is that the money can be money-laundered. The Labour Party proposed in 1995 that banks and financial institutions be required to investigate and report on all suspicious circumstances, but the majority of the population felt that they should only be obliged to report criminal offences that could result in a penalty higher than 6 months. Does the Council of State believe that money laundering should continue only to be punishable for less than 6 months?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e749	The question has been transferred to the Minister of Finance in consultation with the Minister of Justice. The laundering of the proceeds of a criminal offence is, in Norwegian law, punishable, as a whole, under Section 317 of the Criminal Code. This provision affects the proceeds of any criminal offence, regardless of the criminal penalties imposed on the offence. It may appear that the representative has mixed the issue of criminality in his question with the question of the obligation to investigate and report by financial institutions under the Finance Act §2-17. Under this provision, financial institutions and some other institutions are required to carry out further investigations if there is a suspicion that a transaction is linked to a criminal offence which could result in a penalty higher than six months of imprisonment. If the suspicion is not ruled out, the institution shall, on its own initiative, transmit information to Ecocrim. The Finance Committee asked in Innst. O. No 50 for the 1995-96 department carry out a wide review of the laundering regulations in connection with the follow-up of the sample to assess changes in the personal register law, the so-called Skauge Committee. The Ministry of Finance announced to the Stortinget in the revised national budget for 1999 that the Ministry will review the scope of the provisions on money laundering following the treatment by the Stortinget of the proposal on new personal data laws. This proposition, Ot. pp. No 92 for 1998-99, was promoted for Stortinget on 25 June this year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e760	I can reassure the Council of State that I haven't mixed the cards. In fact, today’s reporting system only for crimes with a penalty framework of more than six months means that it is virtually impossible for the police to detect crime when it comes to minor crimes. The problem is that these professional offenders, as they are, break up the crime so that it gets under the low penalty. Now it is no more than a year since Norway received strong criticism — yes, it used the word ‘slaughter’ — from the international organisation FATF, which works under the auspices of the OECD against money laundering, because we were too poor in this area. Since then, more international crime has been detected in Norway, both in the areas of drugs, alcohol smuggling and hallucinations. Does the Council not see that there might be reason to reconsider whether we should extend the reporting obligation, not only in terms of the criminal framework, but also in terms of who has to be obliged to say from?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e769	Money laundering is a major problem in many countries – in all countries, I think. Norway was relatively early in laying down provisions to combat money laundering. I mean, I guess when I've spent 25 years of my life fighting crime, it would be pretty weird if I wasn't going to be very busy trying to fight money laundering in the most effective way possible. When Stortinget dealt with the issue of money laundering a few years ago, it was therefore the practical aspect of the case that led me to find, for my part, that banks and other financial institutions could not be ordered to investigate minor matters – it is in case of Nazirites and such things. It is not possible to break up a crime, as the representative, Mr Tömerås, claims, because there is a penalty of more than six months, for example. for extortion, ransack, fraud, adultery, theft, losses, etc. How can you break up such a crime, so that there will be a penalty of less than six months? I don't think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e776	I do not doubt the personal involvement of the Council of State in this matter, but his answer may also suggest that he has not fully followed up on what has happened in practice in recent years, as he has participated in another part of society. The problem is that we just see that the professional offenders break up the crime by using strawmen who are responsible for money laundering, and that the crime is therefore of a less serious nature. But although Norway has long had legislation in this area, and has worked on it, last month there was an international conference in the United Kingdom where one of the world’s leading experts in this field, Professor Barry Rider, said Norway was no better than other countries in this area. So even though we've thought that Scandinavia has been much better off, it turns out that we don't. It turns out that the offenders look at Scandinavia and, in particular, Norway as a particularly attractive country to money laundering, because they would much rather use a respectable bank in Oslo than a sloppy bank in another country. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e783	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e786	Yes, this is a problem. I also started my previous answer by saying that the money laundering going on is a major challenge, both in Norway and in many other countries. When I suspected that the questioner had misunderstood and mixed together, it is because it says in the question: «Does the Council of State think that it should still be allowed to money laundering only the penalty framework is less than 6 months?» That is not allowed. It is punishable to money laundering, including from Nazism. But what's the problem here is whether we're going to use bank officials and employees in other financial institutions to go to the police's trial and try to find out if the money that's to be tried in the bank comes from e.g. Naskeri. It is in practice an impossible task, unfortunately. So we are satisfied that at least we have a rule that obliges the officials to investigate if the money is suspected of coming from such a serious act that the penalty is over six months. It was also not obvious when the matter was dealt with in Stortinget in its time, for example. a. Privacy considerations were a point too many. But at least rules against money laundering were now adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e791	We go back to question 4.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e814	These questions are put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e820	I will ask the Minister for Fisheries the following questions: ‘What will the Government do to trigger exports of qualifying products?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e827	The Norwegian wave whale catch is known to be based on a desire to operate a sustainable management of marine resources, based on scientific facts and the principle of the need for multi-stock management. The management of wave whales is governed by the 1946 International Whaling Convention. The purpose of the Convention is to protect whale populations from over-taxation and to ensure an orderly development of the whaling industry. Administrative decisions shall include, inter alia: be based on a scientific basis and take into account the whaling industry and the interests of consumers of whale products. In this context, I would also like to refer to the work of the North Atlantic Maritime Animal Commission, NAMMCO, which was established in 1992. Part of the background to the establishment of NAMMCO was that the IWC does not carry out its administrative tasks. Extensive research has been carried out, including: censuses showing that the populations of wave whales in our areas are in good condition and in no way threatened by extinction. The Scientific Committee of the IWC has estimated the population of the North-East Atlantic wave whale to be 112,000 animals. In the central part of Iceland and Jan Mayen, the wave whale population is estimated to be 72,000 animals. In relation to trade in whale products, the CITES Convention on International Trade in Endangered Animal and Plant Species is of importance. Animal and plant species covered by the Convention are listed in three different lists, depending on the import and export restrictions to which they are subject. List I covers the most endangered species of animals and plants, where imports and exports are prohibited in practice, including whales. Norway has reserved itself against the inclusion of whales on list I. We have justified this by the fact that the biological criteria are not met in terms of the two whales that are applicable to our areas. From the Norwegian side, CITES’ work has been mainly aimed at bringing down the populations of wave whales from List I. The research carried out within the IWC Scientific Committee, with the stock estimates I have referred to, clearly shows that there is no basis for keeping wave whales on list I. At the CITES meeting in 1997, Norway received broad support for its proposal to allow trade in wafer products but did not achieve the required two-thirds majority for the removal of wafers from the list of endangered species. The Norwegian authorities are currently working on a new and improved proposal for the listing of wave whales for the next CITES meeting held in Kenya in April 2000. This is done in dialogue with industry representatives. Finally, Norwegian proposals will become clear during November. It is my opinion that the whaling industry in Norway will be best served by concentrating on achieving a general international acceptance for trade in products of wave whales through CITES. It is only by such a listing that export markets will be open to our products. I would also like to point out that efforts are being made to create understanding and support for the Norwegian listing proposal in CITES in cooperation between the departments concerned and industry organisations. It is my intention to pursue a policy that takes the catch of wavy forward towards what I would call a normal fishing situation within a sustainable management regime, including authorisation for export and trade of such products internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e850	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I am aware of the problem that the Council of State listed in its answer to me, and I am not in disagreement with the need for international agreements. But what I want to criticise is that he says that one should go "step by step". It's been very late, and I found this urgent. We know that Japan and other countries are interested in buying the quack and also other products of torment, but they are not allowed to do so today. Sales to other countries will mean better prices for the catchers and less expenditure for the state, who have to pay for these stockpiles, and in my view it is not a good resource management either. It is correct for the Council of State to point out that the wave population is increasing. It is also the population of marine mammals. We know they're caught on the fish, among other things. the cod. This is not a viable development. I think we need to exert a strong pressure on the countries involved in this, so that we can get an agreement that allows us to sell our product.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e863	It is true that there are outlying markets interested in Norwegian whale products, but all the markets concerned are CITES member countries and are thus bound by CITES decisions. It is now that some of the countries have made reservations, but it is not the case that the authorities in these countries nevertheless grant licences and open themselves to the criticism that will come. We have a good cooperation with both market and whaling stations around the world, and our approach is to direct the work towards the next annual meeting of CITES to bring down the waveval from list I. It provides for the opening of international legislation on the legal trade of such products. I think that's the right way to go. If we're going to hurry up and go beyond the Convention's decisions, you can have a setback, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e873	I will ask the Minister for Agriculture the following questions: ‘What will the Council of State do to prevent illegal imports of meat into Norway, as well as to ensure effective and necessary food control at all restaurants, food shops, etc.?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e880	As regards the illegal importation of meat into Norway, the Customs Authority, which is a member of the Ministry of Finance, is responsible for monitoring compliance with the provisions in force concerning the movement into and from the customs territory. Any person who brings goods to and from the customs territory, obligations, when required, to declare the goods or to submit them to the Customs Service for inspection. In the case of goods for which customs controls are not applied for, the Customs Service may, through planned checks or routine checks, reveal tests on the smuggling of meat to Norway. In addition, the Customs Authority, through business controls in restaurants and shops, may, by examining whether customs and fee requirements have been avoided, also help to detect the smuggling of meat. Customs and Food Control will cooperate more closely to prevent illegal imports. A new regulation was adopted on 24 August this year on simplified submissions for minor cases of illegal imports. This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 December 1999. An important change to the new regulation is that simplified submissions should also be applicable to infringements related to entry via border crossings with Sweden, Finland and Russia. Today, customs officials can only issue simplified presentations to travellers entering via aerodromes and ferry terminals. Increased access to the use of simplified presentations throughout the customs territory must also be presumed to have a general preventive effect. The new regulation contains a separate provision on the illegal importation of meat products. With the potential for profit due to price differences between countries, the penalty response is now low compared to the amount avoided by the state. The new regulation means that the fines are more consistent with the actual avoidance and will therefore have a greater preventive effect. Supervision of food in cafés, restaurants, grocery stores, etc. according to the Food Act, municipal responsibility in Norway through municipal food surveillance. However, national food surveillance is working on setting standards of basic supervision for all food establishments. In 1998, there were almost 21,000 enterprises serving, catering and street kitchens. These were subject to extensive supervision. I would like to ask the State Food Authority to speed up work on setting standards for the supervision of such food businesses. For reasons of health and fairness, I find it reasonable that supervision is also carried out with a view to controlling the possible illegal importation of meat.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e897	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, with which I am very pleased. I am pleased that the Council of State is taking this problem seriously. The last time I raised this matter, a few years ago, it was black that the quantities smuggled for resale were small, and that this should be an affordable task for our control authorities. Unfortunately, the smuggling of meat has only increased, and some restaurants are now marketing themselves to advertise that they guarantee that they use Norwegian meat products in the dishes they sell. That's good, and it's good that we've got a new regulation on simplified presentations, among other things. But if the customs services are to succeed in the tasks mentioned by the Council of State in their response, it is necessary to strengthen the customs services, which have many border crossings to control. However, it will be a task for the government and the Stortinget will come back to. I hope the measures the Council of State mentioned in its reply will mean that we can have a reduction in the illegal imports of meat.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e902	I would like to stress that what we are talking about here is illegal acts, which the representative also stated. What is in many ways a paradox in our society is that there are people who find it interesting to operate beyond what is Norwegian law. This once again gives rise to a need for new regulations and new rules that can also make everyday life a little more sad for those who operate properly. What I am now sketching, also means that one must have a larger public apparatus to manage to follow up in this area, and in a situation where we are trying to create a simpler Norway, it turns out that man's own actions make it not easy to reduce control and the number of regulations when we are going to make sure that Norwegian law is followed up. But we're taking this seriously in the department. We are very concerned about the question that the representative of Skogholt has raised here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e911	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘Tuesday 27 July 1999 escaped eight prisoners from Arendal County Prison. This is one of the largest mass refugees from a Norwegian prison ever. Given that this could happen at all, there is reason to doubt whether the safety of Norwegian prisons is good enough to prevent and prevent escapes. Has the experience of this case contributed to the intensification of procedures and security measures, and will the Council of State provide information on how the Ministry has followed up this matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e920	After the escape, the ministry carried out an inspection in Arendal County Prison. The escape occurred during the aeration. The internal instructions were followed. The escape occurred as a result of outside assistance to the prisoners, by pushing a tool under the gate. An official was physically prevented from coming to the gate and thus had no opportunity to respond in time to prevent the escape. Physical improvements have now been made to ensure the institution against similar events. The Ministry carries out ongoing security inspections in the closed prisons. These inspections include: intention to prevent escapes. Statistically, the level of escape for closed prisons is very low. It clearly indicates that the level of safety and control is adequately managed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e929	I thank you for the answer, but I wasn't very satisfied with it. I still find it strange that eight prisoners can escape, and apparently very easily, through a gate that was approved by the prison inspection service just a year ago. Nevertheless, the Council of State claims that the level of security and control is satisfactory. One reason for this is that the best security practices are also needed in the circuit prisons, among other things. that custodians are a very insecure group who will often have to have zones in national prisons after they may have committed serious crimes. So the county prisons have to have strict security measures. Many ask questions about the possibility that eight prisoners can escape at all at the same time, when it is also claimed that there is no breach of either routine or purely physical security measures. So does the Council of State think that the previous inspections of this port were really good enough, and isn't there any reason to ask questions about whether there were really good enough procedures in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e934	You have to keep the two sides of my answer apart. I said that in general, the level of escape is low for closed stations, and that is why I said the routines are good enough. In this case, there was someone who took advantage of something that gave an opportunity to escape. So the representative raises another question, where are you sitting? One sits in the county jail after the length of the sentence – shorter judge. The question he raises about where it will be safe to place the custodian, e.g. if there are serious matters, some of them are what I will follow up on in the extension of this case, because in the case of some of them who sat there, perhaps one should think about this. It's a relationship that at least I'm taking with me, that you judge those who are in a shorter court and end up in a circuit prison, compared to those who are in custody for more serious reasons. It is one of the experiences I take with me, and I also know that the prison authorities are administratively concerned. So the validity of that question I understand. Finally, I have to say that it is part of the story – since it has been recorded in Stortinget – that nine out of 17 prisoners failed to escape. This suggests that there is also good trust between prisoners and employees at the Arendal prison.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e941	Another problem with escape from Norwegian prisons is that anyone planning to flee can do so with full certainty that it is not punishable. There is no risk of extra compensation or punishment for escape from Norwegian prisons. So if you're planning to escape, it's very small that scares other prisoners not to get on the run, because, as I said, you don't risk getting any new criminal-law responses or any new convictions to try to escape. It does not seem to the Minister of Justice that it may seem strange and strange, for the common man in any case, that there is no law punishing an inmate to escape or to try to escape from a prison while, for example, there is no law. Are there laws against the most banal things else in society? Escape often spreads fear in the local environment, and people wonder not only whether it is too easy to escape from Norwegian prisons, but also why there are no schemes to reduce the motivation of prisoners to escape. Does the Council of State have any idea that there is a need to consider imposing more stringent penalties for people fleeing Norwegian prisons?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e950	Being in prison is itself becoming exempt from something important here in life, namely freedom. The most important thing about prison operations is to place the most dangerous prisoners, who are responsible for the most serious conditions, in the various and proper institutions. In this case, I assume that the representative may be aiming at one of the refugees, and there are questions that I have already commented on. When it comes to prison conditions, we have already raised the question of whether it should be aggravating to the conditions of reconciliation not to be atoned for. Questions have also been raised as to whether repeaters can be assessed more rigorously in the case of probation. I'd prefer a line where the conditions in the prison are such that, to put it that way, the right prisoner is placed in the right place. We're going to take a closer look at just that kind of routine and challenges. I have to add and repeat, that when this first happened in Arendal and in a special way that is regrettable, there were nine of the prisoners who found no reason to escape even if the gate was wide open. It must indicate that there is some motivation in that it is better to sit in than to be taken and brought back.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e959	Question 9 has already been dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e965	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: «In recent times, we have experienced an ever-increasing number of rains, especially in the Oslo area. How does the Council of State feel that this development can be stopped, and what will the Council of State do in this context?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e974	A marked increase in number was recorded in 1998. For the country as a whole, the total number of rounds increased from 1255 in 1997 to 1529 in 1998. This represents an increase of 244 reviews, or 21.8 pst. The trend continues in 1999. The first half of 1999 shows an increase from 726 reviews in the first half of last year to 828 in the first half of this year. This gives an increase of 102 reviews, or 14 pst. A more detailed review of the notifications shows that there is a particular need for business, service stations and kiosks to increase. A little over half of the cranes happen in Oslo. The others are distributed across the country. The last six months of 1998 and the first half of 1999 have been a special year for value-added transport. In less than one year, six such rakes have been committed. The ranes have happened in the Drammen, Oslo, Romerike and Trondheim police districts. They seem very well planned. Auto-weapon has been used and the dividends have in all cases been significant. During the spring and summer of 1999, there has been a series of run-downs towards post offices in the central eastern region and Oslo. In comparison, there were four cases against post offices in 1997, while there were eight cases in 1998. Mid-August this year, a total of 18 units have been registered against post office. There has been a steady decline in the number of offices since 1992. This has been seen in the context of the Post’s increasingly improved security procedures. The significant increase in the number of run against this type of object represents a new and worrying development. Combating criminality is a priority area for the police. This is the responsibility of the individual police officer. Following the initiative of the Advocate General, it has been decided to give priority to the investigation of the unexplained barriers to the transport of goods. The Ministry of Justice considers it important that these cranes, which are very professionally carried out and where very large values have been removed, be clarified. The investigation shall take place through cooperation between the various police districts in which they have been committed. The Ministry of Justice has allocated additional resources and resources to this work. The General Organisation of Trade and Services and the Ministry of Justice have jointly discussed measures aimed at preventing trade and services. In Oslo, a test system was put in place in 1998 where businesses which have taken measures to prevent the use of physical security measures and staff training and plans for post-closure can be certified as ‘safe against ran’. In January of this year, the Ministry of Justice took the initiative to establish such a certification scheme on a national basis. In view of the trend in research, it was decided in March this year to reintroduce the previous contact committee for prevention. The primary task of the selection is to act as a resource group and a forum for crime prevention. The Ministry of Justice heads the sample and holds a secretary. The sample is otherwise composed of persons from different industry associations and trade unions associated with industries that are experiencedly exposed. The Ministry of Justice has also granted funds for an own research project on the subject, at the Department of the Police College's research department. The purpose of this work is to identify who is guilty and to what extent these are affected by various safeguards.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e998	I thank the Minister of Justice for the answer, which underlines the seriousness of the situation. We're getting a confirmation of many of the numbers that tell us that there's been a disturbing development, for which we're not very excited. Action against the criminals, and not least against those who commit organised crime, we should not go into this much today. Earlier this year we had a case that went on repeaters, and the measures in this regard I think we very much agree on. But I have a small question in relation to the young rants who are about to enter a criminal racetrack: What are the measures of the Council of State in this regard? Then we have the other thing that is very serious. It is clear that today there are many employees in kiosks, shops, banks, post offices, etc. living in a way that is dangerous, as the safety measures are not good enough. What can we do to further improve safety measures, and can the Labour Inspectorate possibly play a role in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1007	I had so much on my mind in the first answer that I want to say something more related to it before I answer the second. It's not long since there was a meeting on the initiative of the Riksadvokat, where I was present with the Oslo Police District and Kripos, where we discussed the issues raised in Oslo and the Eastern region. There, it was clearly just what I said, that you look at the big lines towards Securitas, but that there will also be attempts to see if there is anything else and more that can be done in relation to the mail and the bank account. This has a high priority. It is also true that some of the cracks that have been cleared concern young people. Then we get the question of how to prevent that kind of crime, and the answer is to take them quickly. The second answer is to have close cooperation with schools and child protection agencies and observe what you see there, because that's fast. This is why, among other things: in Oslo, launched a separate project in cooperation between the Oslo Police, the Oslo City Council and the Ministry of Justice, in order to enter into and prevent recriminalism and access to it. This has led to the Ministry of Justice being quite untraditional in granting posts to child protection consultants. We will also meet with professional and business organisations to discuss with them the kind of actions they can take. I think the representative pointed to very important areas, and we are all betting on them.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1014	I thank you again for the answer. Possibly due to the limited time available to respond, the Council of State did not address what I mentioned in relation to increased security measures at the exposed sites. Then I asked if the Labour Inspectorate could play a role there. We know that this will cost, and we impose measures on the employer, public and private employers that cost. Can the Labour Inspectorate play a role there? Then I'll look a little bit at our neighboring country Sweden. It's popular in several connections. While we have had a wave of ransacks in Norway, Sweden has had some opposite developments. The number of branches and banks in Sweden is today at the same level as in the mid-1970s. In 1998, they had 103 post offices/banks, and this year the number has continued to decline. One says on the Swedish side that better security measures and broken leagues are the main reason why this has now happened. Are there things in Sweden that we could bring with us? Can the Council of State imagine investigating it and doing something about it?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1023	We like to learn everything well from others to fight crime, but I think we should admit that in Norway there have also been waves. It was a decline, and then it swings up again. I think it's important that we do what the police do to combat the organized part of it, react in particular to young attackers, prevent what you can see, in cooperation with school and child protection agencies, and then engage in dialogue with business organisations. Then we are involved in protective measures and training. I agree with the representative that this is a very important area. That is the sum of the measures to be taken. I have the view that we should be able to bring this to life, but at the moment there is a regrettable development that takes a lot of time and effort to fight and break. I agree with the representative that we need to look at a range of measures to break this, and it must be the context that is crucial. I'd like to examine whether we have something to learn from others, because there's nothing to stop you from fighting negative developments. Then it also gets to be that there may be differences in crime images between two neighbouring countries, but I underlined in my answer that the representative and I have the same understanding. It needs a broad approach to mobilising many from the police to business organisations, and it also needs to look at the situation of employees.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1035	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘In several contexts, there has been strong criticism of aspects of the use of custody detention in Norway. This has mainly been related to the length of the custody period and the use of insulation. Will the Council of State contribute to a change in the precautionary practices in those areas and, where appropriate, how?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1044	Vareting may be necessary during the investigation to prevent the loss of evidence, the avoidance of criminal prosecution or to prevent the repetition of criminal offences. Both the protection of citizens' rights and the enforcement of law justify custody. Prison of Varet is a load for the person concerned and shall be as short as possible. When a person is in custody, the investigation of the case against him shall be given high priority. The second paragraph of Section 186 of the Criminal Procedure Act provides for the imposition of prohibition or control of correspondence and visits. The Court of First Instance shall carefully consider whether there is a basis for the imposition of restrictions and it is necessary that the detention centre should not be subject to more restrictions than is necessary in view of the further investigation in the case. The Ministry of Justice attaches great importance to the situation of custody prisoners and has an ongoing assessment of measures to remedy and mitigate adverse effects on the targeted persons. Particular attention has been paid to the use of restrictions under care, especially under the long care. In addition to the provisions already contained in the legislation to prevent harmful effects of detention, the Ministry of Justice has provided guidelines for the treatment of custody prisoners, in a circular of 29 December 1997. The guidelines focus in particular on possible measures to address the harmful consequences of isolation and the lack of human contact for custody prisoners subject to restrictions. The Ministry of Justice has also appointed two working parties to propose measures to reduce the length of proceedings in criminal matters. The work will cover the whole chain of criminal proceedings and will also have an impact on the time spent in custody. Short term of proceedings is one of the objectives set for criminal proceedings. New statistics providing better information on the term of custody and the use of restrictions are currently being produced in the Ministry of Justice. The statistics shall provide better opportunities to assess the follow-up to different aspects of the use of custody. But let me mention two measures that can work. One thing that is under work is to look at the deadlines for the police proceedings. The second is to look at the legal provisions we have that say that you have to collect all the criminal offences before you are put into ordinary settlement. We're just looking at whether you can be judged for what's available, and then get a new sentence later while you're in jail. This may be some of the conditions that can contribute to the less and more efficient use of custody. Finally, let me say in this answer that on the basis of the information up to now this year, the average period of care has fallen for everyone, but there are some more people in custody now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1061	I don't think there's such a difference between me and the Minister of Justice in the assessment of the use of custody. It is necessary in some cases where the law imposes conditions, where there is a risk of loss of evidence, that he will leave or there is a risk of new crime. It may well be that someone relative to, for example, repeaters should be able to use custody more than today because it is obvious that some are committing new crimes pending the case being brought before the courts. However, custody should not be a cover-up, and we should follow international standards and requirements. In particular, the criticism has been about the use of isolation, and in particular about its length. We have been judged to be the worst in the class, and there has been international criticism. Recently, the Council of Europe torture monitoring committee has been in Norway, and my question is: Will the Council of States follow the recommendations on international standards/requirements? And how could one possibly imagine that in relation to the use of insulation and in relation to the length of the custody?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1068	It is clear from the answer that we also have a parallel view of the use of insulation and the length of the watch. In terms of length, the length of proceedings in the criminal chain means quite a lot, so that getting efficiency into it has something to say for this. This has a high priority in the ministry. As far as isolation is concerned, we are talking about a ban on letter and visitation, and the Riksadvokat has also intensified the need to be very careful about the use of this. We are now reviewing all the international recommendations we have received, to make sure that we best live up to the pressure we have on us and that the international community should be able to put on us. We have also recently visited the torture commission, from which we will receive a report during approx. Six months. In this context, we are just looking at the questions that the representative Bjørnstad is now addressing. But I cannot now go into the details of that, except to mention that the search light – in addition to what I have said about the length of the watch period – is directed towards the isolation, the effect of it and how we use it in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1077	I thank the Minister of Justice for the answer. The last time the Council of Europe's torture monitoring committee was in Norway and reported, followed up in a number of areas in relation to it with the use of police arrests and in relation to the follow-up of the detention centre. I think it's right, as I said, to assume that we're going to follow international standards and demands, and there's nothing in crime development or level that suggests that we should have something greater need to use longer custody than others, or to use a letter-and-visit ban that in practice is more about bans than about control. Now the Minister of Justice said that we will receive the new report from the Torture Monitoring Committee in half a year. Is the Minister of Justice going to present to the Storting a case relating to the follow-up to international standards and requirements, and the situation regarding the use of custody when it becomes relevant to the international report?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1086	I want to find a suitable way to present these questions, because I think a debate in Stortinget on this is worth it. On the one hand, we have just the legal considerations that the representative Bjørnstad now came up with, and on the other hand, we have a solid majority of people who say we should fight crime and avoid repeaters. Then it's about doing the right point of intersection, which is effective in fighting crime, but which is not unintentionally inhuman, to say it that way. We can't do that without being open and honest to the dilemmas we face. That we can discuss it in our Parliament, I shall look for a suitable opportunity because, as the representative of Bjørnstad, I am committed to finding this balance between stopping criminals and at the same time not acting in a way that we cannot stand by.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1094	I will ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: «The future of forest lay-outs shall be taken into account in the autumn as an open settlement option in the prison system. All experience suggests that the content of the open cushion is very good. Is any closure of the forest lay-outs in line with St.meld. No 27 For the care of the criminals? [[1997-1998]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1103	It is true that the forest layouts under the Skien Circuit Prison and Arendal Circuit Prison over many years have been part of the reconciliation options. The core of the scheme has been that on request prisoners have been able to relinquish relatively short sentences in open camps while carrying out different types of forest cultivation work for local forest owners. For some groups of prisoners, obvious forest work has been seen as a good and meaningful way to execute the sentence. This is indicated, inter alia, by: through low failure rate. However, there is no research that says anything about whether such compensation is better or worse in relation to continued crime and relapse. In recent years, it has been difficult to find prisoners who have wanted such settlement options, and there has therefore been a low level of capacity utilisation and, therefore, a low level of resource efficiency. Therefore, the ski camp has been temporarily stopped for a period of time. This has led the Department to start an assessment of the future of forest publishers. A broad collection of views has been carried out from relevant bodies such as municipalities and forest owners’ bodies and from the etatate’s own bodies. There have been many views and assessments partly related to local jobs, partly to industrial reasons and partly to criminal matters. These views will form part of the decision-making basis when, if not for that long, the Ministry takes a decision on the future of forest loans. I can assure the representative Hegna that we are not taking long-term action in the field of criminal law that is in conflict with the criminal law notification. The treatment of this left the criminal-political foundation for the further development of the ethos, and we are using that document very actively.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1114	I will be grateful to the Council of State for the answer, and I notice that he underlines that he will follow up on what is stated in the message. But I want to say that right now, as far as I know, there is a nationwide political strike within the prison system. The union of prison officials carries out an hour's political strike against what they regard as a budget that does not provide a basis for following up the policies of the Stortinget report. A political strike is a serious signal. It expresses a real fear that they will not be able to carry out the work they are required to do through the notification of criminal justice. A key message in the message is that employees should create a prisoner's arena, so that they are better equipped for a life without crime when they have completed the zone. I believe that the Council of State is right and proper in this respect to cut the budget as, among other things, shall cover open resolution options?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1121	As far as the budget is concerned, it is for consideration in the Storting, and it is not correct for me to comment on it. What I have commented on in my first answer is what happens to the forest camps that are mentioned. It is for treatment, and the treatment has not been completed. For example, as regards the political strike to which Mr Hegna refers, this was also the case. such a strike in 1997. What we have said clearly in the budget is that we have an obligation to follow up the criminal service message, but that we will put the essentials of the follow-up into the budget that must come after the Criminal Welfare Act has been dealt with by the Storting. It will be sent to the hearing just over New Year’s, and we hope for rapid treatment so that we can follow up the measures in the law. I agree with the representative that those measures require follow-up and that there is an obligation to do so. We've added that to the budget for next year, and I'm not going to say more than that. Otherwise, we have just laid the groundwork for doing so by following up a regionalisation of the criminal justice system, so I feel that we are following up the message. But we have to do it in an orderly way. We first need the legislation in place, and then the necessary appropriations get in place at the right time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1134	I just want to say a little thing too, and that is that in the municipalities where the forest covers are a very positive attitude both from the municipalities and from forest associations that get a useful job done. I see it that prisoners can do something that in the communities is perceived as sensible and useful, must be positive. As far as I know, there has been a meeting in the ministry with relevant municipalities and organisations. I do not know if the Council of State could give any signals as to what has emerged in that meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1141	I do not know the details of the consultation process it has been prepared for, but I am absolutely sure that there has been such a meeting as is mentioned here. I assume that local emphasis has been placed on what is positive experience. It's normal and normal. What we're doing is when we hear it, we're seeing it in the context of the criminal welfare report, which says we're going to make sure that the open prisons are used effectively, and that we get as much back for the effort we have. Then we have to make a balance, find the intersection between what might be local nutritional considerations, and what's best for the inmates. If it is agreed in the sense that local concerns and consideration for the prisoners and those who work there end up in the same conclusion, nothing is better than that. But it's just to have a starting point to see where the intersection is, that we've done the hearing. Our starting point is that we have to make sure that the settlement conditions are secured in the long term, and then we also have to test these camps. And as I mentioned, one of them, the one in the Skiens area, has been closed for certain periods, because you haven't had enough inmates who wanted to use the camp.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1151	I have this question to the Minister of Justice: ‘Many communities, including Stord in Hordaland, have been engaged in relation to the Serbian asylum seekers from eastern Slovenia, who have now received their final date of dispatch. The Danish authorities have stopped the broadcasts of Serbs while reviewing a report from a ‘fact-finding mission’ to eastern Slovenia. The report contains a number of information on serious and alarming conditions for the Serbs. Will the Council of State stop the missions of the Serbs and also base the Danish report on the policy towards the Serbs?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1160	Initially, I note that the report is about the situation of the Serbs in eastern Slavonia in Croatia. This is otherwise an area of Norwegian authorities have very good and in-depth knowledge of, and where we keep constantly informed about the development. We receive information from a wide range of sources. We have also been travelling in the area a number of times, not later than September this year, to keep ourselves up to date on the situation. For the moment speaking, Secretary of State Matlary from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Secretary of State Hamar from the Ministry of Justice of East Slavonia. The tour will be concluded tomorrow. Following a temporary stop in return to Croatia as a result of the conflict in Kosovo, the Norwegian authorities have resumed the implementation of negative decisions for the asylum seeker group concerned. I would like to stress that all those who are now scheduled to leave the police have received a thorough and individual assessment of their application. The Ministry has also assessed a very high number of requests for conversion made during the period of return or in relation to the setting of exit deadlines. In relation to the Danish report, which we have been familiar with since it became public, I would like to make it clear that it has been very thoroughly reviewed. It does not contain any new or other information than that we ourselves are familiar with and has been built upon in assessing the overall situation of Serbs in this area. Based on the information we received from the Danish authorities, they stopped the broadcasts while waiting for the report to be finalised, as well as a decision on the impact of the report on their assessment of the cases of Serbian asylum seekers. On 14 October, the Danish Refugee Convention decided that the report did not provide a basis for the Refugee Convention to take up asylum applications on its own initiative. In this context, the Danish authorities have not found that the report contains information to suggest that the situation of Serbs in eastern Slavonia is such that return cannot occur. At the same time, however, it decided that the coercive broadcasts should continue to be suspended. This in order to enable the Serbs who claim that they are unlawfully exempted from breast-feeding by means of Croatian authority decisions to have their case re-tested if they so request.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1174	I thank you for your answer. When I visited the Serbs at the reception in the summer, I met a fear that I saw was extremely real, and not a game for the gallery. That's probably also this fear people have seen, which is why they have engaged. I heard what the Minister of Justice said, but how one turns around and turns around Denmark has therefore decided to stop the forced emissaries and go through the cases again, especially considering how amnestylova is practiced. The report shows that it is completely arbitrary who is being tried for war crimes, and that therefore there is no amnesty law that ensures the returnees against being unjustly accused and convicted for war crimes. According to the report, the Croatian authorities indicate that all Serbs of armed age who return may be the subject of persecution. So it seems that this is politically motivated, and that the goal is to expel Serbs from East Slavonia. This was not mentioned in the report of the mission to Croatia at the latest. I would therefore encourage the Council of State to take the initiative to stop the forced broadcasts and review the case again, and then in particular have amnestynova as a backstop.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1188	As I said in my first answer, at speaking time we have a delegation in the area. In the first oral report I received last night – because I knew I had questions about this today – I did not get any information that would change our assessment. I would also like to say that we do not have a report that people who have either voluntarily travelled or been forced to leave Norway have been subjected to abuse after returning to Croatia. Secondly, while the situation of the Serbs in the area is worrying in many ways, it is still a fact that there are many Serbs living in East Slavonia, that they still constitute a majority in terms of the ethnic composition of the population in this area. It is not difficult to understand the involvement in asylum matters, but it is necessary to look into the concrete assessment of the individual’s situation in terms of well-being, health and safety. Based on this, approx. 600 of the Serbs who came here originally were allowed to stay in Norway. There is therefore no doubt that such an assessment is being made. We also have an active follow-up. And as I said, we have gone through the Danish report, and it does not contain actual information that is different from what we have, and we have no information that anyone should be subjected to abuse. Of course, we also have close contact with the U.D. and follow the OSCE in terms of the effects of the so-called Croatian amnesty law.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1195	I thank you for your answer. I am a little surprised when I hear that nothing new has emerged in the Danish report, because the Norwegian authorities have always said that amnesty legislation ensures that it is safe for the Serbs to return. There must be something new, as this report comes with such strong criticism of how amnesty legislation is arbitrarily practiced. I have also read the latest report from the mission to Croatia. There is nothing on how amnesty legislation is practised, and the basis for practice gives real cause for fear. The latest U.D. report says something about the development of Vukovar and the area south of Vukovar. There's actually ethnic killing, and the Department of Justice report also says there's instability, and there's reason for fear. I would like the Minister of Justice's comment on that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1204	Because it's a very intense commitment around Serbs from East Slavonia in Norway, and because we feel that we have a special relationship with everyone who belongs to the former Yugoslavia, we follow up very closely what happens in that part of ex-Yugoslavia called East Slavonia in Croatia. In the light of the knowledge we have gained, it is consistent with what the Danish authorities have found after considering the matter, that we should not review the matter again. But they do of course what you do here in the country: when new information is provided in a case, they are evaluated. In Denmark, therefore, one believes, as far as I have understood, that information has been provided on the possibility of being prosecuted. Then there is a new case, and it is assessed. We have no such examples of Serbs either forcibly dispatched or voluntarily leaving Norway. With regard to the specific assessment of parts of the area, there is just one of the reasons why the delegation I mentioned is there and will report back to me. Of course, I'm going to question myself very carefully about what they're telling me. Travel is also arranged in such a way as to give you the broadest and best impression possible when you first study the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1218	I have this question to the Minister of Justice: ‘Some Pakistani fathers use their daughter with Norwegian citizenship through forced marriage to secure her cousins or other Pakistani visas, residences and work permits in Norway, according to TV2’s ‘State of the Kingdom’ programme. Will the Government continue to be a passive spectator of such terrible and shocking conditions, or can it be expected that the Government will put an end to this traffic and in what way?’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1227	The government has taken — and takes — issues related to forced marriage very seriously. The Ministry of Child and Family Affairs last year, in cooperation with several departments, developed an action plan on forced marriage. It has two main objectives: to prevent young people from being subjected to forced marriages, and to provide better help and support to the young people who are or have been subjected to forced marriages. It is totally unacceptable that parents force their children to marry in order for the spouse to obtain a residence permit here in the country. Where this is revealed, criminal law responses will be followed up, and such a marriage that is subsequently declared invalid by judgment will not form the basis for immigration to Norway. The problem is that when they deal with the application for a residence permit, the foreign authorities are not informed that the marriage has been established by coercion. Therefore, if the other conditions of the law are met, such authorisation will be granted. So the main problem is when a marriage is concluded by coercion. There will be a need for a set of measures to address this problem. As I said, the government has drawn up an action plan, and all aspects of the plan will now be assessed. Furthermore, if necessary, we will propose legislative changes. The Ministry assesses, inter alia: Danish law, which has a legal requirement for an interview to expose forcible sex for those who are going to Denmark. Finally, I would like to assess whether there is a requirement for immigrants who marry Norwegian citizens to take part in a course on introduction into Norwegian affairs. I think it's important in itself that the issue of coercion is addressed, and that it is generally debated in society. There has to be greater transparency about these questions. Then also more young people living in unsustainable conditions will dry out. Hopefully, fewer people will also be forced into marriage with people they do not want to marry. I also note with satisfaction that several imams and many in the Pakistani immigrant community in Norway have stated that forced marriages cannot be anchored in Islam or in any form of acceptable behaviour, and that they respond publicly and strongly to this. I think it's good. However, I would like to stress that in the further debate I will also challenge these environments in concrete terms, both in the case of religious communities and immigrant organisations, to take an active part in the fight against coerciveness, and also to participate in the design of concrete measures to combat this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1241	It's been more than two years since the Progress Party proposed to do something active in this area, and the only thing the Government now says is that it will evaluate. Then I would like to ask first: When is the assessment coming to an end and the conclusion coming to the table? The council said he'd assess changes in the law. How long will he sit and evaluate it? When will he come to the conclusion that we are going to legislate the same control authority that is in Denmark when it comes to investigating whether it is forcible or not? We proposed that in the debate on the throne, but we did not get any support from anyone else. My main question is: When does the Council of State expect this assessment – which has been going on under different governments for almost two and a half years – to come to a conclusion? Does he agree with me that that's what the imams say in the internal environments and in the mosques, that counts, and not what may be said in a public opinion to reassure the Council of State? Because in that way it has been very successful. But we know nothing about what is said in the closed environments. And that's what's crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1250	I've been a Minister of Justice for six months, and I think I'm known for acting on the basis of social insight and things that impress me. I am working on these questions that I mentioned in the answer to the representative Hagen, active with interested colleagues, the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, the Minister for Municipal Affairs, and the Minister for Human Rights, and my assessment is to be concluded this autumn. Of course it does. One of the things that's happening now is that what you've had insecurity around comes out in the open landscape. And, of course, when it comes up, you have to take advantage of the situation and not let the debate fall asleep afterwards. I personally do not know that someone is trying to calm me down, but I can assure the representative Hagen that if, in any case, I discover that someone is talking to me in one way, while they are talking internally in other ways – and there are many ways to figure it out – I am going to react actively to it, right there and then and in any context. I'm going to choose the following procedure: along with government colleagues, I'm going to invite religious communities and immigrant organisations to just ask questions about how they, on the basis of their faith and the honour that lies in the commitment in this country to have real freedom of choice, will follow it up. I see this in the context of the legislative changes that we are now considering.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1261	I thank you for the promise that the conclusion of these assessments by the Government will come before Christmas. I am still a little surprised that so much assessment is needed just to introduce the system that a social democratic government in Denmark has put in place over a year ago and that has so far produced good results. I would like to ask: will the Minister of Justice, in the same assessment of changes to the law, also consider whether there should be a requirement for dependability and adequate housing for those who are to have family reunification with a foreign spouse in Norway, so that at least an effective stop can be set for families using young people, residents, Norwegians, young girls, as an entry ticket for a family member in another country to come to Norway with a work permit, residence permit and residence permit – at least to put a stop to where young people living at home are clearly at home with their parents and who are used as an entrance ticket for another relative? This can be done effectively by requiring that before a foreign spouse is allowed to stay, one has to have custody and adequate housing itself, not living with the parents.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1273	With regard to the latest issues that the representative Hagen raised, about housing and dependability, it could probably regulate how many people come to the realm, but it won't be a particularly suitable means of forcing marriage to live. But I'm going to review all the relationships in the job I do. The Danish law, was just publicly commented on by one of the social democrats' leading speech representatives, and he stated that it was primarily meant to be an opinion signal. I have to ask myself whether it is effective enough, whether there are measures that can be more effective. It's in the context that I, among other things, If we consider whether, in the situation in which a residence permit is sought for family reunification, we should demand that when you come to Norway, you enter Norwegian conditions as a condition for being here. It is in the context that I also raise the question of how we can actively challenge all the environments that represent immigrants, to participate in this attitude struggle, in concrete terms, and how we can be fully active on the part of different states councils. I do that because I have one thing in common with the representative Hagen, although we can have many different answers: we react to what is wrong, and then we try to find practical means against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1285	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘The Supreme Court delivered a judgment on 24 September 1999 condemning a defendant for liability in the same case even if he was found to be acquitted. Will the Council of State take the initiative to amend the legislation in the light of the judgment?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1294	The size has for many years been concerned with strengthening the position of the victim or of the victim. When a defendant was found to be acquitted, it was under the Criminal Procedures Act of 1887 that the court could only judge liability if the guilt question was settled against him. This restriction was omitted when Stortinget adopted the new Criminal Procedures Act of 1981. The change was one of several changes in order to strengthen the protection of disadvantaged persons. In the judgment referred to by the representative of Hove, the Supreme Court has followed this up by stating that the court shall rule on the question of civil liability when it has been brought into criminal proceedings, whatever the outcome of the criminal proceedings otherwise. This makes it easier for injured parties to have their claim for compensation, and it is in line with the attitude the Stortinget has taken towards the victim's position in general, as I understand it. However, on the basis of the case in question, it may be asked whether the presumption of liability casts doubt on the acquittal in the criminal proceedings. In other words, I see that here stands insulted or the victim's interests against what may be the interests of an accused person who is found to be free. I have therefore decided to get an in-depth analysis of the problem. The Ministry of Justice is now committed to carrying out such an investigation and analysis by an independent expert. In the light of that analysis, I will then consider whether there is reason to propose any amendment to the legislation at the point that has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1301	I have to thank for the answer, which I see as a positive piece on the way. It is clear, as the Council of State pointed out, that there are important considerations relating to the victim and the situation of the victim. It is also important to recognise that these are difficult questions, and the various votes in the Supreme Court just show this. However, they also show that the Storting may not have been particularly aware of the exact situation when liability is assumed to have been assumed that the defendant has performed the act that the acquittal just assumes that the defendant has not carried out. In some cases, liability could require a different legal assessment, namely where liability, for example: calls for reluctance, and criminal liability calls for intentional action. I would therefore like to allow myself the following additional questions: Does the Council agree that cases where a replacement judgment requires that the court assumes that the defendant has carried out an act which the acquittal assumes is not proved to have done are in a special position? And when can one possibly expect a result of the assessment promised by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1312	I have, as I said, taken the initiative for an investigation because there are raised questions about the attitude the Stortinge has previously expressed, and what has emerged in this particular case. These are difficult questions, this is the representative and I agree. Among other things, when everyone in the trial agreed that this does not conflict with the human rights conventions, it shows that this is complex. That's why I want a broad review of it on an open basis, and I want to do it as soon as it's possible for the expert at our disposal, and then put it before the Storting. I do it because I see that the case raises many issues that affect the general perception of the law in society, and therefore call for great public interest. So I want to follow the case to get it out as quickly as it is professionally sound in our investigation work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1322	This question, from the representative Inge Wohnning to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, will be raised by the representative Petter Løvik.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1325	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for the Church, Education and Research: «According to Fädrelandsfännen, Lilletun City Council has said that the University of Agder can become a university in a few years if you are willing to develop a dining skills in a few areas. Are these views also shared by the Norwegian Network Council and the Mjøs Committee, or are the personal wishes of the Council of State expressed here?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1334	As you know, the Government has reduced a wide-ranging selection in accordance with decisions taken in the Grand Duchy to discuss and assess developments in Norwegian higher education in the future. The mill selection shall deliver the final setting of 1 April next year. At this point in time, it's not clear what the selection means about the question of multiple universities in Norway. The Norwegian network council discussed the further development of the institutional structure at a meeting on 23 September this year. In a unanimous decision, the Council states that ‘in a dynamic system of right-wing education... it is unfortunate to define an institutional structure by law’. The Council is therefore subject to changes in the law, so that the institutional structure is not laid down in the law, but that the institutions are able to choose freely the concept that they find most relevant to the practice and the professional profile. Afterwards, the matter has also been discussed in the High School Council and the University Council. A large number of members of the Council of the High Schools concluded their views on the Norwegian Network Council, while the University Council gathered to underline ‘the need to clarify the concept of the university in line with international development’ and to ask the Mjøs Committee to ‘approve a legislative amendment to this effect’. This shows that the university issue is on the agenda of all bodies discussing the future of Norwegian higher education. So far, the discussion is mostly about principle and premises, not about individual institutions, as the representative Inge Wohnning asks on his question. As the Council of State, I have always been very busy encouraging higher education institutions to focus on concentration and quality within selected disciplines, and to appreciate such a heavy commitment to pecuniary competence. This was among others. the reason for the decision to extend the right to award doctoral degrees to state higher education institutions. I refer here to the concrete allocation to the Högskulen in Stavanger, and to the further process against applications from the Högskulen in Agder and the Högskulen in Bodø. I'm open to institutions being evaluated for quality and having the same dishes when they're considered professionally yummy. I am therefore in agreement with the Norwegian network council that we need an institutional structure that provides room for dynamism and change. I have noticed that last year the Swedish government decided to grant three university degrees according to certain professional criteria. If individual universities, with the support of the region, are able to develop heavy tipping skills in several disciplines, I see this as a possible development also in our country in relatively few years. This is the background to my assessment of the developments at the Högskulen in Agder, as referred to in the specific statement in Fädrelandsvennen, to which the representative Inge Wohnning refers in his question, presented by Petter Løvik. I take a positive view that there is so much interest in these questions. It will now be right, both in the trade union and political context, to wait for the option from the Mjøs selection. The setting will provide the basis for a growth message about the headlines for Norwegian higher education in the first decade of the next century. Here I expect that the question of institutional structure, including the relationship between universities and higher education institutions, will be central.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1349	I thank the Council of State for your answer. Councils of State, etc. said to Fatherland's friend on 9 October, ‘On the day of competence, I will recognise HiA as a university’. Furthermore, he said, ‘If the university is willing to concentrate and cultivate peak skills in a few more areas, it will certainly be a university.’ What's interesting about the answer is that at this point in time, that is, today, it's not clear what the Mjøs selection means about the question of multiple universities in Norway. That's why we're asking this question: we're going to be able to find out if the Council of State, at the forefront of the Mjøs selection, has defined the university scope and put the list for this. I assume that about the same requirements for competence and width will apply to other higher education institutions that want to become a university.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1363	What I said, and I'm of course firm about, is that when it comes to this, we're going to have a process. At the same time, I have expressed what I want to see as a natural development. So when it comes to those schools that, on a professional basis, are able to get there, that in several, possibly three, areas, they want to have top skills up to a doctorate, I think it's quite unnatural that we don't go the same way that one has done in Sweden, where they actually approve on a narrower basis. The three institutions that have developed this farthest today are the High Sphere of Stavanger, the High Sphere of Agder and the High Sphere of Bodø. Of course, the criterion here must be non-discrimination. It is the professional and not the geography or the name to determine this. I therefore refer to what the bodies I referred to have already said, and look forward to the Mjøs selection's setting. What I have expressed is my view of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1372	I also thank you for this answer, but at the same time see that the Council of State's vision can have some impact. In the same interview, the Council of State also says – and there is a slightly interesting angle to this – that he believes that ‘power money must be injected into a competence fund the sooner the better, than banks and other businesses must know their visitation time. HiA needs external financial assistance, but must also develop in a targeted way.’ It seems that the Council of State here suggests that it would be possible for universities to be brought forward by the fact that the public authorities are assisted by private interests, that one region can jointly help raise a high school, so that this is not just about public funds. Would the Council of State now add more private funding to the polls in order for them to come up in terms of competence, or should there still be a state responsibility? In what direction does the Council of State see developments taking place in the higher education and university sector in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1381	Historically, a region has always been busy with infrastructure. The most important infrastructure into a new thousand years will be knowledge and competence; it will be the quality of the training provided. I can take that as an example. The highlight of Stavanger and the region where a competence fund has long been invested. There have also been several other regions. I think it's important to have a cooperative in a region. Both the public in the region, such as power plants, and others, of course, have full access to entering and postponing such a development. International sees a exactly the same trend. That's what's happening. That's why I have a little bit of a dogmatic relationship with this. I'll also go in the future to have a central government responsibility for right-wing education, both for universities and colleges, but there must be much more interaction between the public and the private.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1389	Also this question, from the representative Inge Wohnning to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, will be raised by the representative Petter Løvik.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1392	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for the Church, Education and Research: ‘The availability of fully qualified secondary school teachers is very difficult. Will the State Council take the initiative to facilitate adult education institutions, such as the National University, to launch decentralised provision of practical education in collaboration with universities/high schools?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1401	Questions about access to qualified learners in further training will be taken up and discussed in the Storing Message on the recruitment of the teacher profession, which I will shortly submit to Stortinget. Practical and pedagogical education is a provision of education at most state universities and at all universities. In 1998 and 1999, the offer of permanent or temporary study provision in practical and educational education was extended to seven governmental or scientific colleges that had not already been offered. As a result, national absorption capacity has increased. In 1999, Hausten developed additional two of the institutions practical and educational training with elements of distance learning. The provision of distance learning facilitates access to such training. Adult education institutions may involve themselves in such education through a right-hand degree, in cooperation with universities and higher education institutions. Applications for such offers will be examined by state education offices in the counties in consultation with colleges and universities. When assessing such applications, one shall include: address the needs of the region. It is natural to give priority to specific training needs which are not covered by higher education institutions and universities. As you can see, I would like to address this kind of question in the upcoming paper on the recruitment of the teacher profession. So, in recent times, we have established practical and educational education in several institutions, thus increasing the overall supply. In addition, several of the offerings made more flexible. I'm busy making access to practical education as easy as possible, and I'd like to see adult training organisations join with universities and colleges to realize plans for decentralised provision where this is natural and desirable.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1412	I thank the Council of State for your answer. I am of course completely in agreement with what was said that this belongs at home in the big message about recruitment that will soon be submitted. I'm not going to go into it, because that time has been discussed several times. What is the background to the question in this context is that we have places where there are people who are interested in getting practical education and who have a professional basis from the past, but who especially because of the distance have problems getting to places where this is possible. We've seen that especially in North Norway with long distances, this is a problem, and we know specifically that the People's University has had problems getting to the necessary cooperation. I wonder if there are concrete measures that can be taken to facilitate and improve communication and cooperation between universities and the University of People's Rights in these areas, because this is a matter that I think it is very important to move on with.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1423	What was well the conclusion in my first answer was that I would like to see such cooperation begin where it is needed, and where it is natural with such a scheme. It is quite obvious that decentralised education, both within health and elsewhere, is a very good way of recruiting for stable and sustainable recruitment. As I said, I am coming back to this, and I am therefore in favour of what the representative's intention is to pay his question, presented by the representative Løvik.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1433	: I would like to ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘The report ‘Money slaves with Norwegian diploma’ shows that foreign students who have returned to their country of origin after completing their right-hand education in Norway have not been converted into scholarships but are in possession of a debt note to the State Treasury for Education. [[Tromsø, April 1999]] The basis of the report is students from Ghana. The students went under the old U-country paragraph before the introduction of the new quota system. Will the Council of State give up the loans?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1442	: Before the 1994-95 academic year, students from developing countries could receive support from the Staten Lending Fund for Education under the so-called u-country paragraph of the regulations of the Loan Fund. Loans were granted on the same terms as to other students. All borrowers had to sign a note of credit, including the following: contained information on the repayment of the debt. It has not been given its own indications of the cancellation of loans granted under the U-country paragraph. These students are covered by the same rules as all other students. This also implies that the payment facilities for social and economic reasons are indebted to them. For example, it will. say that those who have very low income in full-time work will be entitled to an interest-free and deferred payment if they inform the Loan Fund about this. The system of cancellation of student loans for students from developing countries was introduced by the quota system from the 1994-95 academic year. To give up the loan, the student has to return to his home country and stay there permanently. For students staying in Norway, the same rules apply as for other borrowers in the Loan Fund. There is also a rule that the surrender decision may be lifted if the student again busted himself in Norway before 10 years after the debt was repaid. I see clearly that there is a problem that the loan fund does not have the right to write off the debts of students who have received support under the U-country paragraph and who have resided permanently in the home country. I would like to assess whether it is possible to get a similar debt forgiveness scheme for students with support under the u-country paragraph that we have for the allowance students. In that case, such a depreciation scheme must be attached as a leak in the budget management. I have therefore asked the Loan Fund to calculate the total debt of students from developing countries who have returned and settled permanently in their home country. When these numbers are mentioned, I will decide how to proceed with this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1453	I thank you for the answer, which I am also reasonably satisfied with. I think it is good that an initiative has now been taken to clean up these situations. This applies to a limited group of students, and it's a group that doesn't grow. Rather on the contrary, it's a group that gets smaller gradually, so we should be able to clean up this relationship. The actual situation for many of these students is that they have debt certificates, and they get debt collection requirements. There is a system of debt collection requirements for these students, and it is quite unreasonable when these employees – they are no longer students – have a wage that is so low that they have no chance of paying. I am therefore pleased that a work has been started in order to clean up this relationship. But I wish the Council of State could be quite clear that this is unreasonable as it works today, and that he can already signal clearly that we need to clean this up. We need to clear these loans in a fair and proper way, so that these employees do not have to have these collection requirements at regular intervals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1462	When I was made aware of this matter, I thought that there should be some privacy here in order to do what the representative Rikvam now wants. Turns out it wasn't. Therefore, a work needs to be done. My intention is quite clear the same as the representative of Rikhams, but I have to get an overview of the dimensions and in what way one can handle them. The goal I'm working on is that we should come to the Great Britain as soon as possible with a proposal that allows us to change this slightly meaningless system of sending demands to people who don't have the ability to meet their demands at all.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1469	I am pleased that the Council of State will come back to Stortinget with this. I hope that it can already happen in the autumn, as an additional matter to the State budget. That must be the goal. I would like the Council of State to confirm that the goal is that he will return to this in the autumn, because it must be reasonably easy to get an overview of these peoples. It's going to count pretty quickly how many there are, and then you can also figure out how many loans they have. So you can figure out how much this costs, and then you can come back again pretty quickly. This is not more difficult. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State to confirm that he is able, that he believes he is able, to come back to this during the autumn, so that we can clean it up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1476	State Council Jon Lilletun – for confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1479	I record that the representative Reikvam every time he is up in the pulpit and comments on the answer, is reasonably well pleased, but he would like to go a step further, and then the Council of State actually has to meet it and say that my intention is that we should be able to get back to this in the fall. But I also hope that the representative Reikvam has respect for the fact that this could be something more complex than what the representative Reikvam now expressed. But my intention is the same as the intention of the representative of Rikvam.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1494	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1501	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Through the media, it has become known that Tormod Hermansen will receive a salary of 7 million. SEK in the new Norwegian-Swedish telecommunications company. Does the Council of State think that there is any reasonableness in this, and what will he do to prevent the televisor from getting a salary 10 times higher than the Prime Minister?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1510	Yesterday, Tormod Hermansen's salary was set by the Board of Directors of the merged Telia-Telenor at 5 million. kr plus any bonus. The remuneration is determined on the basis that the position involves the responsibility of a large international company. I do not think it is right to comment on the board's decision in addition to this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1517	I understand that the Minister of Transport has the same perception of how a government should operate as the Prime Minister said earlier today, namely that they should live their own lives, regardless of who actually owns them. That means that if the board had determined that Hermansen's salary would not be 5 million. NOK plus bonus, which is up to $7 million. NOK 10, 15 or 20 million. kr, the Minister of Transport would have said the same thing: this is not really our table, there is a mandate for the board that makes it the board to handle it, despite the fact that this is a state company with bonds to the Norwegian state with a pay level that is miles above what they have that has the most responsible positions in Norwegian society, including the director of Statoil, the Norwegian Prime Minister, and even the Minister of Transport, who I will assume has a far greater responsibility than that of the head of a company under his department. That's why I have to be allowed to repeat my question: Is it really the style of the new central government that you're going to wash your hands when a government makes a hairdressing decision, and you don't want to intervene?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1524	Now I'm going to admit that I haven't heard the Prime Minister's answer before today, but I expect that we're in line with this as well. I'm willing to admit that the answer to Øystein Djupedal was something different designed yesterday than it is today. Today, the decision on the board is history. This does not mean that the Council of State wants to enter into the internal assessment of this international company and make wage adjustments, but the Council of State is fully aware that the level of pay also has an infectious effect in international companies in the Nordic region. That means that I take note of the signals in the representative of Djupedal to look at the total salary level – and now we have to say – in the Nordic region.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1531	I have to admit that this gives a very dark perspective. If it really is to be such that a responsible State Council does not want and cannot intervene against decisions in a company under his own department, which makes decisions that are – and most will think – quite hairy, and which involve a salary level so far above what is the usual decent salary level in Norway, what are the prospects for us? This really means that once we've given up Telenor and it's become a Nordic telecommunications company, we have no impact whatsoever on any of the decisions made on the board. That means that if the board says they're going to assign all of the new units, business areas, to Sweden or anywhere else, but not to Norway, the Minister of Transport will say that this is a responsible government that has adopted, we have no intervention, and we don't want to intervene either. It fully confirms the point, that we have now also given away an important instrument of infrastructure policy in Norway, telecommunications policy, and we have a Minister of Transport and a government who will sit and look at those kind of hair-driving decisions and then their hands and say that this is the responsibility of the board of directors, I am the responsible Council of State, but I do not care about it. We're not going to have that kind of ministry. I hope that the minister, when he comes back to his payroll chamber, thinks about the consequences this may have for his position.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1538	The councils have never washed their hands, and will not do so in the future either. He will enter into the processes inherent in a general meeting, attached to a council of states in this context, but has great respect for the tasks and assessments of the board. In this specific case, I would also like to point out that we do not go into the new company with blank sheets. We go into the company with a story, a story that lies both in the Norwegian Telenor and in the Swedish Telia, also in the pay field. But that doesn't mean – and I repeat: it doesn't mean – that we're not going to follow developments closely from the owner's side. But now we're going through a process where the state shares in Norway and Sweden are to be part-privatised, so that private actors also get into the owner's side. That development will also give response in the new board, I think, in a few years.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1548	I have a question for the Social Minister: ‘In the case of a child’s disease, each parent is entitled to 10 days of care. In many cases, for practical and economic reasons, it is impossible for one to take out its 10 days, such as fishermen and North Sea workers. In practice, this means that many children lose the right to half of these days of care. Will the Council of State consider whether, in cases referred to above, the right to transfer care days from one parent to the other may be open?’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1557	Under the current rules, a worker who is caring for children has the right to care from the employer if he or she is away from work because of the necessary supervision and care of a sick child at home or in a health institution or because the person with the daily child care is ill. This right shall be valid until the calendar year in which the child reaches the age of 12. For a chronically ill or disabled child, the right shall apply until the age of 18 years. The employee is entitled to care allowance for up to 10 social benefits days for each calendar year. If he or she cares for more than two children, care allowance will be given for up to 15 days of benefit. If the employee has a chronically ill or disabled child, he or she may be entitled to care allowance for up to 20 days. When the employee is alone for care, the number of days of benefits is increased to a double. 20, 30 or 40. The employee is considered to have sole care for a child even in cases where the other parent over a long period of time is unable to supervise the child because he or she is disabled, enrolled in a health institution, etc. When an employer has paid the employee care allowance for more than 10 social benefits days in a calendar year, the employer may require reimbursement from the social security for the number of social benefits days greater than 10. Many workers are in such a working situation that it is practically difficult and impossible for anyone to make use of the right to free from the employer’s care allowance. For each employee, it would probably be practical if the other parent could be given extended courses in such cases. In practice, this would mean that the person was given the rights as a sole dependant. But when people's protection laws only open up such a position in exceptional cases, it is based on the fact that in such an assessment there are more concerns to be taken. An extension of the circuit that is entitled to care allowance as a single care provider would, among other things, include: have had an impact on the employers of the person group concerned in terms of production losses, etc. due to increased absences. Such a scheme would also have economic consequences for the population, since the employer, as mentioned earlier, may be refunded for the number of social benefits in excess of 10. Last, but not least let me also point out that it would be practically difficult to limit the cases that would receive such extended dishes. In the context of the increase in the number of social benefits days for single carers as far back as 1978, the Ministry of Local Affairs and Employment suggested that one should look at actual conditions more than formal, and that the rule, for example, should be more formal. should include dependants with spouses at sea, dependants with widowers or travelling spouses, or fish with long absences. The Ministry of Social Affairs thought that it would be very difficult to limit the right to benefits if one were to use such an understanding. So one came to realize that in a special case, even if the caregivers were two caregivers, in the cases that I've done the right thing for the introduction. It is problematic to grant special rights to specific professional groups. I would like to take a closer look at the rules that apply today. The question will include: fishes easily. Let me draw attention to the fact that many fishermen are considered self-employed. Today, self-employed people do not have the right to care money. Therefore, an extension for fishermen also had to have consequences for other operators.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1569	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Although it wasn't very optimistic and full of many problems, there was some hint of understanding the problem. Clearly, what she outlined in terms of demarcation may be a problem. But I don't understand that there's going to be such a big problem, the fishermen are, after all, all registered in the social security register on page B, so there's no problem finding out who they are. Nor would it be difficult to find in the system for North Sea workers and people who work away, so I don't understand that it's going to be so hard to figure this out and get into a system. It's impossible to look after kids when you're up at Svalbard and you're beaming shrimp or you're working on a platform. I hope that the Council of State does not spend too many years assessing whether to get a system. I'm looking forward to this happening quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1576	I believe that the representative Bastesen has every reason to look with optimism at the answer he received today. For me, it's necessary to point to the countermeasures here in relation to an extension. But in spite of that, I want – based on today's professional life and the practical difficulties that this can be for the individual family in relation to a sick child – to take a closer look at the rules we have today. In it is also that I am impatient to look at the scheme and come up with an assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1581	I thank you again for the answer, and I feel that we have a dialogue going on. I just want the Council of State to bring this on the road in terms of what she said about the fishermen being self-employed: it is right that the fishermen should be characterised as self-employed, but we pay something called a product fee, which is equivalent to an employer's fee. In addition, each fisherman pays social security contributions in the same way as all other taxpayers, and that is why we also receive sick pay from the first day, so in social security we are treated as ordinary employees. In this way, it is not quite right when we are to be compared with the self-employed. The only thing we don't have, like other people, is normal unemployment benefits, but we're socially equal to ordinary employees. So there's no point in opposing a plan.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1588	Let me just emphasize that these are different ratios that have to be weighed out. It is both practical and economic, and it is the concern of other groups. But I got a question about whether I want to assess whether it can be opened for the right to transfer care days. I know this is something that not least the fishermen's women's organization have been busy with, and I'm going to sit down so that this assessment gets a quick treatment. It's a difficult, but important question the representative Bastesen has raised here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1598	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘A woman with a disease course from 1990 has finally received a pension through a procedure involving repeated attempts at resettlement, applications for disability pension, refusals and new resettlement measures. However, the basis for the social security payment is set for the 1998 income year. Why do some such cases take so long, and why does the calculation base decrease when the cause of the lower income is long treatment time, and that the applicant at this time has low income due to his disease?’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1607	When it comes to the specific matter, I don't have enough information to assess whether a woman in this case has got the right performance within a reasonable time. I would therefore like to give a general mention of the legislation in this area. It is a condition for entitlement to a disability pension that the ability to carry out income-giving work is permanently reduced by at least half due to illness, injury or lye. In the assessment of the level of income bias or the level of disability, the income possibilities of any work which may be carried out at the time of disability shall be compared to the income possibilities of the person concerned before the disease, injury or lye occurred. There is a requirement in the promise that the appropriate reintroduction should have been tried before the disability pension can be paid. This is necessary to assess whether or not the work environment has been permanently reduced and to try out all the possibilities for continuing the work. It is not unusual for a replay to extend for several years. After what I understand, the reintroduction in this case has not taken place, and the woman is finally granted a disability pension. Unearned pension is known as a basic and supplementary pension. An additional pension will be calculated on the basis of the actual projected pension points and future pension points credited from the year in which a person is permanently reduced by at least half. This is called the failure time. The default is determining the amount of the pension you receive. This is particularly true because a calculation of future pension points is based on this. A future point value is calculated after the highest of two options: either the average of the pension funds for the last three years before the return on income was reduced, or the average of the pension funds relating to them has been reduced for half of all the years since the year in question reached the age of 17 and even the year before the return on income was reduced. The years with the highest scores will then be added. However, if the revenue gap in the recovery measures is still permanently reduced, the default date may be set to the year before the re-testing was carried out. The condition then is that the person concerned was at least 50 pst. perform the re-entry test. Future pension points will then be calculated from the year before they were reinstated. In the present case, the default date is 1998. Only from this point on has the social security office assessed her working capacity to be down by 50 pst. or more. I notice that if a woman does not agree with this decision, she may appeal to the Social Security Court. According to the current rules, rehabilitation and refurbishment are not included in the calculation base for pensionable income. This is something the Government has requested to do. In Ot.prp. No Therefore, 48 for 1998-99, the Government proposes that rehabilitation and refurbishment funds be retiring income. The beneficiaries will thus be able to obtain better entitlement to pension benefits if the proposal receives a majority in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1633	I thank you for your answer, which was a review of the current rules. I would also like to mention to the Minister for Social Affairs that I have read what is in the word for people who are long-term ill, that is. have permanently reduced working capacity, which is not eligible for disability benefit for initial health reasons. It's the way they get a client career, and for many of them it'll mean sick reporting, treatment, rehabilitation, rehabilitation, some work and new health reports. The vicious circle is going on. Different social welfare schemes are lower than wages, so the client often becomes a social client. In addition, disease incurs costs that one has to pay seas, e.g. part of the balance and also part of the costs of other necessary medicinal products. I would like to ask the Minister of Social Affairs whether, in order to be set a time of inadequacy, it is actually necessary to go the way of justice. And does the Minister of Social Affairs think that a client with permanent illnesses, and after repeated social security visits that are gradually uncomfortable, has the strength and the money to set such a device in motion?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1642	Let me first point out that the Government wants the time we are talking about here as a starting point for dealing with this matter to be as short as possible, and in recent years, the Social Security Agency itself has focused on this in particular. The process is running low. Secondly, we want to try out new schemes so that more people have more possibilities to work in a job. That is why we propose both wage increases, municipal communication and lower disability rates and attempts to do so. But in addition, I would like to agree with the representative of Reidun Gravdahl that the passage and time usage in this matter did not seem to be reasonable. But I can't go into a matter I don't know.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1649	I thank you for the answer on this with salary subsidies, municipal communication and trials. These are good measures, but if you are ill and too sick to work, that doesn't help. Then one in any case will go back to a medical report all the time. We have to accept that someone is actually so sick that they're going to have a disability, and it's possible that someone might be tried too much before they actually get to know it. We have also heard from labour market companies that they get clients who are actually not fit to be there at all, but really should just be on disability pension. The problem for these clients is: Where are they finally going to go? They feel that they are being bothered about going to the social security office, they finally feel that they are not getting any support or help and really don't know their poor advice. So then the question is, Where should clients address themselves in such cases?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1656	In accordance with today's legislation, the social security office shall provide advice and guidance. This is, of course, a cooperation between the individual patient concerned, the doctor and the social security office. In a disability pension case, it is often appropriate to try to recover before a disability pension can be accepted. This may extend over several years, it may be relapse, and there may yet be a change in medical condition, which in turn requires waiting time, etc. Our aim is that both the social office, the social security office and the employment office should work better together on the individual, in cooperation with the individual and the doctor, and not least get more involved in active health care notifications, so that contact with the workplace in question can be maintained for a period of illness.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1671	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1677	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘According to the World Health Organisation’s requirements for the radiation of cancer patients, Norway is able to meet approximately. 50 pst. of these. We are the worst country in Western Europe in this field. Cancer treatment is currently a field of government and expansion, and according to the National Cancer Plan, an extension from today’s 22 jet engines to 36 in 2003 has been adopted. Will we then be up-to-date with the World Health Organisation with its requirements for the radiation of cancer patients?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1684	The World Health Organization, WHO, has estimated that 50 pst. all cancer patients need radiation treatment during the disease period. The United States and Sweden have also come up with similar figures. In an investigation carried out in 1993, the Health Directorate’s 2-93 investigation series: Radiation therapy in Norway, a need is considered to be around 40 pst. all cancer patients must receive radiation therapy. The underlying assessments are purely medical. The reason why the need for radiation treatment is estimated to be slightly lower than that identified by the WHO and the Swedish and US studies is related to treatment traditions. According to the Health Inspectorate’s investigation, there is a need for 36 jet engines in 2000. IN NOW 1997: 20 «Care and knowledge! Norwegian cancer plan’ is proposed to extend at least 10 jet engines to reach a reasonable level, and this needs to be supplemented by a further five to 10 machines by 2010 in order to follow up the increase in the number of new cancer cases that we know will occur. In the national cancer plan, 1999-2003, an extension from today’s 22 machines to 36 machines has been adopted during the planning period. In the light of the plans in the regions, the Ministry has assumed an average increase in capacity by three machines per year. years during the period. During the period following the treatment of the cancer plan by the Storting in spring 1998, the indications for radiation treatment have increased. The development of mammography screening and thoracic surgical cancer treatment are examples of this. The plans from the health regions have also subsequently shown an overall need for more machinery than the agreed framework of 36 machines. The aim is to fully finance a third jet engine and a third bunker at Ullevål Hospital by the end of 2003 so that Ullevål Hospital has six jet engines at the end of the cancer plan. This involves a machine in addition to the 36 in the cancer plan. This is explained in more detail in the St.prp. No 1 for 1999-2000. In addition, the Ministry will keep under review the development of needs in the light of what I have explained here, and report it to the Stortinget in the annual budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1697	I thank you for the answer, and I am convinced that the Council of State Høybråten and I have the same interest in getting this done. What scares me a little, however, is the situation at Haukeland Hospital, where state health surveillance twice during the spring – it was probably in March and in the summer – had charged the lack of radiation capacity there. They said right away that people are dying in the queue waiting for these jet engines to come into service. Does the Minister of Health have any special plan for Haukeland Hospital? Is Haukeland a special case, or is this a case that reflects the situation elsewhere in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1704	It lies in the escalation plan that Stortinget has adopted, and it is also the basis of my own and the representative Johnsen's strong commitment to this matter, a clear recognition that the capacity today is below what we can be aware of. That is why people who have had a fatal cancer diagnosis actually have to wait before they can start a lifesaving treatment. In such a situation, there should not have been any real waiting time at all. The State Health Authority, through the county doctors, has this issue under supervision, and has dealt with the impositions and warnings of impositions in a few specific cases that I know of. Haukeland Hospital, as the representative Johnsen mentioned, is one of those cases. I would say that it is alarming that the situation is this way, but it is reassuring that we have supervisory authorities that are actually monitoring this, and that are imposing when they see that the situation warrants it, as in the case of Haukeland. There is no general situation as described here, but this has also occurred in other regional hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1718	I thank you again for the answer, and I think what the minister said was reassuring. However, I have a question that goes directly into the situation as it is now. For a long time, at least in Bergen and possibly elsewhere in the country, radiation has been too low for cancer patients. When you are in arrears, and even though you have now put this on the agenda to get ahead of it, and although there is agreement in the Stortinget that we should get this sorted out, at least I believe that there may have to be something more to do. Does the Minister see any possibility of providing further plans in the national health plan, when we know how cancer patients perceive the situation today?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1725	As it will probably be known to the representative Johnsen, there is a relatively long time between the initial plans for the deployment of a radiation processing unit and its deployment. A planning and implementation period of at least two years is expected. This means that the extension of the machinery already planned is not straightforward. On the other hand, the Government will review the entire needs situation and it is announced in St.prp. No 1st@item: We'll come back next year's government budget with such an assessment of needs, and then we'll have to decide what consequences have to be drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1733	‘The use of natural gas could result in the construction of gas ferries and other means of transport, thereby giving important tasks to the shipbuilding and supply industries. What is the stance of the Council of State on the use of national and environmentally friendly natural gas, which is particularly reflected in the Nature Gas Road project?’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1740	The use of natural gas in Norway is a subject discussed by the Stortinget on several occasions. In 1996, a gas spill was addressed, it is still on the table and provides an important basis for the use of gas in Norway. The most relevant use of gas for industrial and energy purposes is to be found in relation to the vicinity of the three coastal petroleum landing points. The development of infrastructure to expand the use of gas requires flexible solutions in view of the time required to build up the gas market. It is also important that the use of gas takes place in the most environmentally friendly manner possible. Both in transport and as an alternative to the combustion of oil, the use of natural gas is a very good alternative. Transport, distribution and use of natural gas should be carried out on a commercial basis. The responsibility for starting up infrastructure should therefore lie with industry, and it is also the business community that has to bear the risk of doing so. However, the authorities may provide financial support to promote investment in the gas projects themselves. However, it is important that the project proposals applying for aid are concrete, feasible and follow it up with criteria underlying the existing aid schemes. Municipalities can also facilitate the use of gas through municipal planning and in their own activities. The use of natural gas for stationary purposes has clear interfaces with other sectors, primarily the transport sector. The natural gas road project is an example of this. The project is now being assessed in several departments and in this case coordinated by the Ministry of Transport. Because the matter is being dealt with, it wouldn't be right for me to give some concrete assessments of this particular project.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1751	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good answer. I am pleased with the results of St.meld. No 44 for 1994-95, which I, as a representative, took the initiative. Gas is one of our most important national resources. It is therefore important that the State, with the oil and energy minister who is driving, take proper initiatives and provide the necessary support for environmentally friendly and economically viable uses. In many ways Norway is still in a start-up phase for the exploitation of gas resources. In my opinion, this calls for an active, initiating and coordinating role from the Minister of Oil and Energy. Would the Council have a positive and active hold for the use of natural gas? Does the Council of State think that the integration and use of natural gas in Norway is too late, or is it satisfied with the pace?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1762	As I said, in general, natural gas is a good alternative to transport, even where it comes as an alternative to oil. However, I believe that putting natural gas into use in Norway is going to take time, not least because one has a market that needs to be built from the ground up. We have no history of using natural gas either in households or in business, and we must therefore spend time building up the market. There may be different perceptions of what support is needed by the authorities. I agree that one should be able to support projects, but that should primarily be investment aid for the different projects. Businesses must also provide support by sea, as is the case with any other applicant in relation to State aid schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1771	I thank the Council of State for a positive response especially when it relates to the willingness to look at investment aid for part of the infrastructure. Many of these measures depend on treatment in other departments and directorates, for example: Ministry of Transport, Ministry of Administration, Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Environment. Will the State Council ensure that the project leading to the use of natural gas will be given priority when environmental considerations and economic considerations provide a basis for this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1778	The project in question, as I said in my reply, is a project with border surfaces across to the transport sector, and it is today the Ministry of Transport that coordinates the enquiry that has come. There are, as the representative points out, different support schemes which can be applied for. One of them is the so-called Environment Fund, and we have the support schemes established under the Ministry of Oil and Energy in the NVE. However, for these aid schemes, there are very specific criteria, including for gas projects: one must have a good quality of the application and contribute to self-financing, in addition to the State investment aid that can be applied for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1795	This issue has been postponed to the next Question Time, as the Council of State has a disability. That leaves the question mark.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-20.ana.ud802e1806	There is no record.
