ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e65	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 20 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches by the main speakers for each party group and after contributions by members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e76	In this proposition, the Government proposes that limited access be given to surveillance police archives and records. The legislative proposal states that all Norwegian citizens or persons residing in Norway are entitled to have access to information on the person registered in the police records and records of the surveillance police. For information registered after the entry into force of the new supervision instructions, 25 November 1977, the right of access shall apply only where the collection, registration or use of the information is not authorised by the applicable law, regulation or instruction, or if the information has been obtained by telephone checks decided by the court, and it may appear, after an assessment of the documents now available, doubtful whether the conditions under which the telephone checks were carried out were fulfilled. In the light of the information provided, an applicant will be able to follow up on an application for a fee of up to NOK 100000 if serious damage has been suffered as a result of telephone checks or unlawfully obtained information. In order to obtain compensation, it is required that it is more likely than unlikely that the activities of the surveillance police have caused serious adverse effects on him. The request for access shall be sent to a separate processing body which shall carry out searches in police files and records in the light of the information provided in the application. The applicant does not have the right to have all the information available. An exception shall be made for information which may damage the relationship with foreign powers or where security or privacy considerations so warrant. In addition, transparency shall be refused where the information would prejudice the relationship with cooperative services or provide a knowledge of the legal methods of the surveillance police in a way that could prevent the performance of the duties of the surveillance police. A complaint subject will be established. When the Stortinget examined the investigation by the so-called Lund Commission, the majority of the Stortingen Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, members of the Workers' Party, SV, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party, asked the Government to propose a transparency law. The members of the Right and Advance Party voted against. The transparency law now proposed is supported by the same parties who asked for such a law, while the Right and Advance Party are still opposed. I assume that the representatives of the majority will defend their position. I would therefore like to explain the resistance of the Progress Party to the law. The starting point for any monitoring decision should be that Norway needs an up-to-date and effective monitoring policy. We live in a world where modern means of communication make it easy to cross borders. Terrorist acts are planned in countries such as Iran, Iraq, Libya and Afghanistan and are being carried out in Kenya and Tanzania against US targets. Muslim fundamentalists know no borders. They might as well blow up an American or Israeli-owned building in Oslo as anywhere else in the world. A fatwa issued by a religious leader in Iran may lead to an attack on a Norwegian publisher, in the same way as against a Japanese or Italian publisher. The police's work is not only to combat espionage against military targets but also to prevent and prevent terrorist acts on Norwegian soil. It is often the case that secret services get criticism when they make mistakes, but they never get credit for success – success is secret. However, there is no reason to believe anything but that solid work from Norwegian surveillance police has saved human lives. Responsible Norwegian politicians should see it as a primary task to support 100 pst. in this context, by providing the police with full moral support, sufficient resources and praise for the work carried out. Unfortunately, in recent years the opposite has been true. The contentious conclusions of the Lund Commission led to strong criticism of the police’s past activities, and had a demoralising and disruptive effect on the service’s work. Several competent and experienced officials chose to quit. After the debate on the Lund Commission's report, there should have been a final line. Instead of looking back, we should now look forward and give the police calmness to make the necessary adjustment needed to streamline and adapt the service to a new era of new and serious challenges. The monitoring police should now have the opportunity to concentrate on 100 pst. on the fight against international terrorism, a terrorism that the Nygaard case points to also has biases to Norway. Not only should the surveillance police now calm down. The service should also be adequately allocated to financial and human resources. The new Transparency Act will have counter-effects. In practice, it will lead to a continuous debate and criticism of the past of the surveillance police for three new years. The Ministry expects 10,000 applicants. Since no justification is required for the applications, there may likewise be 50 000 or 100 000. Each application could provide a basis for debate, whether the exemptions have made it possible for the applicant to have not received all the information he considers to be required or whether there is a basis in each case to claim that the surveillance police have acted without the necessary warrants. It goes without saying that such a continuous negative debate over a long period of time would demoralise and draw attention away from the work of the surveillance police to carry out. Secondly, it is clear that it will require resources in the form of officials, which, instead of using their time to identify international terrorists and to monitor dangerous environments, will use their time to assist the processing body in rotting in old archives and giving opinions on what information can be provided and which information should remain secret. The Ministry expects four annual works to be included only in the opinion of the body and four annual works relating to the organisation. We must expect that there will be experienced officials who will have to do such important work as to ensure that information that could harm the service and its cooperating services is not public. In this case, eight new posts which we must assume will be filled by the surveillance police will not be able to remedy the disadvantages of using the most experienced officials for work that could have been avoided. Moreover, we cannot be certain that these new posts will be sufficient. We do not know how many people want to use this right to apply for transparency. What we know is that Switzerland – a country of 6.5 million. citizens — received 350 000 applications when access to registers and files was made available to the Swiss surveillance police. Of these applicants, 160 followed up with applications for reimbursement of the fee, of which only a few received positive treatment. The scheme cost 550 million. kr. The Ministry of Justice calculates comparatively that the Norwegian scheme will cost 40 million. kr. There could be a lot more. I see no need for a law of transparency that is primarily intended to satisfy the general curiosity of people, as long as such a law will obviously weaken the surveillance police and will therefore be detrimental to the security of the country and its people. The general system of State aid should be satisfactory in order to ensure that persons who have been seriously injured by the work of the surveillance police can be compensated. In its consultation note, the Monitoring Centre writes: ‘...the fact that POT’s necessary and forward-looking activities become at least harmful indicates that the transparency mechanism is not made more extensive than is necessary in order to achieve the objective set out by the Stortinget, namely to bring an action against those who may have been victims of an injustice. ‘... This cautious recommendation from a courteous monitoring centre has been ignored by the Government when it proposes a scheme without any requirement for justification for the applications. Some of the strangest thing about this law is the provision that registers should be open even after November 1977 in cases where telephone checks have been decided by the court and where, after an assessment of the documents now available, it may seem doubtful whether the conditions for making telephone checks were met. Regardless of the language used to justify this provision, it must be clear that it in practice involves a review of court decisions and is therefore contrary to the constitutional boundaries between the courts, the administration and the magnificence. The Ministry also considers that a telephone interception carried out within the time limits for which the court has authorised it, but where the requirement of suspicion is no longer present, must be regarded as illegal at the time when the police should have terminated the investigation. The question then immediately arises: Who in the world can afterwards have a reasoned opinion as to when the police should have understood that the suspicion was no longer present? Provided that this strange law is passed, it is absolutely necessary to stress that the relationship with cooperative services is crucial to the ability of the police to carry out their work in the years to come. Information from cooperative services must therefore be exempt from transparency without exception. There is a disagreement between the Workers' Party and the government parties in a single point. The Working Party believes that an applicant who discovers incorrect or unlawfully collected information about himself must have the opportunity to have this information maculated, while the Government Parties will transmit this information to the National Archives. For privacy reasons, the Progress Party shares the views expressed by the Workers' Party in the setting. Finally, let me repeat what is at stake in this debate: should we have three more years of anxiety and debate on the past of the surveillance police? Should we use resources to dig in the past? Or are we going to let the police take care of their work and use resources to strengthen the surveillance police's ability to clear up the Nygaard case, prevent terrorist acts where life can be lost, and safeguard the country's interests? Responsible politicians should give priority to the last objective.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e121	I would like to present here the views of the Labour Party and, in particular, of the majority on the temporary law on limited transparency in the archives and records of the monitoring police. The current review of the Transparency Act in Stortinget represents the preliminary final stone for the follow-up to the Stortingen's treatment of the Lund Commission's report. In the past, the Lund Commission and the Storting have argued that there has been illegal monitoring, uninstructed registration and uninstructed use of information to Norwegian citizens. The majority do not want to re-examine the conclusions of the Lund Commission and the views expressed by the Stortinget, and the comments made by the Control and Constitutional Committee during the discussion. Rather, the majority see today’s legislative proposals as a natural follow-up to the leading Stortinget, which led to a limited level of transparency. We are pleased that the Government has basically laid these leads to the ground. It is primarily a law to remedy possible injustices to some who have been caused by unlawful surveillance and uninstructed registration and use of information relating to them. In general, the legislative proposal shall aim to provide the widest possible transparency also in respect of other documents and personal data. For both purposes, however, it will be a prerequisite that it will not damage specific considerations that I am going to come back to. Individuals may apply for transparency without having to provide evidence of any need or likely to cause any adverse effects. We stress here the opinions of the Control and Constitutional Committee of the review of the Lund Commission's report that transparency is necessary for an individual's assessment of whether there is a basis for applying for upliftment for any regulatory burden. The Transparency Act shall take more account of these considerations. Legal and data protection considerations must be safeguarded by the individual’s right to know what is registered about him. At the same time, the legal certainty and privacy of others shall be ensured by the protection of such information for transparency. The majority agree with the other exceptions to the right of access which concern the interests of a foreign country and Norwegian security interests, and that there should be no transparency that would prejudice the implementation of the surveillance police tasks, for example: knowledge of methods and the relationship with cooperative services. This is also in line with the previous leaders of the Storting. Here, however, I would also like to point out the possibility of partial access to documents, where these considerations have been taken into account. The Supervisory and Constituent Committee provided for the transparency mechanism to be subject to unlawful supervision or to uninstructed registration. We see it as natural that uninstructed use is also covered. This has emerged in the consultation round, including: by the Advocate General, that there should be greater transparency in older documents. The Workers' Party agrees with this and supports the Ministry's proposal to provide an extended transparency of documents and information prior to the supervision instruction of 1977, but here also limited by the exemption I have explained. The right of access after this date, until 1996, is limited to documents or information where the collection, registration or use was not based on applicable legal provisions, regulations or instructions. We believe that full transparency before 1977, without this condition as a starting point, will strengthen the main objective of the transparency mechanism, but nevertheless take care of the concerns of Stortinget in its leadership. The Workers' Party supports the proposal that telephone control cases should not be exempted from access rights, even if there are conflicting arguments. We stress that the processing body should not assess whether the telephone check was lawful, in relation to the legal consent at the time, but that the processing body should assess, on the basis of the documents currently available, whether the verification satisfied the requirements of the law in order to carry out such a check. It is shown here, among others. to the majority of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee in the context of the examination of the report of the Lund Commission and their assessment of the rules on telephone checks, where the majority could not see that the wording opened up confusion. By excluding the possibility of transparency for persons who have been intercepted by telephone, the possibility of implementing a system which would create confidence in the transparency of the matters to which it should be granted will be greatly reduced. It is precisely in the telephone control cases – to the extent and practice – that there has been considerable criticism, both against the police and the courts. I refer here to the Lund Commission, as among others. has stated: ‘The Commission’s studies show that monitoring the use of telephone controls by the service has in many cases gone beyond the legal framework.’ The party agrees that financial compensation, limited up to NOK 100000, may be granted to persons who have suffered serious damage as a result of the collection, registration or use of information without authorisation under the applicable law. If illegal space listening or telephone checking has been carried out without a decision in court, we believe that this has led to serious damage to the person concerned. Compensation shall be possible for both economic and non-economic damage. The majority of the Stortinget considered, in the context of the Lund Commission, that an application for transparency at first instance should be dealt with by the monitoring police. However, in view of the need for transparency and the danger of a greater number of complaints, the Workers' Party agrees with the Ministry's proposal to establish a separate treatment body, administratively governed by the Ministry of Justice, to examine the requests for transparency and compensation. The monitoring police are given an opinion here on the matters in which the body has come to have access to it. We also agree that the processing body can downgrade documents and that the head of defence will be at the disposal of the adviser on downgrading. There is also reference to the law of the surveillance police. With regard to the right to know that information about yourself has not been registered, this should follow the same time limit as the other arrangements, with a distinction before and after 1977 – this in order to prevent such a right from revealing, for a later period, registration methods with regard to whom the police have followed. The working party also agrees to establish a separate body to deal with complaints of refusal of access. It has been assessed whether the EOS Committee can carry out such a task, but on the basis of the expected scope of work together with the other control activities of this sample, this is considered difficult to achieve. The EOS Committee broadly shares this main conclusion. In any case, a system should be established whereby the EOS Committee receives information and copies of the decisions of the handling body. The only point where the Workers' Party distinguishes layers with the remainder of the majority in the present position is the possibility of requiring the maculation or deletion of incorrect or unlawful information. I am referring here to the fact that the Ministry of the Draft Consultation was in favour of such a right for the granted person. However, following objections from the Riks archivist, the Government has changed its mind and proposes that all material be handed over to the Riksarchiv to ensure the most complete documentation possible for future studies of history. I understand the views of the National Archivist, but with the macularization that has taken place following instructions, the material that might have to be handed over will under no circumstances give a complete picture of the situation. However, the working party considers that there are strong reasons against the retention of data concerning those who have been illegally registered and have been misregistered. I believe it would be unreasonable for those who after many years receive confirmation of suspicion of illegal surveillance to accept that the information collected is still to be found in public archives. A rule on keeping incorrect or unlawfully collected information is, in fact, a breach of the requirement for the regular deletion and mutilation of data in the personal data registers, and that also applies to the registers of the surveillance police. Therefore, the Workers’ Party promotes a minority proposal for a right of access under the Transparency Act to require the mutilation of incorrect or unlawful information. For the time being, we take note of the administrative and economic consequences of the transparency mechanism described. This will need to be considered in greater detail by the Ministry when it comes back to Stortinget with the necessary proposals for appropriations. The Judicial Committee today presents a position which is a natural and necessary follow-up to the review by the Storting of the report by the Lund Commission. The Ministry's proposals and the position of the Judicial Committee are largely based on the leadership of the Stortinget in the past. Where the proposals differ, these changes take even more account of the objective of the transparency mechanism, with a focus on the widest possible transparency and trust. I am thinking here of increased transparency before 1977 and the creation of a separate treatment body before applying for transparency. The Workers' Party expects the Transparency Act to contribute to the correction of the wrongs committed against individuals and to ensure the widest possible transparency of personal data. It can clean up the air, as some people say. It is important for the individuals concerned, and for society and the authorities as a whole. I would also argue that it is of importance for the surveillance police and the important tasks the agency has been set up to perform in the future. I haven't spent much time polishing against the minority in my post. I will not do that either, but I note that they repeat their primary position from the treatment of the Lund Commission’s report – that they believe there is no need for a law of transparency, and will not give individuals the opportunity to obtain information about their own person, even where the registration has taken place through illegal methods, and that it will not have adverse effects on either the country, the police or privacy. What is it to hide? I note, however, that the Right Party and the Advance Party, who actually want to cover all the information, in the setting seems to share the opinion that incorrect and unlawfully collected information could be required to be deleted, and I am pleased that the representative Simonsen confirmed it in his post. With this I address the proposal from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e175	Vidar Bjørnstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e178	Ot. pp. No 6 and this setting is the result of Storting’s treatment of the Lund Commission’s report. When examining the report of the Lund Commission, the majority asked for proposals for such a temporary law to be submitted to the Stortinget, and the Christian People's Party is pleased with the proposal that the department has now submitted. This Act on the transparency of police records and records is significant because it ends a long and important process of making allegations about the illegal monitoring of Norwegian citizens in the postwar period. Now, persons who have been registered or monitored between 8 May 1945 and 8 May 1996 may have access to documents where this information has been recorded. The Christian People's Party supports the Ministry that the conditions of transparency should be different, depending on whether the monitoring took place before or after 24 November 1977, when we received new monitoring instructions. The law respects the legal and data protection considerations that require individuals to have a right to know what is registered on their own. The Christian People's Party believes it is important to take care of the integrity of the individual in relation to the public. However, the same considerations – legal certainty and data protection considerations – also indicate that transparency must be exercised in a way that ensures other persons who may be mentioned in the documents in question. There are a lot of considerations to be taken when creating a law like this. The monitoring police also have interests that need to be taken into account — in particular, the Christian People's Party would point out that it is important to maintain relations with foreign countries, and that consideration of the tasks and methodology of the monitoring service may also indicate limitations in the right of access. Security considerations must also be taken into account. The Christian People's Party seems to have balanced the different considerations in a good way. The Christian People’s Party has read the police’s letter to the Ministry of Justice, dated 16 February 1999, expressing concerns about relations with foreign countries and the relationship with bilateral agreements concluded by Norway on the treatment of classified information. The Christian People's Party will stress that this is taken care of in the bill. On page 11 of the Innst. O. No 30 it says that ‘no transparency shall be provided when it would prejudice the police’s efforts to prevent and investigate crime or Norway’s relationship with a foreign country. ’ This has also been agreed by the majority. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that the matters addressed by the surveillance police in the letter have been properly addressed. The Ministry of Justice, in a letter to the Presidentship of Stortinge, said that the Ministry would consider clarifying this in a regulation. We in the Christian People's Party think that is a good suggestion. We have also been very concerned about how to process the material contained in the files and records of the surveillance police after being given transparency. The Christian People's Party understands that there are good reasons to give the individual a right to demand the mutilation of the documents. However, when we have not supported such a rule, it is because we have placed a decisive emphasis on the fact that such a right of maculation will damage the possibility of studying in the future and possibly investigating individual cases or epochs in the history of Norwegian surveillance police. However, in the interests of the individual who has been illegally monitored, it should be noted on the document itself that it contains incorrect information. It is important that the recording is done on the document itself, so that no one can avoid noticing the correction. It is important for the Christian People's Party that the injustice that has affected individuals is clearly remedied. We think this law will do that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e205	The purpose of this law should be three things: firstly, to ensure a good and forward-looking surveillance police force, which can spend time on what is important for the country; secondly, to ensure good cooperation with the secret services of other countries; and, thirdly, to ensure the legal certainty and the upswing of those who have suffered injury as a result of unlawful surveillance. I think, unfortunately, that not all of these three points are sufficiently well taken care of in the attitude that is now being treated, and that it would have been possible to achieve all of these three objectives in a much better way. The extensive transparency of surveillance police documents open to the majority could quickly weaken Norway’s relationship with other countries’ secret services. I can see the letter from the head of surveillance dated 10 February dealing with it in a good way. The head of monitoring is in doubt that ‘the processing body may itself perform an upgrading of documents in respect of which access is granted’. He refers to the fact that there has been insufficient discussion of ‘if such a treatment body can be given competence’ — formally — ‘to degrade documents from foreign cooperating services, NATO documents, or other international documents’. The Monitoring Manager further states that this case does not take sufficient account of ‘public-law issues’. I note that the Ministry of Justice has written a reply of 16 February to the Presidency of the Grand Duchy, and that the Ministry of Justice believes that the concerns of the head of police are addressed in the draft law. In particular, I would like to highlight the recent response from the Department: ‘In the light of the supervisor’s enquiry, the Ministry will consider whether this should be clarified in a regulation based on the draft law, Section 14. ‘... So what's important to us is that the relationship with secret services and other countries doesn't get hurt, makes it even more obvious. I noticed that the Christian People's Party representative, Mr Marthinsen's posts, had a positive support for the ministry's proposal to create a regulation that would clarify this. I would therefore like to take the opportunity to say that I assume that a clear majority in the Committee on Justice and the European Parliament now expect such an instruction to come, and that it will not only be considered in the Department, but that it will actually take place. I then interpret the representative's statements so that the Christian People's Party supports it. And then I take it as a matter of course that also the Advance Party and the Right give their support to the instruction, and that we can therefore be absolutely sure that it will come. Then we might have strengthened the relationship with the secret services in other countries a little bit through the clearance round that has been here in the hall. I want to touch on what I said about the surveillance police being able to focus on working forward-looking on matters that are important to the country. The transparency bureaucracy we are now putting up with will have a significant cost side, which is completely unnecessary in relation to the objective we have of providing compensation for those who have suffered injuries. We're talking about a $20 million bill. Plus 20 million. kr to implement the scheme – and after a moderate estimate of how many will turn and ask for transparency. If we get a situation like the one they got in Switzerland, where very many of the reasons for curiosity wanted to take advantage of the transparency, the costs and red tape of this system can quickly exceed the figures here suggested. I want to put this in context with what we work for in terms of police resources in other areas. We know that the justice sector needs 50 million. kr for salary increases to the courts. We know we need 50 million. kr to prevent operational cut-offs at the political boundaries around the country. So it's going to take $40 million. kr, which is a very low estimate, and distribute to a retrospective business that is strictly not necessary in order to help those who have suffered overload, I think I am throwing money out of the window and the wrong use of police resources. I also think it is very serious that eight experienced police officers in the POT have to sit and spend their time on this work. The right is therefore contrary to the whole law, and we are disappointed that neither the Workers' Party nor the Government's parties here share the Right's view. In addition, the right is concerned that the entire transparency law has constitutionally very worrying aspects. In fact, it is an element of an ex-post approach to see whether telephone checks, which were then decided upon with the approval of the Court of Justice, are illegal. The main speaker of the Workers' Party, Vidar Bjørnstad, correctly states that it is not necessary to evaluate afterwards whether telephone checks were lawful, but it is necessary to consider in retrospect whether the ‘telephone checks seem to meet the requirements of the law’. I have to say I have problems seeing the huge difference in it afterwards to check whether the telephone check satisfied the law's requirements, and it later said that the telephone check was illegal. Here we are talking about rounder formulations of something very similar to each other, and I fully agree with the monitoring police who say that this has a very highly suspicious side, and that also says the department itself in the proposition, where they are discussing this problem. Finally, I want to dwell on the objective that people who have suffered injustice as a result of surveillance, of course, should have a claim for compensation. And I think it's disappointing that the majority has not been able to go beyond what the ministry suggests. If they had followed the proposals of the Right and Advance Party – which are well along the way in line with the views of the County of Oslo and Akershus – they could have gone in and awarded compensation to all those who have suffered damage as a result of surveillance, regardless of whether the surveillance was so-called lawful or illegal. In order for a country to protect itself against espionage and other activities that may harm its security, it is sometimes necessary to monitor a far greater number than those who actually intend to engage in illegal activities. And then there will also be a danger that innocent people will suffer harm, even when the monitoring is legal. If one had instead gone for the proposal of the Right Party and the Advance Party, we would have achieved the primary, namely that everyone who can prove damage had been compensated – instead of what we might experience now, that someone who has actually suffered damage, but who unfortunately has been legally monitored, does not get the uplift that the State should give them. In this context, I think that the position of the Judicial Committee does not meet any of the three central objectives we had, and I find it regrettable that it has not been possible to have a majority to at least compensate for those who have suffered damage.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e236	The Lund Commission report found that the current monitoring police instructions were not followed against Norwegian citizens. In addition, it was also established that methods have been used that were not compatible with Norwegian law. When the Stortinget examined the Lund Commission's report, they asked the Government to propose a law on limited transparency in police records and archives and to propose rules on compensation. In the present setting, the legislative proposal for a time-limited transparency of surveillance police archives and registers is open. The scheme aims at ensuring the protection of privacy and legal certainty of individuals on the one hand and the interests of the Community and the security of the State on the other. The legislative proposal therefore contains, as already mentioned by several, some exceptions, such as: the country's security, privacy, consideration of police sources, the names of officials or judges. Nor shall transparency be granted if it could harm police methods or relations with cooperative services. On this occasion, we have become aware, as others have pointed out, of the monitoring director's letter of 10 February to the Ministry, which states that the draft law does not discuss the importance of the existence of agreements with foreign countries on the processing of classified information. In contrast to the view of the chairperson of the committee, the draft law takes into account the factors pointed out by the head of monitoring. Transparency shall be refused if it could prejudice Norway’s relationship with a foreign country. This is set out in Section 2 of the draft law. If Norway has committed itself to a foreign country or international organisation, such as NATO, to an obligation under international law not to provide transparency without clarifying this with the provider of the information, it will make it impossible for the treatment body to provide transparency until such clarification has taken place. I also believe that the majority are satisfied that the department says that it may be appropriate to clarify this in a regulation or in Section 14 of the Act, not least in the light of the enquiry made by the head of monitoring. In the Centre Party, a strong desire has been expressed for a very long time to correct the injustice committed against individuals. We are also of the opinion that it should be possible to complete the investigation in a manner that provides confidence, it is absolutely necessary for the individual Norwegian citizen to be given the possibility of access to the information recorded by the surveillance police. Finally, at the end of this special case, there is every reason to signal satisfaction that the majority of the Committee endorses the main points of the Government's proposal for transparency.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e262	SV is pleased that Odelstinget now adopts a law of transparency. This is a consequence of all the abuses against individuals, the political environment, democracy and the rule of law that the Lund Commission has revealed. This can be a victory for all the victims who have been hurt, and who can now get an upliftment, and it is definitely a victory for the many on the left who have put down a lot of work, who have their mouths out in an independent investigation. In that work SV and SF have had a front role. A review of the issues dealt with in the Storting from 1945 to 1995 shows that SV and SF have promoted most issues related to the intelligence and surveillance service. Without this work, there would have been no Lund Commission and no transparency, which, in our opinion, could be an instrument for uplifting people. There's one person that needs to be mentioned today, and that's Petter Thomassen from the Right. Without his work, there had also been no independent investigation, and SV is therefore deeply disappointed that the Right now is back in the previous fold. As I said, SV is happy that we're getting an access permit. In our opinion, the law is not good enough to ensure that the majority of people have said in the past are important, that people need a basis to know if they have been monitored, so that they can seek compensation. The law is not good enough because the exceptions from the right to transparency are too many. In 1977, for many who were exposed to surveillance up to at least 1988, there is no automatic right to know whether they have been monitored, and we are strongly critical of the fact that the Storting should not appoint the treatment body and the complaint body. This I will come back to. But first to what's good. The scope of transparency in theory is quite wide, e.g. the legislative proposal states that information which has been collected in an orderly manner, but which has not been used in an orderly manner, shall require transparency. This means that if the service has obtained information on an orderly basis, but without instructions has passed it on to an enterprise or another country's service, there is a requirement for transparency. Another example is that the Government has gone beyond the Lund Commission in defining what can be considered registration. Furthermore, it is gratifying that the concept of gross error appears to be interpreted quite a bit. So to the criticism that is the basis for our amendments. It is our basic position that everyone should have the right to know if they have been monitored. That right is not granted by introducing a time-limit in 1977. This is justified by the fact that it was when the surveillance police received an instruction that prohibited the monitoring of political opinions. However, the investigations showed that the surveillance police did not follow this direction. Personally, I agree with a minority in the Danielsen Committee, who are in favour of permanent transparency. But when a person first introduces a separation of time, 1988 is the most logical if the objective of this law is transparency as a general rule and not as an exception. What happened on April 18, 1988? Well, then there was a circular that tightened up surveillance, and the Lund Commission has not found many rough examples of monitoring after that time. I refer to our proposal for new Section 1. If transparency is to be the general rule, the exemptions must not go as far as is provided for in Section 2. We believe that it should be maintained by the concept of ‘the security of the kingdom’ rather than by the open concept of ‘safety’. We suggest that only when, after review, cooperative services oppose transparency can an exception be made for information. The most important thing is how exceptions are practiced, and then I get to the points where SV is most critical. There has been so much cooperation between the ministry and the police that opening up the administration to appoint the treatment body and the complaint body may be to allow the goat to take care of the oat sack. Here, the Storting must hold the power over the unobserved darkness of the secret spaces and appointed treatment and complaint bodies. The whole process shows how important it is for legal protection and democracy that we have a surveillance service with the most transparency possible, under popular control. Therefore, the Schengen Agreement and the treatment of the Danielsen Committee are important milestones for the observance of these important democratic principles. On behalf of SV, I address the proposals No. 2 and 3, which are distributed in the seats of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e291	Ågot Valle has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's being opened for line change. The President is required to continue the morning meeting until the current map has been completed. But if lines are opened to an extended extent, the President will have to come back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e298	I have to be very short. I just wanted to use the loophole to make a statement in relation to SV. The Chief Spokesman expressed disappointment that the Right had turned in relation to the line of Petter Thomassen. I just want to make it clear that in the Lund Commission's position, Innst. S. No 240 for 1996-97, on pages 107 and 108, it says that also at the time, right-wing access, and Petter Thomassen's comment and position were entirely in line with what the Right believes now. Similarly, the Lund position, related to the replacement, states that the Right is in favour of replacement. The fact that today we are actually in favour of an extended replacement in relation to what the Right went into the Lund position, I think, on the contrary, will be completely in the spirit of Petter Thomassen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e306	I'm recording the clarification. I will nevertheless stick to the rose of Petter Thomassen that he was the one who opened because we today have the law of transparency. I also want to maintain the criticism of the Right of the signals they give by joining the Progress Party in this matter. It's to signal that you're back in the folder when it comes to secrecy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e311	This means that the line change/clarify the round is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e314	The left is pleased that the Lund Commission's report is being followed up on the fact that there is now a law that provides transparency in police records and records. Today's arrangements make it almost impossible for those who have been illegally monitored to have access to their own case. Several thousand people have been subjected to illegal surveillance in Norway in the post-war period. The Lund Commission has identified many of these cases, including: Monitoring policies have been used to monitor different policy groupings. In this context, it is important that those who have been subjected to illegal surveillance, or their closest ones, be able to see as much as possible what has been registered about them. It is also positive that compensation is now granted for the abuses to which they have been subjected. The new Transparency Act ensures both transparency for those who have been illegally monitored and monitoring the need of police forces to protect certain information. This applies, inter alia, to: information likely to damage the relationship with foreign countries and security and privacy considerations. The left believes that the law well balances these different considerations. The left sees the new Transparency Act as an important measure for increased legal certainty. The serious conditions revealed by the Lund Commission must never be allowed to happen again. The monitoring police shall perform important tasks, which they must allow to be carried out. In order to have credibility, the surveillance police must also have democratic legitimacy. It is therefore particularly important that an institution such as the surveillance police is now reformed and brought under better democratic control. The law of limited transparency of police archives and registers helps to complete this work and ensure legal certainty.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e331	Before the next speaker is given the floor, the President will recall that the scheduled time for the morning meeting is soon to come. The President will, as previously indicated, propose that this meeting continue until the current map has been completed – and considers it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e334	I think it's important, right and actually necessary that we, as a follow-up to all that scrutiny and treatment, I had almost said it through, we've had about the surveillance police tasks and roles in Norway after the war, get a law of transparency that allows us to put all these relationships behind us. There is no doubt that there are people in this country who have suffered legal loss, or have come into a very unfortunate or unpleasant situation as a result of having been illegally monitored. On the other hand, there is no doubt that the work of the police surveillance service since the war has been absolutely necessary, so that we have been able to secure general legal security requirements and opportunities for growth for the Norwegian population after the war. Nor is there any doubt that the struggle between the large blocs during the Cold War was tough in many ways, it was hard, and that it was absolutely necessary for the Norwegian authorities through the surveillance police to follow closely and be able to respond, so that no one would be tempted in many ways to ‘treache’ their country. So when the Stortinget, also signed, now strongly supports this law of transparency, it's not primarily because I want to criticise everything the police surveillance service has done over the years, or to suspect them. I do it because it is necessary, when it was revealed – to someone's surprise, to others' confirmation – that the police over decades had actually violated the instructions they had to work for. Of course, if you go too far, you can destroy the police's ability to do their job in the future, because no one has to believe that the external threats are gone, even if the cold war is over. However, the threats take other forms, but nevertheless it is necessary to have an up-to-date, active and highly qualified surveillance police force capable of assisting and protecting this society from intruders and criminals. But I think the exceptions proposed in Section 2 are sufficient to ensure that this right of access does not in any way destroy the police's ability to work further, for the benefit of society. The exceptions proposed are that I note that the representative Valle of SV is against, she thinks they are going too far. On my side, I would say that I think they hit just, because one takes into account the individual right, but also that the consideration of the security of the kingdom sometimes has to go ahead of the rights of individuals. It is not the monitoring police themselves that are to distinguish between this, it shall be a government-appointed body. And I appreciate that the middle parties when they came into government actually realized that it is possible to trust that a government can appoint a body that can stand for security and guarantee legal certainty. I am convinced that with the way you have chosen to do it now, by having the government appoint both the treatment body and the complaint subject, you are in many ways assured that you get a non-political composition, and you are assured that you get people with high integrity and a high level of competence. Personally, I do not think that the appointment of such a body is suitable for bulk treatment, and I am therefore pleased that the government has chosen this solution. It's obvious that someone might be entitled to a greater substitute than the limit set in the law. On the other hand, it is always difficult in retrospect to assess what would be a legitimate compensation for the disadvantage suffered. And it's always hard to imagine what a life course would be like. on the basis of other information, he/she had received the security clearance that he/she might have had. I think the government and the committee are doing the right thing when they use the institution we've been set up through cheap substitutes to be able to give an amount without having to go into a comprehensive legal assessment of the amount of compensation. It would be to hope that we are now at the end of dealing with the questions that it is natural to deal with as a consequence of the Lund Commission's decision. It is also to hope that when the period covered by the law is over, we shall have the damage done, but we shall also be able to look forward. I have to take a sharp distance from the representative Simonsen when he suggests – in fact more than suggests – that with this law we are involved in destroying the employment opportunities of police surveillance in the future. I certainly don't think we do. But we may agree to give the surveillance police the trust and the foundation that enables them to do their job, knowing that at any time they have the upsurge of their work by the Stortinges and the Norwegian people, and that you can feel sure that no one is doing anything to the detriment of individuals if you suspect that you are going beyond the instructions that apply. A society cannot be regulated in detail by laws and regulations. Of course, it will always be that from time to time there will be someone who has to exercise judgment. People always bring in information, and it will always be so that information can be incorrect. It may also be that we receive incorrect information as a consequence of illegally obtained/collected material. I would therefore strongly recommend the proposal put forward by the Workers' Party that privacy be taken into account here before the need to keep records. I think it must be a human right to get removed from archives incorrect and illegally obtained information about individuals. That is why I am pleased that the Workers' Party has, through this process, found room to promote this proposal which I hope can be supported by more than just the Advance Party when it is being dealt with in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e360	The Lund Commission's report revealed that there have been regulatory violations by the surveillance police against Norwegian citizens. The service instructions in force at any time have not been followed and methods have been used in breach of Norwegian law. In the context of the review of the Commission’s report by the Stortingen Authority, the Government was asked to make proposals for the law on limited transparency of surveillance police archives and registers. The government was also asked to propose rules on how to implement a replacement charging scheme. The draft transparency law before us aims to correct the injustice committed against individuals, while safeguarding the importance of the monitoring service. The transparency mechanism further seeks to ensure both the legal certainty of individuals, the interests of the community and the security of the Kingdom. The scheme covers the period from 8 May 1945 to 8 May 1996 and implies that Norwegian citizens and residents of Norway are, as a general rule, given full transparency of the records of the surveillance service in respect of them from 8 May 1945 to 24 November 1977. After that date, transparency will be conditional on the lack of any legal, regulatory or administrative basis for the collection, registration or use of the information. The distinction is made by the entry into force of the monitoring instructions of 1977. It was only by this instruction that the surveillance police could not obtain and record information on the sole basis of membership of a political organisation or activity. The proposal would lead to the non-transparent disclosure of documents, etc. where security or privacy considerations indicate that this should not be done. No information is available indicating sources, names of surveillance police officers or names of judges in telephone control cases. Furthermore, there is no transparency in information which may reveal the methods of the surveillance police or in information of such a nature that transparency may damage the relationship with a foreign country or cooperative service. In a letter of 10 February 1999 to the Ministry of Justice, the Head of Monitoring has, among other things: expressed that the Ministry's examination of the legislative proposal did not discuss the importance of the existence of agreements with foreign countries on the treatment of classified information. In my opinion, the bill takes into account the circumstances pointed out by the monitoring manager. The Ministry has explained this in a letter of 16 February 1999 to the Presidency of the Grand Duchy. Transparency shall be refused if it could prejudice Norway’s relationship with the foreign country, see paragraph 1. Section 2 of the draft law. If Norway has committed itself to a foreign country or international organisation, such as NATO, to an obligation under international law not to provide transparency without clarifying this with the provider of the information, it will make it impossible for the treatment body to provide transparency until such clarification has taken place. As mentioned in the letter to the Presidentship of Storting, it may be appropriate to clarify this in a regulation according to Section 14 of the Act, not least in the light of the enquiry made by the Head of Monitoring. I can confirm this – it was requested, among others. by the Chairman of the Committee – that this will not only be assessed in the Ministry, but it will be clarified in a regulation, so that it becomes quite clear. It is not that the ministry has not thought about it, but the confirmation that this will be carried out is given. It is proposed that an individual be entitled to compensation in cases where the illegal or uninstructive activities of the police have caused serious adverse effects on him. In the case of the replacement measurement proposed limited up to NOK 100000 per year. the nature, use, scale, duration and likely injury to the individual shall be taken into account. Thus, any unincorporated collection, registration or use will not automatically lead to replacement. Transparency is proposed for a three-year period. This is expected to be sufficient to enable individuals to apply for transparency in police records and records. The examination of applications for transparency and compensation is proposed by a special body appointed by the King. The Ministry of Justice shall provide a secretariat to prepare the cases for the Registry. In addition, the legislative proposal provides for the appointment of a member to deal with complaints about applications for transparency and compensation. I am pleased that the majority of the Judicial Committee endorses the main points of the Government's proposal for transparency law. I am of the opinion that the bill takes care of all the transparency of a transparency system in a balanced way. The government has a strong desire to correct the injustice committed against individuals. In order to optimise the completion of the review of the performance of the surveillance service, it is necessary that the information recorded by the surveillance police be made available to the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e389	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e392	What made me take the floor was the intervention of the representative Kosmos, where he took a strong distance from the representative Simonsen's suggestion that this law of transparency would destroy the surveillance police. Fortunately, it's not that wrong. But this law will be detrimental to the work of the surveillance police for two reasons. The representative, Kosmo, said that there has been a lot of ‘control’ in the last few years around the surveillance police. For that very reason, he is in favour of the Transparency Act. That's the same thing as saying that after all the unrest we've now had around the surveillance police, it's okay with three more years of anxiety. In my opinion, it is not. Now the police need to be calmed down. The debate on the Lund Commission was not positive for the surveillance police. It created demoralization in the service. This led to qualified officials resigning from their jobs. That's why it's important that we now put this behind us, and you don't do it by three years with this transparency law. Second of all. This is about the use of resources. Now, eight officials will have to be used to organise and give hearing opinions. You can't use anyone. It is an important job to decide what information is to the detriment of collaborative services and to the detriment of the relationship with foreign powers, and to do this work one needs the most competent officials. So for three years to come, eight of the most experienced police officers will have to be tied up and replaced by eight new, fresh and not so experienced officials to do the most important work. For the most important surveillance police work, it is not possible to dig into old papers to satisfy the curiosity of some former Marxist-Leninists who, in the 1960s and 1970s, were followers of various dictators in Eastern Europe and various international terrorist organisations. The main work of monitoring police must be to prevent terrorism today and to prevent the loss of human lives. To do that, you need the most competent officials. Taking these out of this active work will damage the work of the police.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e399	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice. 2, 3 and 4 are treated together. [[Fooding, see page 216]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e433	Today we have three Document No. Eight proposals for consideration, all of which are subject to the provisions of the Administrative Act. Although we take all three matters in the same debate, I still have to comment on the individual proposal. I choose to take the suggestions in ascending order, so I start with Document No. 8:116 for 1997-98. The proposal by the Storing representatives Torbjørn Andersen, Øystein Hedstrøm and Lodve Solholm is about amending Section 6 of the Administrative Act, so that public officials who have senior positions in whole-time public companies that are party to the case become inhabile in line with representatives of private companies. There is a cross-political consensus in the Committee that there should be no doubt about the sustainability of public officials. And when an overall committee has come to the conclusion that we do not want to go into the wording that the proposers present, but will have the matter sent to the investigation and opinion, it has a different reason from the individual parties. Originally, there was a rule in the Administrative Act in line with what proposers promote in their private legislative proposal. When this rule was removed by a statutory audit in 1969, it had two main reasons: First, it was common practice for officials or elected representatives of the municipality/communities to have senior positions in municipal and county companies respectively. The combination was desirable for reasons of coordination, efficiency and governance. Secondly, it was considered unfortunate that the rules of liability could affect the type of organisation chosen for the company. So when the change was made, it was due to practical considerations and the needs of the municipalities. An increasing number of municipal service fields are being organised as independent legal entities, including: through whole-time municipal companies. All members of the Committee, with the exception of the Advance Party, stress the need for municipalities to have the greatest possible freedom to choose, both in terms of their organisational form and those most suitable to be heads of whole-time municipal companies. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that we avoid giving rules that create unnecessary difficulties in recruiting leadership positions. Not least, this could be a problem in smaller municipalities. Moreover, as the majority, we believe that the discretionary provision of the second paragraph of Section 6 of the Administrative Act respects the concerns of the proposers. This presupposes that the provision is followed up in line with the intentions of the law. For this reason, we believe that it would be absolutely of interest to obtain evidence of the experience of the rules of stability in municipalities and counties. In view of the possible problems that the rules may have caused, we can come back to the need for a change in the law. Otherwise, I have to make a note of an error in the Inst text. O. No 34 on page 2, right column, second paragraph and first line: the word "now" shall be deleted. the sentence is replaced by the following: ‘The majority does not have information to indicate that... ’ The next proposal is Document No. 8:118 for 1997-98, from the representatives Torbjørn Andersen, Harald T. Nesvik and Lodve Solholm. The proposal is about clarifying the formal grounds for rejecting a complaint. The proposers point to four points which are decided on as to why changes need to be made to the Administrative Act. It is because, according to them, first of all the unfortunate fact that it is the same body that has taken the decision, which also has to consider a complaint against the decision, second, that complaints are often rejected even if they should not have been so, thirdly, that there is often no reason why the complaint is rejected and fourthly that the rules on appeal against individual decisions are not exhaustive. If the Administrative Act does not take account of the concerns pointed out by the proposers, there would be good reason to make changes. But that's not the case. The Committee, with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, agrees that, if a complaint is rejected without justification, there is a procedural error. We believe it is very important that case handlers adhere closely to the rules governing the handling of individual cases. The case handler must also take into account the provision in Section 31 when considering whether a complaint should be rejected or dealt with in substance. Moreover, the content of the individual rules indicates that the complainant’s rights are respected when the law is complied with. However, if the proposers claim that ‘innumerable enquiries to the Progress Party show that administrative bodies use this provision in cases where it should not have been used’, then the Ministry of Justice should consider sending out a circular to remind the administration of how matters should be dealt with under the law. The majority of the Committee also considers that it is beneficial for the complainant to present the complaint to the body which has taken the decision. The complainant immediately knows where and to whom he should contact. All documents of the case are in place and the body is able to rectify manifestly incorrect decisions. In this way, it is possible to have the complaint tried in an instance before it is transferred to the overall Board of Appeal. This will increase the scope of the procedure, but to the benefit of the complainant. For the majority, it is also essential that the attached answers of the Council of State point out that if a reference is included in the third sentence of the third paragraph of Section 33 of the Act, § 29, 30 and 32, it will not have the effect on the proposers. The minority proposal for the Progress Party is quite different from that of the proposers, but it is justified in the vote. In the third proposal for amendments to the Administrative Act, by the representative Steinar Bastesen, expressed through Document No. 8:120 for 1997-98, decisions to postpone or not to deal with rejection decisions are also taken. It would thus be possible to appeal against the decision, an opportunity which the proposer does not consider to be available today. The Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, shall form a single majority. The disagreement does not concern whether it is important to prevent unnecessary length of proceedings or whether a substantive assessment of the case is carried out. However, the Committee distinguishes layers in its view on how and when to introduce deadlines. The Ministry, through the Yellow Book, has announced that it intends to make a proposal during March of this year. on time limits for administrative proceedings. The background of this proposition is, among other things, decisions of the Stortinget relating to the Innst. S. No 8 for 1994-95. For the majority, it is therefore sufficient that, in the context of the announced odelstingsproposition, we ask the Government to consider whether decisions not to deal with the case or to refer the case to a rejection decision should be treated as equivalent. The majority also point to the fact that the Economic and Social Committee has recommended the introduction of a basis in the Administrative Act to regulate time-limits in specific areas of activity, so that the time-limits in question can be adapted to the individual subject-matter. The majority also emphasise that administrative matters are diverse in nature. Some people need only a short time to assess, while others will require a long time and complicated work. For this reason, we find it difficult to set a general deadline or introduce another type of general penalty option. In the light of this presentation, I recommend the Committee's settings to Document No. 8:116, Document No. 8:118 and Document No 8:120, all for 1997-98.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e483	I refer you to the proposal put forward in Document No. 8:116 for 1997-98. It is identical to the recommendation of the Smith Committee in NOU 1990:26 – Review of the Municipality of Oslo – Report No. 1st@item: inlistbox The committee presented, inter alia: that the combination of municipal and administrative functions could be unfortunate in cases where there were conflicts of interest between the company and the local authority. The risk of a representative identifying himself with the interests of the company will, in the opinion of the sample, be particularly great when he has active co-responsibility for the business of the company, including for the financial result. The main purpose of organising municipal activities in separate companies is often to relieve them in separate, autonomous profit-and-loss units and to limit the financial liability if a limited liability company is chosen. Representatives of the boards of limited liability companies will have a personal responsibility under the Share Act for the actions of the company. The proposed amendment to the Administrative Act provides for a substantial and necessary clarification of the rules on stability. The need to exercise discretion by applying the second paragraph of Section 6 of the Administrative Act, which states that the official is incapacitated if “special circumstances exist that are suitable for weakening the trust in his impartiality”, is eliminated in the cases where he has senior positions in publicly owned companies. Another important reason for applying the rules on interoperability is people's confidence in politicians. When one sees politicians sitting 'at both sides of the table', this includes and supports the ever-increasing political debate in the Norwegian people. There is nothing in the way that municipalities can place politicians in the organs of companies if the owners consider this appropriate. However, a natural consequence should be that they must resign when elected bodies where they are members deal with matters relating to the company in which they may be in the board of directors or other senior management positions. To date, the party is satisfied that an overall committee requests that the whole case be submitted to the Government for investigation and opinion with a view to returning with a legislative proposal. As regards Document No: 8:118 for 1997-98, the Progress Party will point out that decisions taken by the Municipal Council or by the county council, or by bodies delegated from them, comply with the rules of procedure laid down in the Administrative Act. Access to justice is granted only in individual decisions under the Administrative Act. A single decision may be appealed against by a party or others having a legal interest in the matter to the administrative body — the Board of Appeal — which is almost the administrative body which has taken the decision — the sub-committee. It is a problem that a statement of complaint should be made to the same body that has taken the decision. The sub-committee then has an opportunity to reject the complaint. Paragraph 33 states that the sub-committee shall reject the complaint if it finds that the conditions under which the complaint is lodged do not exist. The provisions state that a complaint shall be rejected if the procedural conditions for handling a complaint do not exist. This means that persons who complain about a decision often receive the complaints in return, stating that the conditions under which they complain do not exist – and that the same case handler who dealt with the case for the first time. Where one can then add that such rejection is not justified, to which an administrative body is obliged, it is particularly important to amend the law better to ensure the legal certainty of ordinary people. The Ministry has some legal objections to the proposed legislation, and we therefore do not consider it appropriate to promote the proposal in its present form. It is important that the proposal be followed up in an appropriate form to safeguard the intentions of the proposal. We therefore propose the following proposals: ‘The decision requests the Government to propose amendments to the rules of the Administrative Act on the rejection of complaints, so that the grounds for rejection are clarified and clarified in order to avoid the rejection of complaints on a lack of basis. ‘... So to Document No. 8:120 for 1997-98, proposal by the Danish Prime Minister Steinar Bastesen. There we have the clear feeling that it will be useful with a provision that sets a specific deadline and provides the parties to the case with sanctions when the administration clearly trains the case. As the Administrative Act states today, the parties to the proceedings stand without the possibility of sanctions if the administration fails to bring an action or postpones the case. It is only if the case is rejected or the decision is brought before the Court that the appeal may be brought, for the purposes of paragraphs 2 and 28. It should be noted that under Section 11(a) of the Administrative Act, the administrative body is to ‘prepare and settle the matter without undue delay’, which was also referred to by the case-rapporteur. However, the criterion ‘without undue delay’ is discretionary and does not take sufficient account of the parties, legal certainty or scope of the case. The law must be designed in line with people's legal opinions and not take into account often slow bureaucracy. Therefore, the Progress Party does not want the arguments of the bureaucracy on the variation of types of issues and the diversity of the activities of the administration to be crucial in order to counter proposals for time limits for the proceedings. The Administrative Act should be amended in such a way that decisions not to deal with the case or to stay the proceedings are treated as decisions of rejection. Such equality would ensure that private legal entities are guaranteed a substantive treatment within the specified time-limit – a proposal of six months. This will be a start to introduce more specified administrative deadlines. I am addressing the minority's proposals, which are in line with the wishes of the proposers.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e522	Jørn L. Stang has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e525	Document No 8:116 for 1997-98 concerns the problem of the stability of public officials and elected representatives in the governing bodies of public companies. In principle, the proposers bring important questions to the square. Initially, I agree with the intention of the proposal. It is worth noting that there was originally a rule in the Administrative Act that is very much in line with what the proposers promote in this proposal for a document. The reason for the removal of this rule by a statutory audit in 1969 was the case rapporteur, so it would be unnecessary for me to mention this in more detail. An important element in the assessment of the sustainability rules in the case of municipal and county companies is that, in the case of publicly owned companies, the State itself has imposed a ban on the type of job combinations in question. Much can speak for a similar practice in relation to positions in publicly owned companies, whether it is the State or the municipalities that stand as the public owner. Ideally, I believe, like the majority of the Committee, that the discretionary provision in the second paragraph of Section 6 of the Administrative Act should cover the matters put forward by the proposers. But since this is a judgement, there may be a danger that the reasons for instability may not always be met according to the intentions of the law. With regard to the practice, there may also be grounds to point to the last sentence of the second paragraph of Section 6, where it states: ‘It shall also be noted whether an objection of invalidity has been raised by a party. ‘... In practice, this means that if the question has been raised, the elected official or the public official should be regarded as being far-reaching. I myself have experience as a manager of the board of a public owned company, where I joined the local authorities in relation to Section 6 of the second line when matters in which the company was involved were dealt with. For my part, I think it worked well. The majority of the Committee shall sit per year. current date not enough information to say that the discretionary sustainability rule is not adequately followed up. However, in line with the statements and signals made by the proposers that otherwise come from different teams, I think it is right that we now ask the Department to come up with an inquiry and opinions on the issue raised in this Document No. The 8th proposal. This investigation will then clarify whether there is a need for regulatory changes in line with what is contained in the proposal. It is worth noting that an overall committee is now behind this proposal for a decision. As regards Document No: 8:118 for 1997-98 on the procedure in administrative matters, it is important to point out that the rules of procedure in force must be closely followed in dealing with individual cases and that there is a procedural error if a complaint is rejected without justification. Furthermore, it is worth noting that a complaint should be dealt with even if the time limit for appeal has expired, if a complaint cannot be loaded for missing the time limit, or that other specific reasons suggest that the complaint must be put to the test. This is the result of Section 31 of the Administrative Act. According to § 32 of the same law, if the complaint contains a lack of time, a period must be allowed to correct the deficiencies. I think it is right that the complaint should be made in the body that has taken the decision. One advantage of today's system is that a complaint/refusal can be tried by two bodies, which provides a more reassuring procedure. Based on what I have now said, I believe that the system should be as it is today. What is important, however, is that the Ministry of Justice closely monitor the follow-up of the law and, if necessary, remind the administration of how matters should be dealt with. The last case, relating to Document No. 8:120 for 1997-98, is also subject to administrative proceedings and, in view of the time-limits for the examination and assessment of whether a decision not to deal with a case or to stay proceedings, should be treated as equivalent to a decision of rejection. This latter point refers in particular to the need for an evaluation by the majority of the Committee. This is also in line with the wishes of the rapporteur. I think it's absolutely OK that the government will make an out-of-the-box proposition on these issues during March 1999.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e554	As regards the proposal in Document No: 8:120, I must say that I really thought that this was a very moderate proposal, and that it was possible for the committee to go in in order for people to be able to get answers to an administrative request. Because when you apply for something, you have to have a right to answer. When the new Administrative Act was adopted, it is clear that a brewer was made when he wrote ‘without undue delay’. At that time the politicians believed that the government had such a way of treating the matter without training it. The past has shown that too many cases are being trained for political or other reasons. That's why I found that I was going to try to make an effort for the problems of ordinary people when they meet overpowered, by promoting this proposal. When I proposed a maximum of six months as a deadline, so that you would have a chance to appeal the case to a higher body – that the case should be considered rejected after six months – I thought it was a simple matter that people could join. I wanted to suggest that if you had not received a response within six months, you could consider the application accepted, that is the way it should be. But I didn't do that now; I had faith that the committee could join this. It is possible that it would have been wrong for the committee, wrong for the Storting, if there had been a Lex Bastesen here. I understand the problem, but I don't understand the reason. The size said in 1994 that deadlines should be set, but a proposal for the Grand Duchy on time limits has not yet been made. So, the Ministry of Justice – of course very contradictory and reluctantly, the government has written it – says that they will present a proposition this year or next year. That's what the government says. At the formation of the Storting when I first came in, I said in the throne debate that this government could not be guaranteed eternal life. I still don't believe in them getting eternal life. Is this government sitting next year? We don't know. By agreeing to this decision, old Odelstinget said that it is this government that makes an odelsting proposal at the end of this year or next year. Because if there is a change of government, the government has won a victory again and can continue to train. I want to say it so strongly: they keep the Odelsting too fooled if this odelsting proposition doesn't come, and the Government goes off. I think it had been in its place that Odelstinget had gone in for this simple and moderate proposal of mine. I have to say it again: it is now almost six years since the Stortinget decided that deadlines should be set for the administrative proceedings, and then I believe that the request is full.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e567	There may be grounds for noticing the representative Bastisen's predictions of how long the government will live. We don't expect him to give us predictions of eternal life, we think maybe there are others who rule by. On the other hand, we're happy if he helps us in this period, so we'll sit down. We thought that would be good. But that's not why I took the word. It was to say that he may have misunderstood a little when it relates to the letter we sent to Stortinget, because it was sent last year. I can confirm that the proposition will probably come before Easter, but at least guaranteed in March-April. So the representative Bastesen can look forward to this, as he will be involved and deal with the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e574	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 2-4. [[Footing, see page 218]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e588	Since the case's rapporteur is a member of the Lagtinget, the first speaker is Finn Kristian Marthinsen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e591	The amendments to the Civil Law Act and the Adoption Act are aimed at: non-resident children under the age of 12 who are adopted by Norwegian citizens, automatically get Norwegian citizenship adopted children between the age of 12 and 18 may have Norwegian citizenship by notification The same applies to children born outside marriage with Norwegian father. It is a unanimous judiciary that supports the Government's proposal that automatic citizenship be granted to children under the age of 12 where at least one of the parents is a Norwegian national when consent to the adoption by the Norwegian authorities has been obtained in advance. The vast majority of children adopted to Norway are under 12 years of age. The Committee supports the principle of equality between adopted children and own-born children and that adoption children between the ages of 12 and 18 should have Norwegian citizenship without any requirement for residence in the State. For this age group, written notice must be given ‘to the service authority established by the King’, as stated in the law, and the child must have consented to such notification. The Committee stresses that the principle that children of this age should be entitled to express their opinion and be heard is thereby respected. These conditions also oblige adoptive parents to carefully assess what is best for the child, together with the child. The Committee took note of the Ministry's assessment that dual citizenship may arise when foreign children who are adopted are automatically granted Norwegian citizenship. Norwegian law is based on the principle of avoiding, as far as possible, double citizenship. However, this principle does not apply if dual citizenship occurs automatically, as if, for example: birth, marriage, etc. It should also be noted that where the proposal leads to double citizenship by adoption, the situation is the same as if the child was born by Norwegian mother and foreign father. This does not create problems from the Norwegian side. The legislation of some countries may result in the automatic withdrawal of the citizenship of the adopted child if he/she automatically becomes a Norwegian national. The Committee welcomes the fact that the revision results in a simplification of the law and supports the principle behind the legislative proposal to assimilate children born inside and outside marriage as far as possible. The majority of the Committee supports the fact that a child should have Norwegian citizenship when: the father has adopted the hazard or the hazard has been established by judgment and the father was a Norwegian national when the child was born. If the risk dies before the child is born, the child may become a Norwegian national when: the father had put on his father's or father's later convictions and the father was a Norwegian citizen when he died; The majority support these conditions and consider them to be both factual and important. The majority agree that the parent(s) may submit a notification that the child is to become a Norwegian national and that if more than one member is a member of the parental responsibility, all must agree to be notified. The principle that consent should be obtained from the child is 12 years old, legalised. A decision relating to citizenship shall be regarded as an individual decision having legal effect. The majority of the Judicial Committee agrees that cases of doubt and rejection shall be referred to the Directorate of Foreign Affairs for first reading by the Ministry of Justice as the Board of Appeal. With this, I recommend the Committee's recommendation for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e655	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 219]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e669	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 220]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e677	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 - 6.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e684	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is proposal No. 1, by Vidar Bjørnstad on behalf of the Workers' Party, and proposals No. 2 and 3 from Ågot Valle on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, says: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals to enable the person granted transparency under the Transparency Act to require the maculation/ erasure of incorrect or illegally obtained information. ‘... Proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The decision requests the Government to submit proposals giving the person granted the right of access under the Transparency Act the right to require the mutilation/ erasure of incorrect or unlawful information. The person who has been granted access, where incorrect or unlawful information has been obtained, may, under certain conditions, authorise the archiving of material for historical reasons. ‘... Both proposals are in line with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of Stortinget’s Rules of Procedure to send the Stortinget. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 2, from Sosia LISTY Left Party, and then above the setting. The proposal from the Socialist Left is as follows: ‘Proposal for a amendment to the Decision of the Temporary Act on the restriction of the transparency of surveillance police archives and registers [[transparency law]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e939	Here, the Progress Party and the Right want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e950	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Advance Party and the Right will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e961	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e979	During the debate, Mr L. Stang put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requests the Government to propose an end-to-point approach to the rules of the Administrative Act on the rejection of complaints, so that the grounds for rejection are clarified and clarified in order to avoid the rejection of complaints on a lack of basis. ‘... The proposal of the Progress Party will be in line with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Stortingen Rules of Procedure to transmit the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e992	The President assumes that the Advance Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e1005	During the debate, Mr L. Stang put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The law on administrative procedures shall be amended as follows: [[Administrative Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e1092	Here the Progress Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e1125	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e1132	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e1169	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e1176	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18-lower.ana.ud2236e1185	There is no record.
