ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25-2.ana.ud206e28	The text of the interpellation by the representative Svein Ludvigsen was clear speech, including: the main challenges of human vision and attitudes in focus. The interpellation is based on what happens in Tana. In a small, transparent society, the problems and consequences become so obvious. There are words of the despair, remorse, shame and sense of helplessness experienced by the inhabitants. In small environments you meet in different forums and have to deal with each other regardless of whether or not the community is going to get completely out of control. That must be incredibly tough! But prostitution is not a unilateral Tana problem. It's spread to all of Finnmark. Nevertheless, there is certainly a national case. The interpellant debate is useful, a debate that is needed both inside and outside Finnmark and the landfill. It is important for society as a whole, and it is both a debate on justice and a debate on value and morals. The boundaries are moved a little after a while, and we easily lose the necessary holistic strength – including the consequences. To give some examples: porn and prostitution have become more lucrative, the sex industry has more and more women as backers, female editors in porn leaves and strippers as tasty at work. What is the basis for human vision? What is the value of women when they are to be bought, used – and finished? And what does it do to the woman? They say they can become cynical. A lot of people think it's wasted starting relationships with men. They feel they've seen through men, and they don't like what they see. The sex industry is growing and taking new paths. For each seller there are perhaps ten buyers. It's money to make, lots of and fast money, and for some people maybe a way to make a living for themselves and their families or to get a little extra for more material things. Other alternatives to making money can be an important contribution. Cooperation with the Russian authorities is becoming important, also in order to identify the organisation of prostitution and the main purpose of criminal groups in getting their footholds in Norway. The justice sector must take its part in the task, as the Council of State has explained in this case. Nobody can care about it, because it takes a broad mobilisation both centrally and locally to put things in place. We will have a case of sexual offences in the Stortinget later, as with a broad review also in relation to the penal code. The debate is important – a settlement of opinions – because it has a long-term and crucial role to play. We know that women often get a dulled emotional life as a result of prostitution. It has not been as easy to get customers to speak. What are their thoughts and feelings? If we are to live up to demand, men's attitudes and views on women in general, and prostitutes in particular, must also be seen. That's why it's important that so many men gradually address this topic and make it an equality with manning.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25-2.ana.ud206e49	Interpellant and others here have described the serious situation that has developed in several communities in Finnmark due to prostitution. It's all quite tragic! Finnmark and Russia have a long tradition of living together and have a common interest in having good neighbourly relations. Therefore, it is more than sad that the relationships between the two peoples are no longer characterized by cooperation and respect, but by the purchase and sale of sexual services. In the field of prostitution, gender is about power. Men abuse women, and women abuse themselves. We have a lot of knowledge about what assaults do to the victims. We know why women are on the gender market. We know what leads to prostitution and what makes women stick to it. The debate that is taking place largely in society is about women on the gender market. And I ask, where are the measures and the professionals that should have been committed to the much larger group in the sex trade, namely the customers? What if we were as thorough as we describe past prostitutes, could begin to map, describe and explain the customers? And I mean explain, not understand and defend. Then we wouldn't have a discussion about women's abduction, but a discussion about man's power and abuse of power. Does the Minister of Justice have any thoughts about this? The criminalisation of the whores and the prostitutes I don't think will solve any problem. It will primarily affect women because they have to operate in the hidden. They will thus become more dependent on the pimps and the backmen, and it will be more difficult to take the real perpetrators. Prostitution is a social problem that concerns us all, and that's why it's also a social responsibility to do something about it. No one can live unaffected by the fact that women and children are for sale. It is reassuring that the government is now addressing the problems. After listening to the Minister of Justice, I have to say that I am confident that the Government will do something, and that the measures and instruments outlined will be followed up. The situation requires action now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25-2.ana.ud206e62	Prostitution is a sign of disease in several communities in Finnmark. The growing prostitution will spread like fire in dry grass unless countermeasures are taken to combat it. It is Tana who has got the search light directed at him, but through media lookups we know that several places in Finnmark are under strong pressure. My particular impression is that a growing proportion of the local population, politicians and organisations in Finnmark are trying to help overcome the problems. They are not doing this big task alone, and I am therefore very pleased that the Council of State and the Government are now addressing the problem of the seriousness and the weight it deserves: strengthening police forces with multiple disturbances in the prostitution environment, tightening visa controls at the border, careful follow-up in the health sector and awareness-raising work, and also more establishments that house whoredoms can be closed. It's the government's recipe to fight prostitution in Finnmark. This broad effort cannot have been brought by the representative Ludvigsen when he almost accuses the Government of being passive in relation to taking action. Then it is reassuring to note that in an interview in the Nordlys newspaper, the county rapporteur in Finnmark, Evy-Ann Midttune, is pleased with the government's clear commitment to priority action against the Russian prostitution in Finnmark. There's also another dimension in this that I want to emphasize, and it's the good relations with our brothers in the East who have evolved not least through Barents' cooperation. Although the problems in Skippagurra, Alta and Kirkenes are serious and must be treated seriously, we cannot wash out our relationship with the Russians with the bathing water. After we've pulled the Iron Curtain aside, we've restored an old neighborhood. We can't afford to lose it again, at least not as a result of a few cynical Northmen and Russian Mafia going to kick off the most primitive of our lusts. There must be a strong response to crime and a socially destructive activity that is suffocating individual communities in Finnmark. But it must not lead to such rigid rules for visas that we can end up jeopardizing our building of trust in the smooth Russians. Tana is a pearl of many qualities. The population lives in a multicultural environment, with a fantastic nature right outside the living room. However, many in Tana have gradually begun to suffer prostitution, and the other things that accompany such traffic. If there is someone who has to leave there, there should be no law-abiding tanaversions, but those who buy women, and not least those who facilitate the maintenance of prostitution. To the hallicians and other cynical people who get paid for the accident of others, the message should be: Get out of Tana and Finnmark!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25-2.ana.ud206e77	It is gratifying to have such a broad cross-political commitment to this matter. The four Finnish Prime Minister’s representatives have taken an initiative against the Minister of Justice, relating to the same issue as the inter-pellant. I am very pleased that it seems that all the political parties in the Storting are concerned that something has to be done in this matter. It is important to point to four aspects in particular, such as the ring-effects of Finnmark. Prostitution activities contribute to the disintegration of social and family relations in local settings and characterise the growing conditions of children and young people in these communities with negative ring-effects. This is not a purely Tana phenomenon, you can see it in all counties, also in my own municipality. The organised nature of activities could also have a ring-fenced effect on crime in the county. The incidence of infectious diseases is higher in Russia than in Norway, and prostitution significantly increases the risk of transmission of infectious diseases in the population, especially with relation to sexually transmitted diseases. This will not only be a problem on the Norwegian side, but also a problem on the Russian side, for example. in the case of the presence of chlamydia, which is relatively higher in Norway than in Russia. It is obvious in the interest of both nations to combat the developments that are taking place here. In addition, the objective must be to achieve as much normalised relations as possible between Russia and Norway as part of the development of cooperation in the Barents region and as part of contributing to a positive development for the Russian population. But prostitution contributes to the difficulty of cooperation through a generally growing skepticism in the population of Finland to Russian visitors, especially Russian women. It is therefore very good to focus on what is now happening in Finnmark, and hopefully also get the tools to stop prostitution. I want to add that I think it is good that so many men have engaged in this matter, that it is not made into a purely female question and that there are women who should specifically engage to end prostitution. In this respect, I would also mention that the Ministry of Children and Family initially proposed funds for a research project on prostitution in Finnmark, but that the funds have been withheld. I hope that the Department will look again at the release of these funds, so that such a research project can be started, and that we can look at the underlying causes and what can be done with them.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25-2.ana.ud206e96	It's an interesting and discussed subject by the representative Ludvigsen here, but I'm afraid he's overplaying a little when it comes to the use of words. It has been focused mostly on prostitution, while the smuggling of cigarettes, alcohol and other things has almost come second. Now it should be clear that prostitution is not prohibited in Norway, and you can ask whether prostitution is worse in Finnmark than it is in Oslo, Bergen or, if so, Trondheim. If you want to do something about it, you have to change the law. I agree with the intention of the interpellation, but I believe that in this way we are helping to sword large parts of Finnmark, because the morals of Finnmark cannot be worse than the rest of the country. What makes the relationship in Finnmark a little special is that there are small communities where everyone knows everyone, and everything is transparent. I also believe that the Russians who come to Norway via Storskog are being wronged. They're already criminalized at first. As I understand it, a stricter border crossing regime will be in place in Finnmark than elsewhere in Norway, and I have to ask if it is intended that specific measures should be taken for Finnmark. You don't have to make this case a parody. I see that Rune Gerhardsen is put on this case to clean up. I think he'll get his butt on before he's done with it. If he's going to make it, I think he's got to get up earlier in the morning than what he did in the Municipality of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25-2.ana.ud206e107	I think there has been an interesting debate in the sense that it can be seen that a wide-ranging accumulation supports the measures outlined by the Council of State in its first speech, and that it is a broad wish that prostitution in Finnmark, which has gained an extent that is not equal to where one moves in the Kingdom, must be brought to an end. Let me say that the last post is going to be a little bit strange when you almost make what this case is about to become a parody, and that discussing these things and taking action is going to be synonymous with stigmatizing and accusing Finnmarks in general of participating in this traffic. It is a misunderstanding, and fortunately there is only one member of the Storting who has expressed such a view. Let me also, when I make a visit to individual representatives, say that the only person who has indicated that this interpellation debate was almost unnecessary is the representative Tor Nymo, who had made it clear that I had not followed when I criticized the Government for lack of action. I then record that there was more than the Council of State that was not present, because in my post I actually underlined that I commend the Government for what has been done in the last month. I strongly stressed that the Government has taken some action, and the background that I did not see the need to make proposals was that this is well under way. But it is important that further work should take into account that this is a national issue. This is a question that concerns the whole nation and therefore – like the representative Ballo – I am pleased that so many men have participated in this debate. This is about women's vision, but this is not women's. This is about human dignity and human vision, and I think it is clear in the speeches that have been made today. Let me just finish by saying the following: I think at least there is one positive thing that has emerged in the recent debate, and that is that the youth in Tana and Finnmark youth have strongly stated that this is not going to happen; this is going to end. They stand up against prostitution and show positive attitudes. I think we should be happy about that at Stortinget. When the state council now goes to Finnmark, I hope and expect that he will enter into good dialogue with the youth in these areas that are now suffering from the activity going on up there. I want the Council of State to take a good trip to Finnmark, and I'm sure he'll come back with a greater sense of what's going on there, and that in that way he can get even better action going.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25-2.ana.ud206e118	Governments belong to those who only at a well-adult age became aware of how, in South Norway, the challenges in Finnmark could be distorted and misunderstood. But once I have got the ballast I got through the Alta case and later on a number of other questions, it is there as a filter. What I'm glad about, once we've had the discussion today, is that it shows this breadth and the willingness to look at different causes. I think, among other things, the points made in relation to the health situation are thought-provoking. There are in the extension of the representative Ballos posts around it to observe, as far as I can tell, some Norwegian men who also visit places on the Kola Peninsula. Traffic is not only unilateral from Russia into Norway, but it also goes from Norway into Russia. So in many ways you get to go into it. And I think the answer to Mr. Sjöli's question to me is probably that I'm trying to investigate with my colleague, the Minister for Children and Family, what we can do to go back and look at the causes. I'm not going to try to see, it can easily be wrong to try it. I can also say to the Stortinget that I basically see the debate as having a Norwegian situation where people are willing to mobilise widely without trying to score any cheap points on it, but on the contrary build such a strong alliance that you don't want the effort to go over quickly. So you want to keep a constant pressure. I can also say, as a concrete addition to the debate today, that I have received the first police reports, and they can indicate that good, old-fashioned police work is having an effect. It is often the case that when you concentrate resources, it has the effect, and I think that is the sum of good, old-fashioned police work and the local involvement among young people, such as young people. The representative Ludvigsen pointed to as counting. I'm not going to go into the debate on criminalisation except to say that if you're going to go into single homes and check what kind of relationships are established when someone meets in a home, then I think you can quickly, without concluding on the matter, come to face challenges that go beyond what you're now facing. Now we're going to focus on the broad social mobilization that we agree on, we're going to use the traditional police methods, and we're going to try to drill in the deeper conditions that trigger this. I also stress that the Storting has so strongly stressed that they do not want prostitution to work negatively in terms of the interrelationship developed across borders, and I am also pleased to note that you do not want to stigmatise the relationships that have been created normally, with marriage and with children, so that these children are at risk of suffering from the debate that has arisen. I think that the nuances in the debate have been an inspiration for me to take along as the Council of State, and to the representative Ludvigsen I will say that wherever I travel in Norway, I am learning something new; I will certainly also do so in meeting the Finnland politicians. I've done it before when we discussed transportation, I'm probably going to do it in this area, and the practical aspects of it I'm going to use to continue the basic attitude the representative had in his interpellation, and otherwise what has been expressed in the debate today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25-2.ana.ud206e135	So the debate is on case No. Four o'clock.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25-2.ana.ud206e145	The World Trade Organisation (WTO) is facing a new round of negotiations. With this statement, I want to give the Stortinget an overview of the status of the preparations and the government's view on how we best care for Norwegian interests in the negotiations. The results of the negotiations will have an impact on the framework conditions for significant Norwegian industrial interests. In addition to the commercial interests, the performance of the qualitative aspects of trade, such as health, environment, consumer and district considerations, will be emphasised by the Norwegian side. We will also focus on the situation of developing countries. Let me start the presentation with a brief historical review. The General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade – GATT – entered into force on 1 January 1948. 23 countries were present from the beginning, among them Norway. Through eight rounds of negotiations, world trade has been progressively liberalised and comprehensive binding driving rules have been developed for international trade. The contract agency does not provide for free trade, but trade based on a global regulatory framework that puts all countries, large and small, on an equal footing. The regulatory framework is based on the principles of non-discrimination and transparency. Norway has taken an active part in all the rounds of negotiations. This shows the importance assigned to the multilateral trading system by the Norwegian side – and continues to add – as a central framework for Norwegian foreign trade. For a country such as Norway, with a relatively small and very open economy, the existence of binding legislation on international trade is of great importance. This results, among other things, in: ensuring that Norwegian products are not discriminated against in foreign markets and that the ‘strongest’ right does not prevail. The WTO was established on 1 January 1995 as a result of the so-called Uruguay Round. The round of negotiations — the eighth in the series — started from 1986 to 1993. The WTO as an independent organisation provided the multilateral trading system with a new and permanent structure. The Works of Agreement shall be legally binding on the members. The WTO Agreement includes rules on trade in goods and services and the trade aspects of intellectual property rights, as well as a more effective system for resolving trade disputes between members. The legislation on trade in agricultural products, services and intellectual property rights constituted the most important innovations in relation to GATT legislation. The size of the agreement was agreed in November 1994. The dispute resolution system has proved to be effective. Over the four years the WTO has existed, 168 disputes have been dealt with. Of course, some of them have received more attention than others. This applies, for example: the much-mentioned case of bananas between the EU and the United States, which has also shown that the system can withstand even strong trade policy pressures. The dispute resolution system provides in many ways the guarantee that world trade does not allow for unilateral and arbitrary measures. This makes us have a special interest in supporting the system. Developments have shown that more and more developing countries are using – and seeing themselves served – a strong dispute resolution system. Several decisions have been made in favour of developing countries. In order to enable developing countries to exercise their rights in the best possible way, Norway and some other WTO members have joined forces on the establishment of a dispute resolution advisory centre specifically designed to meet the needs of developing countries. Today, the WTO has 134 members, while 32 countries are still negotiating membership. This applies, inter alia, to: significant trade nations such as China and Russia. The vast majority of WTO members are developing countries. Many of the least developed countries are members or applicants for membership. Now that the organisation has evolved from the 23 original GATT Contracting Parties to the 134 WTO members and 32 candidate countries, the organisation is today almost global, in line with the United Nations system and the Bretton Woods institutions. The government goes in to, among other things, China and Russia should become members of the organisation and the accession negotiations for the candidate countries should be concluded as soon as possible. The Declaration of Adults states that the Government will ‘work to further develop and improve the WTO Agreement in order to make it more social’... ‘environmental policy and health and consumer concerns’. The WTO must take responsibility in its field of action in order to contribute to sustainable development. Norway shall be a driver in this context. Economic development and social welfare must go hand in hand with the protection of the environment and the sustainable use of natural resources. The relationship between the multilateral trading system and the environment has for a long time been discussed in a number of forums and is now on the WTO agenda. It is important to clarify that the design of the specific environmental policy, i.e.: objectives and instruments are set out in the respective international environmental agreements and at national level. The WTO is committed to ensuring that trade and environmental considerations move in the same direction. The WTO has carried out a comprehensive analysis of the relationship between trade and the environment. In mid-March, an international symposium was held on the theme of the WTO. However, this theme is not uncontroversial. Among other things, most developing countries, but also some developed countries, are opposed to changing WTO rules in order to better address environmental concerns. This is due to the fear that the rules will be used for protectionist purposes. It will be essential for environmental considerations to be assessed and integrated in all areas subject to WTO negotiations, whether as regards liberalisation or the development of new legislation. In addition, the Government will work to ensure that the consideration of key environmental principles such as the so-called 'goods' principle and the 'pays' principle is taken into account in the forthcoming negotiations. Furthermore, the Government wants to ensure that the trading system provides the necessary flexibility for environmental decision-makers and predictability for all actors in the use of trade measures in international environmental agreements. Furthermore, it is important that the WTO develops incentives for the production and use of environmentally friendly goods and services. The negotiation of indicative driving rules for voluntary eco-labelling schemes will be an important contribution in this respect. Health and consumer concerns are primarily addressed through the development of internationally recognised standards for products, production methods and provision of services. The multilateral trading system relies to a large extent on the use of such standards by its members, but does not itself support their development. Countries may also, under certain conditions, use legislation providing a higher level of protection than that achieved by measures based on international standards. The Government considers active Norwegian participation in the various international standardisation bodies to be important in order to ensure health, environmental and consumer protection. In the Adult Declaration, the Government has also stated that in the further development of the WTO Agreement, it will be essential to meet the specific needs of the poor developing countries. Although a number of developing countries have experienced a strong increase in wealth over the last 15 years, the gap in wealth between developed countries and many developing countries, especially as the least developed, is increasing. The needs of these countries within the trading system will be an important clue in the choice of Norwegian positions. Possible measures could be improved market access for export products from developing countries, effective and coordinated technical assistance aimed at resource development and capacity building, assistance to ensure developing countries' ability to make use of the dispute resolution system and positive discrimination between developing countries, especially when the least developed, in the multilateral trading system. From the Norwegian side, we attach considerable importance to enabling the poorest countries to participate in the work being done within the WTO. The multilateral trading system also faces other challenges. Globalisation is characterised by the increasing and increasing speed of capital, goods and services crossing borders. Trade over electronic networks, such as the Internet, is one visible example of these developments. The multilateral trading system must meet the challenges posed by this development. The proximity of globalisation has also led to increased vulnerability. The financial crisis in Asia has had rapid ring-fences in other parts of the world through the global capital and currency markets. The development of a comprehensive network of regional trade agreements is another major challenge. We must ensure that the development of regional trade agreements – whether it be customs union or free trade agreement – takes place in a way that builds up and does not conflict with the multilateral trading system. In order to discuss how we can improve the political governance of the globalisation process and prevent further marginalisation of developing countries, the Prime Minister has taken the initiative of a high-level meeting on globalisation. This will take place in Oslo at the beginning of July of this year and will bring together leading politicians from selected countries, in addition to leaders of international organisations and financial institutions and central representatives of international business. The new WTO round of negotiations will begin at the end of the year. Formal decision on the mandate for the negotiations will be taken at the WTO Third Ministerial Conference in Seattle on 30 November to 3 December this year. The preparations for the forthcoming negotiations have begun in Geneva. No themes are initially excluded. The Marrakesh Agreement establishing the WTO obliges us to continue negotiations on agriculture, services and certain aspects of trade-related intellectual property rights. This is the WTO's so-called integrated agenda. In addition, the WTO discusses which additional negotiating themes should be included in the negotiations. The most relevant areas of negotiation appear to be market access for industrial products, multilateral rules on public procurement, common rules on electronic commerce, multilateral competition policy discipline, trade and environment, trade and investment, as well as various adjustments to the existing legislation. Members' views on the extent to which negotiations are to be adopted and the various negotiating themes are broken. Many developing countries are sceptical about a negotiating agenda that goes beyond the built-in agenda and about adjusting existing rules. In particular, LDCs argue that they have enough problems to implement the results after the Uruguay Round. They indicate that an adjustment to the existing legislation is necessary to restore balance and allow developing countries to benefit fully from the multilateral trading system. However, developing countries are not a single group either, and the interests associated with the forthcoming negotiations are thus also very important among these countries. The OECD countries are in favour of a so-called broad agenda for the forthcoming negotiations, although the emphasis on the various sectors varies slightly from country to country. The government launched last year a broad-based monitoring of Norwegian interests in connection with the forthcoming negotiations. The survey, in the form of a review of the individual areas concerned, took place in inter-ministerial working groups with representatives from the departments concerned and was chaired by a State Secretary Group. The results of the survey are set out in a report made publicly available, including: is posted on the Internet. Monitoring has kept in touch with the social partners and other relevant organisations. Their input has made important and useful contributions to the process. Let me say a few words about the individual areas of negotiation. I begin with the areas on which we are obliged to negotiate: The agricultural sector was integrated in the Uruguay Round into the international trade legislation in the form of a separate agricultural agreement. Article 20 of this Agreement refers, on the one hand, to the long-term objective of achieving significant, gradual reductions in aid and protection measures. On the other hand, the article states that further negotiations will also take into account, inter alia: experience gained with the implementation of the existing agreement and so-called non-commercial relations. This includes, inter alia: food safety and the need to protect the environment. The long-term objective is not required to be achieved by the forthcoming round of negotiations. Neither shall any specific obligations be imposed on the parties with regard to the outcome of the negotiations or when the negotiations are to be concluded. Nevertheless, the parties must be expected to have to go beyond the existing obligations. In the preparation process in Geneva, Norway has shown in particular that agriculture has functions in addition to producing food. Through active participation, we have focused on elucidating the multifunctional nature of agriculture, as a provider of collective goods related to district housing, food preparedness, living settlements and environmental quality such as biodiversity, living cultural landscapes and good health for people, animals and plants. Japan, Korea, Switzerland, Iceland and the EU also place great emphasis on the multifunctional role of agriculture. This active line from the Government is a continuation of the priorities of the Harlem Brundtland government in the previous round of negotiations. In the mid-term review of the Uruguay Round in 1989, Norway stated in an explanatory statement: ‘As far as the long-term part is concerned, we in Norway must again underline the importance we attach to the non-commercial or non-economic factors. These are important elements of our agricultural policy and include not only food security but also elements such as the environment, district policy and social considerations. In the wider context, they are of vital importance to us." The United States and other agricultural exporting countries such as Australia, New Zealand, Brazil, Argentina, Canada and South Africa expect this round to lead to significant liberalisation of agricultural trade. In addition, a number of developing countries want increased market access for their agricultural products. This will make agricultural negotiations difficult. The Government will actively promote the conclusion of the next round of negotiations in an agricultural agreement, which will continue to provide national action spaces for the formulation of agricultural policy, with the means deemed necessary to achieve the objectives of continued active agricultural production. The Uruguay Round led to a framework agreement for trade in and investment in services, based on the principle of non-discrimination. The agreement included commitments in individual areas relating to market access and national treatment. The main real result was that members committed themselves not to make their legislation more restrictive. Sectoral negotiations on real liberalisation, namely the movement of persons, trade in financial services and trade in basic telecommunications services, have subsequently been carried out. Sectoral negotiations also took place on trade in shipping services following the Uruguay Round. These did not give the desired results. The obligations on shipping under the service agreement are therefore quite modest, despite the fact that virtually all countries are pursuing a liberal policy on international shipping. Resistance from the American side to commitment is probably the main cause of this outcome. It will therefore be an important objective in the new negotiations that as many Member States as possible take on commitments as far as possible. The service agreement requires that negotiations be reopened on a broad basis from the coming turn of the year. Surveying has shown offensive Norwegian interests in a number of service sectors, including in particular shipping services and related offshore services, telecommunications services and IT-related services, as well as environmental services. Norway also has a broader interest in providing an equal level of competition for Norwegian service providers to non-residents in Norway. The Government considers that it is best able to achieve Norwegian objectives of further liberalisation of services if negotiations are conducted on the broadest possible basis. The government is therefore in favour of no service sector being initially excluded from the negotiations. The intellectual property agreement – TRIPS – was negotiated during the Uruguay Round and represented a new area of the multilateral trading system. It establishes a global minimum level of protection for most types of intellectual property rights, such as: copyright, trademarks, geographical sales denominations and patents. The industrialised countries have been applying the agreements since 1996. To date, the agreement has had only limited effect, with a number of countries, including the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. countries with transition economies and developing countries have transitional arrangements up to 2000 and 2005/2006 respectively. The TRIPS Agreement presupposes the opening of negotiations at the end of the year relating to geographical sales denominations, the parties' access to the prohibition of patents on biotechnological inventions and the extension of access to dispute resolution. The preparation for the forthcoming negotiations also assesses whether further areas should be covered during the TRIPS negotiations. The government sees it as a priority objective to actively pursue the widest possible implementation of the WTO Agreement at this point. Patenting of biotechnological inventions is a controversial area in which interests burst among WTO members. From the Norwegian side, an overall assessment suggests that we go in to maintain the status quo, i.e. maintaining access to exemption from patenting for animals, plants and their manufacturing procedures. This is also an important requirement on the part of developing countries. These countries also emphasise the need for flexibility in plant variety protection under TRIPS, which Norway supports. Customs negotiations on the liberalisation of trade in industrial products have been the main component of previous GATT rounds. Unlike the agricultural, service and TRIPS areas, there is no formal obligation to enter into market access negotiations. However, no WTO member has so far opposed the implementation of such negotiations. It therefore appears likely that such negotiations will start from the turn of the year. Norway has over time reduced customs duties on trade in goods unilaterally or as a result of bilateral, regional or multilateral agreements. A further reduction in customs duties will therefore have a relatively small impact on the competitive situation of Norwegian companies on the Norwegian market. On the other hand, tariff escalation under the multilateral trading system would be of particular interest in respect of markets outside Europe and in relation to certain product groups where Norwegian exports encounter customs barriers in most markets. Fish, fish products and textiles occupy a special position in this respect. Fish and fish products are subject to a number of trade restrictions in very many countries. This industry will, on the Norwegian side, be at the centre of the design of positions for WTO negotiations. A trend towards reduced customs barriers will be important to give Norwegian industry good framework conditions on international markets. This could in turn contribute to value creation in Norway, secure existing Norwegian jobs and create new ones. However, in addition to customs negotiations, it will be important to look at the non-tariff barriers to trade in goods. In this context, work on simplification of border controls and other trade-related procedures will also be important. In order to ensure a balanced outcome, the Government has taken steps in preparing the mandate to ensure that customs negotiations initially cover all types of industrial products. In recent years, electronic commerce has had explosive developments and will revolutionise traditional trade and business operations in many ways. These developments can give Norwegian companies considerable new opportunities to compete, as the use of electronic networks, such as the Internet, is high in Norwegian business. The Government assumes that trade in electronic networks must be subject to common and non-discriminatory rules in the WTO. Extensive monitoring work is currently under way in the WTO to assess whether electronic network trade is covered by existing rules or whether new provisions are required to be developed. From the Norwegian side, we actively participate in this work. Further development of the regulatory framework for public procurement of goods and services is on the agenda of the WTO. The existing WTO Agreement on Government Procurement has only a limited number of members and is not binding on all WTO members. Developing countries are generally more sceptical than other members to develop common and binding legislation in this area. The WTO is now identifying the possibility of a new public acquisition transparency agreement that will oblige all WTO member countries. The international public acquisition markets are significant and constitute approximately 15 pst. global GDP. Norwegian business has proven to be competitive internationally, inter alia: in the case of consultancy services, technical planning, hydropower development and information technology. At the same time, the Norwegian public procurement regimes are open as a result of the EEA Agreement. The further opening up of public procurement markets within the multilateral trading system is for the benefit of Norwegian industry. Moreover, greater transparency about public acquisitions could contribute to a reduction in corruption and to an increase in efficiency, which could result in significant socio-economic savings. The Government is therefore in favour of the forthcoming negotiations also contributing to the strengthening of WTO legislation in this area through binding multilateral solutions. At the same time, the development of any multilateral legislation needs to focus on environmental considerations and the specific needs of developing countries. The Government wants the forthcoming negotiations to include the development of multilateral framework conditions in the field of competition policy. Here we have a clear Norwegian interest. This is particularly true in those sectors in which Norway competes with industry in a country without a well-developed competitive regime, for example: in the case of fertilisers and chemicals, it would be in the Norwegian interest for these countries to establish clearer national competition rules in order to ensure the proper functioning of markets. A WTO framework in the field of competition could eventually lead to business working on more equivalent assumptions in international markets. It is our aim that this can help to make it less topical for other countries to use anti-dumping measures to protect themselves from what they consider to be unfair competition. Norway has a long tradition as an active champion of human rights, including basic labour standards. Norway is actively participating in the ILO and has ratified all central conventions on labour standards. Labour standards are also central to bilateral and multilateral assistance cooperation. The WTO concluded at the Singapore Ministerial Conference in 1996 that the ILO is the right forum for the establishment and management of basic labour standards. In recent years Norway has sought to promote dialogue in the WTO on basic labour standards. It has been intended to understand that the trade regimes of WTO members need to be based more on the consideration of precisely such fundamental rights. Norway has cases of opinion in this area, for example: USA, Denmark, Sweden, Belgium and France. The attempt to initiate a WTO dialogue on labour standards has been met with considerable resistance. All developing countries and the vast majority of industrialised countries are opposed to the development of basic labour standards legislation in the WTO. It is shown, among others: that the WTO is a rule-based system of trade sanctions such as so-called rice behind the rear-view mirror and that trade sanctions are not the way to promote fundamental employee rights. Developing countries are afraid that a code of work standards will constitute a hidden form of protectionism in which some WTO members will seek to bring about the comparative advantage of many developing countries in the form of cheap labour. The government, like the government of Jagland, will continue its efforts to seek to set basic work standards on the WTO agenda. In this context, the Government will maintain close contact with the social partners and other like-minded countries. The government has also welcomed and supported the work of the LO on professional rights in developing countries. Trade and investment are linked. Today, the international investment flows are regulated by approx. 1 800 bilateral agreements, and there is no multilateral agreement in this area. The multilateral trading system already contains provisions relevant to investment. However, the WTO does not include a complete set of investment legislation. A comprehensive analysis was launched in 1996 under the auspices of the WTO to clarify the link between investment and trade. The analysis will provide the basis for the members' assessment of the need for a multilateral investment regime in the WTO. Following the failure of the OECD negotiations on a multilateral investment agreement, the so-called MAI negotiations, attention is more focused on the WTO as a possible forum for negotiating such an agreement. However, WTO members are divided in the view of the desirability of multilateral rules. Several developing countries, mainly countries such as India, Pakistan and Egypt, are skeptical — some even completely reprehensible — about the development of such rules. Other developing countries, such as Mexico, Brazil, Costa Rica and South Africa, are positive in the development of multilateral investment rules within the WTO. The OECD countries are divided in the view of which forum such negotiations should possibly be held. Experience from the MAI negotiations and the considerable scepticism of a number of developing countries has shown, as well as the complexity of reaching a high-standard agreement that takes account of industrial policy considerations while taking sufficient account of the environment, health, labour standards and the needs of the poor developing countries, will need to be given importance. Therefore, the Government will not actively participate in investments as its own negotiating theme. If a multilateral investment agreement is to be applied in the WTO, the above considerations must be adequately addressed. Other areas may also arise as current negotiating issues. This includes issues such as rules on the simplification of trade procedures, anti-dumping, dispute resolution, technical barriers to trade, subsidies, rules of origin and the relationship between regional trade agreements and the multilateral trading system. Norwegian interests in these legislative areas will be evaluated on an ongoing basis. The preservation of comprehensive Norwegian interests and the promotion of qualitative aspects of trade are the basis for the Government to now agree on the basis of its monitoring work in order for the WTO to launch a broad round of negotiations based on the decision of the outcome of the negotiations as an overall negotiating package. This is a position that is in line with the other OECD countries, and some central developing countries, have adopted. It is also considered by the Government that a broad round will provide the best guarantee that the trading system keeps pace with the development of world trade, while at the same time providing an opportunity to achieve an outcome that balances the interests of developing and industrialised countries. The breadth and extent of Norwegian interests could lead to difficult challenges and balances. This applies, inter alia, to: the desire to safeguard Norwegian agricultural interests and the desire to optimise conditions for better market access for products from developing countries. We are also faced with difficult challenges related to ensuring the qualitative aspects of trade and the discussion of labour standards in the multilateral trading system. These are issues that we will face in the negotiations, which could involve important adjustments at a later stage in the process. The preparations in Geneva are now in their second phase. This goes from February this year until the end of July. At this stage, the aim is for the members to make concrete proposals on the elements they think should be included in the mandate for the negotiations to be adopted at the Seattle Ministerial Conference. The proposals shall cover both the substance of the issues which the members consider should be included in the negotiations and how these issues should be addressed. At the same time, it is assumed that Members will make proposals on how to organise the negotiations. A number of proposals have so far been made on the substance. It would go too far to address them in this statement, but it could be suggested that most of the topics I have mentioned will probably be included in the negotiations. However, the Government is continuously considering the proposals made. To date, proposals relating to trade and the environment and a paper on market access have been submitted by the Norwegian side. The Government is also considering making its own proposals relating, inter alia, to: agriculture and services. The concrete proposals are publicly available, including: on the Internet, and is in line with the views I expressed above. In my opinion, we are on track from the Norwegian side in this preparation process. The issue of the organisation of the forthcoming negotiations has not been formally dealt with so far, but will be on the WTO agenda in June and July. However, the government notes that there appears to be an increasing rise in membership that the forthcoming round should not last much longer than three to four years. This position is supported by the Government. In the preparation process, the government attaches considerable importance to maintaining close contact with the member countries with which we share common interests. In this context, active participation in relevant informal forums, where WTO decisions are often preceded, is of central importance. Phase III of preparation will start in September and will proceed to the Ministerial Conference at the end of November. During this final phase of preparation, an attempt will be made to reach an agreement on the mandate for the negotiations as part of the Seattle Ministerial Declaration. However, it cannot be excluded that WTO members will seek concrete results in individual areas during the period leading up to the Ministerial Conference. China's membership, product expansion under the Information Technology Agreement and revision of the dispute resolution agreement are some possible issues. The economic combination of Pacific countries has also been initiated to try and get zero duty imposed on some product categories. Let me mention here that it is the Government's hope that the ongoing debate on the WTO Director-General issue will have no influence on the preparations for the Seattle Ministerial Conference. The Government will also return to the Storting regarding the outcome of the negotiations on the mandate and the arrangements for the future negotiations. For Norway — as a small country with a relatively small and open economy — the existence of binding legislation on international trade is of great importance. The government's objective in the forthcoming negotiations is both to seek to facilitate growth and value creation in Norwegian business and to further develop a trading system that takes into account the situation of developing countries as well as qualitative aspects of trade related to environmental, health, consumer and district considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25-2.ana.ud206e289	The President will propose that the Foreign Minister’s statement on the forthcoming WTO negotiations be discussed at a later meeting – and considered adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25-2.ana.ud206e301	The present case concerns three Nordic institutions, all three of which are also involved in financing projects outside the Nordic region. It is the increased international activity of the Nordic Investment Bank, the Nordic Environment Fund and the Nordic Development Fund respectively that has created the need for action to strengthen the international position of the institutions. The new agreements concluded subject to the approval of the Storting will give the Nordic institutions status, immunities and privileges in line with other multinational institutions, such as: The IMF, the World Bank and the European Investment Bank, the EIB, and the European Development Bank, the EBRD. The new agreements regulate the position of Nordic banks in relation to lenders and borrowers and to the authorities of the Nordic countries and national legislation. A host country agreement is also concluded between these institutions and Finland, where all three institutions have their principal seat. The Nordic Council Bureau has joined the proposals on behalf of the Nordic Council and a unanimous committee has done the same. I would recommend the unanimous setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25-2.ana.ud206e312	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3386]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25-2.ana.ud206e326	The paper deals with the annual report of the UN General Assembly against a gloomy backdrop. Both the war, the ethnic cleansing and the refugee disaster in Yugoslavia put the World Organization to the test. Bloody regional conflicts and civil wars in several parts of the world are probably the biggest challenge for the UN for many, many years to come. According to the Minister of Development's statement on humanitarian aid in January of this year, 96 out of 101 violent conflicts have taken place in the last six years within the territory of each country or within regions where the conflict lines do not necessarily follow borders. The UN Pact was based in due course on the principle of dealing with conflicts between countries. But neither the UN Charter nor the UN organisation must prevent international society from intervening in internal conflicts, human rights violations, humanitarian disasters or major economic and social problems. The ability of the UN to prevent violent conflicts, react rapidly to crisis situations and work for economic and social development needs to be strengthened. The provisions of the United Nations Charter on threats to or breaches of international peace and security provide room for action in relation to human rights violations, crimes against humanity, etc. The further reform process in the UN will need to include a debate on organisation, decision-making processes, mandates and instruments – and on the role of the UN in relation to humanitarian interventions and peacekeeping forces. The Committee asked both last year and last year for an update of the reform process in the Communications on the UN General Assembly. This has been followed up by the Government in an informative way. What is worrying throughout the United Nations system is a growing difference in attitudes between countries and between countries and developing countries, and perhaps the legitimate fears of the developing countries that rationalisation and red tape also lead to lower transfers to the World Organisation and therefore also lower transfers from north to south. It is important, in my view, that Norway contributes to maintaining a constructive dialogue with developing countries in order to ensure the continuation of the necessary reform work in the UN. Not surprisingly, the financial crisis in Asia, the problem of globalisation and regional conflicts were among the most frequent issues in the debates of the 53rd UN General Assembly, which of course was also marked by the 50th anniversary of the Declaration of Human Rights. Nevertheless, there were perhaps nuclear questions and nuclear disarmament that marked much of the work around the general meeting in corridors and in the spaces around. From the Norwegian side, the Norwegian Peace Council was with them as observers. Most of the time it was around the so-called New Agenda Coalition initiative, which contained a number of proposals on nuclear disarmament, among others. progress in the Start III negotiations and the launch of a process to remove all nuclear weapons and an appeal for further signature of the non-proliferation agreement. Norway abstained from voting in favour of the resolution but supported the objectives underlying it. Norway voted in favour — even took the initiative — of several other resolutions relating to the proliferation of nuclear weapons and fissile materials. A few other things related to the United Nations system: if we take the system of so-called UN resident coordinator, it seems to me that this system is striving to find a form, but still it seems that it strengthens the role of UNDP in the world organization. Norway is channelling some good projects through the Development Fund through the Multi-Bissystem – a system that can also be strengthened as a form of assistance. UNDP also has an important responsibility for strengthening and continuing global women's networks and women's participation in democratic processes, as some of us saw it both in Laos and in Vietnam last autumn. Moreover, with regard to women's health, human rights for women and traditions that are harmful or repressive to women, much remains to be done, and there is a lot of work that the UN can address in this field. So finally, for the sake of order: the announcement of the cancellation gives a good summary of the UN General Assembly, and the Committee joins in the Government's assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25-2.ana.ud206e354	The UN has a unique position and role through its objectives and instruments. When we read the UN message, we see that there is no simple task done by the United Nations. Regional and ethnic conflicts flourish, while economic and social conditions play a major role in the development of countries and citizens' rights. Human rights and the environment are important issues that need to be addressed further. In order for the UN to meet the challenges required in these areas, all countries must recognise that the UN is the tool we need to support, not only by sharing our experience, but also by financing the various operations and activities of the United Nations. The Declaration of Human Rights was 50 years ago, and the anniversary was a highlight of the UN General Assembly last year. The Christian People's Party still sees a strong need to continue working to focus on the issues this declaration raises. It is important that we recognise that human rights are not just civil and political rights. It is also necessary to focus on the equal role of economic, social and cultural rights in relation to human rights. Greater priority will be given to UN work on human rights. A statement on human rights defenders was adopted last year. Norwegian support was also expressed for developing countries that will develop national action plans for human rights. International cooperation has shown that the contradictions between the north and the south are reflected in the discussions on globalisation and how institutional arrangements and benefits are to be organised. The division of roles between the UN and Bretton Woods institutions has not been easy, and the discussion has also focused on how to achieve greater flexibility in the regime for poor countries with a high debt burden, the so-called HIPC regime, and on debt conversion measures for the poorest African countries. Once again it turns out that the transition to a new millennium is helping to create movements in this area. More and more countries see the need for a new start for countries in the south, and more and more countries are therefore working to reduce their debt burden. Our government is also active in this context. It shows the launch of the debt plan. At the same time, the Government is also working to find a flexible HIPC scheme. Mr Kofi Annan's Africa report also aroused great interest. It was the subject of open debate in the Security Council last year. I think it is worth noting his challenges in terms of conflict prevention and peace-building and accountability of African leaders towards democratisation, human rights and good governance. He stressed that understanding the current conflicts, necessary resources and political will within and outside Africa are crucial prerequisites for success, and that all conflicts are the result of human action, and that mobilizing the necessary will to prevent conflict constitutes a moral imperative. Rwanda is one of the countries where the situation is still tense. The UN presence has now been reduced to a political office, but the war crime gang of Rwanda reported in 1998 for the first time in the history of justice a sentence for genocide. The capacity of the Court of Justice has now expanded, including: is a Norwegian judge elected to the Court of Justice. The opposition between Ethiopia and Eritrea has intensified and the Security Council has adopted a resolution supporting the role of the OAU in finding a political solution. Unfortunately, there are still large-scale fighting operations in the area. The last UN General Assembly shows that this is a forum on how important issues are put on the agenda and addressed. We need guidelines to work after, while there is a need for solidarity and social rights to go beyond the national borders of each country. While it is important to reduce the gap between north and south, it is also important to understand the role and responsibilities of each actor in this context. In this work, it is important that our government emphasises strongly and prioritises cooperation with other governments, civil society and non-governmental organisations. And last but not least, it is important that the UN is the multilateral organisation that is naturally the subject of our multilateral efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25-2.ana.ud206e369	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3386]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25-2.ana.ud206e377	The cancellation goes to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25-2.ana.ud206e383	The President will propose that the Minister of Health's statement on public health be annexed to the minutes of the Storting meeting on 10 May 1999. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25-2.ana.ud206e402	During the debate, Mr Myrvoll has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The project rv 580 Midttune — Hop is being reviewed economically and is being revised for the environment’.» The Socialist Left Party's proposal and then the vote will be voted on first.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25-2.ana.ud206e746	Under II, there will be a point-by-point vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25-2.ana.ud206e764	The President assumes that the Progress Party and the Right will vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25-2.ana.ud206e781	The President assumes that the Socialist Left will vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25-2.ana.ud206e808	The President assumes that the Socialist Left will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25-2.ana.ud206e816	Case No. Case No. 4 and Case No. No voting theme is available.
