ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e24	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 4053]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e38	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 4053]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e52	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 25 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Work Party 30 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose to allow the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e63	One of the issues that has been the problem of dealing with this matter is that from the moment the Government made its proposal to Stortinget, it has insisted that it was only if the case was adopted as it was submitted that it would be approved by the EEA Control Body ESA. In other words, the government gave the Stortinget an ultimatum to either accept this as proposed, or St. pp. No 52 for 1998-99 fall due to the EEA Agreement. In my opinion, it is alarming that a government uses the EEA Agreement as a threat to industrial development. To the issue of the EEA Agreement, I would like to say that all parties in the Committee, with the exception of the Centre Party, are of the opinion that the EEA Agreement is a legislative instrument designed to ensure equivalent conditions of competition. Under this legislation it is possible to establish industrial power allocation systems which take account of different circumstances and which can ensure the necessary long-termity and predictability for industry. The ultimatum of the Council of State has made the matter difficult to deal with. St. Prop. No 52 have changed in some important areas — to the better for industry, after Stortingen’s treatment. These changes are supported by the Government Parties. It implies that these changes are within the government’s assessment of sustainability vis-à-vis the EEA. I'm going to come back to the changes. The Committee considered for a long time whether the case should be returned to the Government for the purpose of obtaining another order allowing for major changes to the terms and conditions. On the part of the Workers' Party, we believe that the scheme could have been set up in another way and that the conditions offered to the industry could have been designed in another way, which could give greater competitiveness and predictability. The government waited a long time to get the matter presented to Stortinget. At the same time, the Committee received clear feedback from the companies that there was an urgent need to clarify future conditions and that they wanted to have the matter dealt with now. Therefore, the Committee decided to examine the matter expeditiously. It became early clear that there was a majority in the Committee that did not want to make any specific improvements to the proposal. From the Labour Party's side, we chose instead of launching an alternative scheme we wouldn't in any way get a majority to try to change some of the conditions for the better. I believe we have achieved that. The most important relationship in such contracts is, of course, the price. At an early stage, it was clarified that the Workers' Party would not have a majority to make changes at the outset proposed by the Government. On the part of the Workers' Party, we wanted to place more emphasis on the special nature of such long-term agreements and the possibility of a reduction in price in the light of the return of industrial enterprises. We didn't get a majority for that. Anyway, I would like to mention that the price, as suggested in St. pp. No 52, at 15.5 øre, can compete in the market today, and the price of the so-called 104 contracts is currently over 16 øre. Based on the interest in joining the 104 scheme, the price cannot be very far from what companies can live with. The most valuable thing in this system is that we decide what are the conditions for 20 years. It gives a good long-term, and at least we set a maximum of costs. There are a majority in the Committee to make some changes that make it part of St. pp. No 52, more interesting for the companies. One of the most negative things about the Government's arrangement is that it is the conversion of the powerful industry to rely on pure market conditions that are the objective. The government supplies St. pp. No 52 a system that provides for the conversion of the enterprises and communities where they are located. The government is proposing a scheme in which the share of power offered to enterprises in this type of contract is reduced from the tenth year onwards. The government proposed a severe reduction in the power volume, by 6 pst. per 1 % years where the holdings would end up at 40 pst. by the starting point. We believe this by the Labour Party is an unreasonably severe dwindling, which will increase uncertainty in an electricity price market where there is already a great deal of uncertainty about the future. The working party proposed to change the phasing-out of the allocated power, leaving the companies at the end of the contract with 50 pst. by the starting point, and not 40 pst., as proposed by the Government. This is the majority for. This is a significant improvement – it gives enterprises a total increase in power and it increases predictability over a longer period of time. Furthermore, the companies were very sceptical about the Government's proposal to regulate the consumer price index alone. This was strongly countered by industry, as it would create considerable uncertainty as to the price evolution of these contracts. Here, the Workers' Party achieved an element that also takes account of developments in the wholesale price index. This is also a clear improvement on the Government's proposed scheme. We have also wanted from the Labour Party to include two new companies in the scheme in addition to what the Government proposed: Becromal at Notodden and Hunsfos Fabriker in Vennesla. In the case of Becromal, it is worth mentioning that this company was incorporated into the so-called 104 regime of the Workers' Party Government. Now the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left chose to take the business out again. I am pleased that we get a majority in order that the company will once again have the long-term and predictability offered in St. pp. No 52. In the case of Hunsfos factories, it is worth noting that from the Central Party – the Council of State Party – there was no reason in the proposition to introduce this enterprise, despite the fact that a number of central party people here in Stortinget have spoken hotly to get the southern companies involved. The centre party is in favour of unfair discrimination. The Workers' Party proposed to offer Hunsfos the same terms and conditions as others by joining St. pp. No 52. That's the good reason for that. It's left to see if it gets a majority. The most difficult question has been the question of rental agreements in Saudi Arabia, Svelgen and Odda. The time doesn't allow to go into detail about the fall-back scheme, but I have to say a few words. In the case of Tysso II and Svelgen II, the Workers' Party supports the conclusion of a lease, since it is the first case of a fall-back. There are also those users of the power that are given a new lease. When it's Sauda, on the other hand, we see that this is a second case. It will break completely with what has been the policy throughout the post-war period, to offer another period in which Elkem is renting the power plant. It is also such that Elkem no longer owns the melting plant in Sauda, and then we see no reason for Elkem and not Statkraft to deliver the power to this company as to all other companies. Yes, I want to say it so strongly that what we are now witnessing is that there is a central government council that is now opening up for the state to abandon control of the hydropower resources. In this connection, I would like to quote from a letter from the central government council Arnstad last year sent to the committee, which says: ‘A retirement scheme that goes over so many years and that is exposed to the second time the fall-back approach approaches does not have a practical impact on the control of private ownership of power resources.’ So, one year ago, the Council of State thought that letting Elkem get a lease in the Saude Falls for the second time is the same as the state stating control over hydropower. You have to ask yourself, what has happened in the meantime? As far as I can see, the only thing that has happened is that Elkem sells the melting plant in Sauda to a French company, and that the centre party turns – turns on such a fundamental question as the question of the fall-back system. It's no longer a surprise that the government parties are going with seven miles away from their previous positions. Even though memory is short, we remember the beautiful words spoken at the time of the formation of the government at the Grownåsen about the future conditions of this industry. I have previously quoted the Arnstad State Council, which last year warned against doing what the government parties are now doing with the fall-back regime. I also want to mention what the Christian People's Party and the Center Party thought about this issue when the Stortinget dealt with the reorganisation of State Power. Then both the Christian People's Party and the Center Party meant – I quote from the setting at the time: a fall-back is ‘a prerequisite for ensuring national control of the power resources’. Not only is what is happening, contrary to the intention of the fall-back regime, it will also lead to a weakening of the position of State power. For the Workers' Party, it is important to hold Statkraft as a large, powerful Norwegian power company. The working party is not very satisfied with what we've achieved, but it's like not having a majority in the Storting. The fact that the bourgeois parties come together and want this industry into the violence of the market should not really surprise anyone. We who believe that this industry, like the support bar it is for the development of Industry-Norway, must have good conditions, comfort us in adopting a framework for the next 20 years in which the conditions are fixed and clarified. Then it's up to future growth to decide whether there's still going to be a political discussion of these issues in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e129	High interest and tension have long been linked to the principles and price levels of the State Power Contracts to the power-intensive industry. We have been told by the industry what framework conditions must be in this sector. Large parts of the powerful industry regret that there is currently no greater competition on the supply side of the power market, which will be an important prerequisite for the industry as a whole to enter into commercial power agreements with power suppliers. Only individual industrial companies with a particularly favourable power portfolio in the form of self-sufficiency today have the prerequisites to succeed in this. That is why, in the Progress Party, we will work to ensure that the industry's framework conditions are as general and uniform as possible for all actors. A functioning power market also requires competition on the supply side, so that buyers have many sellers to negotiate with. The Progress Party believes that the Government must urgently organise the exploitation of Norwegian water and gas power resources, so that the industry can be more involved in power development and increased ownership of power generation, among others. ensuring flexibility on the supply side, which will serve the industry. The government's approach to the new industrial power regime is very regular, lacks flexibility, and is inadequate to meet such a challenge, while not addressing other important conditions in order to succeed in achieving competitive power conditions in the future. The pricing proposal is based on a price level of 15.5 ø/kWh, where the system services are embedded. The average spot price for the period 1991-98 has been 13.3 ø/kWh and the forward market for 2004 is 13-14 ø/kWh. Today, ten years of contracts are offered to approximately 15.5 ø/kWh without the buyer having to undertake to provide system services. International industrial power contracts have a falling real price and marginal coal and gas prices are 11-13 øre/kWh. In other words, the price of power offered by the industry in this agreement is a higher price than that currently in the market. For us in the Progress Party, it is clearly an objective to pursue a policy that brings together more power producers and sellers on the track. Norwegian Hydro and Norwegian Forest have negotiated long-term supply agreements with Statkraft, and Elkem has negotiated similar agreements with Vattenfall. Norsk Hydro, Norske Skog and Elkem believe that negotiations have given them better conditions than they would have had in a future industrial power regime. As a result, there is no longer the same need for politically determined power prices. The economic reason why the public should be the owner of power companies was that this would prevent private ideas, regional monopoly companies from exploiting their monopoly power to charge excessive prices for electricity. Deregulation of the power market in Norway means that power companies no longer have monopoly power. The main reason why power companies should be publicly owned is no longer present. I do not see a single reasonable reason why the State should still be the owner of State power, and that municipalities and county municipalities should to the extent be the owners of regional power companies. In particular, it is unfortunate that the ownership role in State power is exercised by the Ministry of Energy, which at the same time has the regulatory role in the power market. I am sorry that this proposition is being dealt with before dealing with the energy message. In the view of the Progress Party, the order should have been reversed, so that the Storting can say something about and do something about the lack of electricity in Norway. Finally, I find it regrettable that the Government has not clarified the principles for the allocation of power in advance and whether this is in line with the EEA Agreement. In our view, the government should have explained in advance the principles for the allocation of power with ESA before the matter was brought before the Stortinget. Finally, I take up the proposals of the Progress Party and the proposals of the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e150	Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e153	Access to reasonable and clean energy has been a significant contribution for many decades to the establishment and maintenance of industry and societies in many districts throughout the country. This is an important background for the new power regime proposed by the Government, which is now largely endorsed by the Grand Duchy. The Christian People's Party is pleased with the arrangement that takes into account the principle of equality, conditions of need and a desire to link power resources and local value creation. The proposed approach is also an important contribution to a long-term transition to a future market organisation framework. Enterprises and communities are given this opportunity to build up their skills and implement the necessary conversion measures. The State power contracts under so-called large-scale conditions for parts of the power-intensive industry and the woodworking industry expire in the years 2004 to 2011. There is therefore a need for clarification for this industry and the communities covered by the agreements so that long-term planning can be carried out locally. New industrial contracts under authority must be incorporated into the EEA Agreement and a comprehensive energy policy. For the sake of debate, it is important to point out that a large proportion of the power-intensive industry and the woodworking industry already have competitive power agreements on commercial terms in the market. The Government's proposals are largely endorsed by a majority in the Grand Duchy. Some adjustments have been made, including: with the accession of the Christian People's Party and the Centre Party, in respect of the phasing-out plan, indexation and scope. The cut-off from 2011 and out of the contract term will be 5 pst. per 1 % year instead of 6 pst. per year, as originally proposed. Thus, the power recovery at the end of the contracts becomes 50 pst. by the starting point, and not 40 pst. This is a slight change that will lead to greater predictability over a longer period. The price is initially proposed at 15,50 ø/kWh for the power contracts to be awarded to 16 enterprises, as proposed by the Government. These contracts shall be valid for a period of 20 years from 1 January 2001. The price of the leases in the Saudavassläget, Tyssovassläget and Bremenger is proposed at 15.75 øre/kWh. The leases shall be subject to a period of 30 years calculated from 1 January 2001. As a result of the index adjustment compared to the Government’s proposal, these prices have to be set up. But it's not about significant changes. As regards the adjustment to the indexation of the price, the Centre Parties support the proposal that the Ministry should also take into account the wholesale price index in addition to the consumer price index in the preparation of the final power contracts. There has been a long debate on the delimitation of the power regime. In today’s regime, both some companies in the power-intensive industry and the woodworking industry have access to power under government-determined conditions. These are initially very complex enterprises. Technology, products, markets, profitability and the relative importance of power costs in production differ widely. Many of the power-intensive businesses are corner stone holdings in traditional industrial sites such as Mo i Rana, Odda, Sauda, etc. In such communities, with a particularly one-sided industrial structure, it is important to facilitate further production. The aluminium industry is, in principle, a powerful industrial activity which has not been offered power contracts in the proposal. This is at the company's own request. This industry has negotiated long-term power contracts in the market and thus does not need power under government-determined conditions. However, there is one exception in the proposition, and there is South Norway Aluminium. This company is part of the Government's proposal. This is the only aluminium producer who does not have a long-term power supply agreement. The Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left find it in this context as well, of course, to include Becromal on the Notodden, which is also an aluminium company. This company further refines aluminium and meets the power intensity requirements. By offering the company a power contract, it will help to facilitate the further processing of a raw material produced in Norway. It will also have positive effects on employment in the Notodden, which is a traditional industrial site and in relation to the environment, in the case of less pollution associated with the transport of raw materials. With regard to the proposal to include Hunsfos, I initially have a strong understanding of the local interests that have long fought for this company to have a power agreement. Nevertheless, it is natural in this context to assume that the woodworking industry has not been introduced into the new power regime. It is a result based on an assessment, among other things. the relative importance of the power price in production. Inclusion of this holding can therefore be seen as unnatural in relation to other small enterprises in the woodworking industry, which naturally would also be interested in such an agreement. As regards the proposed lease agreement in Sauda, the Christian People's Party believes that it is natural for Elkem to be offered a new lease. Elkem has the power rights in question until 2009 and 2010, and it is therefore natural that the company is responsible for the further development of power together with Sunnhordland Kraftlag. This is not altered by the recent transfer of the manganese activity to the French Era. The planned extension in the Sauda Falls will hardly be achieved if the Workers' Party's proposal is given a majority. A lease as proposed will facilitate a significant industrial effort in Saudi Arabia. This is also in line with the view previously established by the Christian People's Party that limited access for some companies to further rental of power plants and waterfalls covered by agreements on the pre-empted fall back. The changes made by the Government of the Grand Duchy are of a minor nature only. It is very gratifying that a broad majority of the Grand Duchy concludes on the main proposals of the Government and thus provides an important part of Norwegian industry with long-term planning opportunities. Finally, the Workers' Party's proposal to include both Hunsfos and Becromal will not be able to receive the support of the Centre Parties, based on previously stated justifications. We still see it positively that Becromal is now being incorporated in line with what is our primary proposal, namely that Becromal should enter, regardless of whether other companies come in or not. Nevertheless, we will be able to understand that the representatives representing West-Agder, East-Agder and Telemark will be able to feel the freedom to support subsidiaryly the proposal that the Workers' Party stands for as an architect and is likely to become the majority decision in the Stortinget today. I then take up the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e181	Brother Yngve Rahm has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e184	The issue we are dealing with today affects many industrial enterprises and communities — communities that are built around the enterprise and, in most cases, located in District Norway. The new power regime will affect planned investments and thus affect jobs. It is therefore understandable that both trade unions, directors and stakeholder organisations have engaged in this matter. The right is concerned that the industry in Norway should have competitive framework conditions. The powerful industry contributes significantly to the further processing of power, to the creation of value added and to employment. Industry is well advanced in developing and implementing modern technologies. It underlines the importance of good framework conditions for industry. Right-wing believes that long-term business supply agreements combined with the sale of power plants to industry will create a better functioning energy market and provide industry with power to stable and competitive conditions. We are disappointed that the Right's proposal to allow industry to buy power plants back does not reach a majority. Such a solution would have created greater predictability and the best framework conditions for the powerful industry. When this proposal falls, the Right will support the Government's proposal on leases. Norwegian Hydro, Norwegian Forest and large parts of Elkem meet their power needs through business agreements. With increased competition on the power market, it will gradually be possible for more enterprises to obtain favourable market conditions. However, the right recognises the need for a new round of power contracts under government terms. At the same time, there is broad agreement that the contracts currently adopted are to be regarded as a transitional arrangement. On the right, it is difficult to decide on the Government's proposals. On the one hand, the Stortinget is invited to have an opinion on which companies are to be offered new power contracts, how much power they will have, and at what price. On the other hand, the Ministry of Stortinget warns against making changes to the Government’s proposal because it will increase uncertainty in relation to the EEA Agreement. We must be prepared to ensure that the liberalisation of the energy market in the EU will increase the focus on compliance with the conditions of competition in the EEA territory. I disagree when Bent Hegna produces Anne Enger Lahnstein's letter to the committee as a threat. I see it to a greater extent as a statement of the facts. The right position is crystal clear: we are not going to contribute to increased uncertainty for businesses. We have a great deal of understanding of many of the wishes and demands that have come from the industry. But Anne Enger Lahnstein has been crystal clear during the treatment of this matter. Changes in scale or price conditions will create uncertainty. That risk will not take or be included in the right and assign to the enterprises. The election bottle singles out today, can quickly turn into the sour wean tomorrow. We note that the Ministry believes that the Government's arrangements are in line with the EEA obligations. However, with the increased focus on competition rules, we are surprised that the Ministry has not previously clarified the principles for the award of power contracts with the EEA Supervisory Authority, ESA. With a pre-clearance, you'd be able to overcome all your doubts. Now we have to live with uncertainty. To this end, the right supports proposals to return the proposition to the Government with notice that the principles should be clarified in advance with ESA. This proposal does not appear to achieve a majority. Therefore, the right-hand party decides to subsidise the proposition on the basis that the Ministry considers it to be within the scope of the EEA Protocol. There is little drama in the proposals of the Workers' Party, although Bent Hegna in rhetoric makes Anne Enger Lahnstein appear to be the purest market librarian. The substance of the Workers' Party's proposal bears the most impact of being symbolic adjustments. But if it's true that we're already at the limit of what ESA will accept, such adjustments can be costly to the industry. This does not mean that the right does not disagree with the proposals presented today, but we believe that it is the ministry that has to assess whether this is within the framework of the EEA Protocol. I therefore look forward to the articles of the Council of State later. The strangest act today is the Progress Party that stands for. They're opposed to government power contracts, yes, they go for a purely market-based system. At the same time, they vote in favour of the Right's proposal to return the proposition. The Progress Party shares with the Right in warning against making changes to the Government’s proposal, but nevertheless seems to vote for the amendments proposed in the force agreements they oppose. I don't know if this is to create a total confusion, or an expression of internal compromises between the liberals and the populists. But closer to a political sanctuary, hardly any political party has been in this room. Finally, I would like to address the proposal on which the Right is on its own.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e216	Jan Tore Sanner has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e219	It is gratifying that today, after all, the Storting will join St.prp. No 52 for 1998-99, which lays down the principle of power allocation to the remaining part of the power-intensive industry after large-scale activities, such as energy-intensive industries. Norwegian Hydro and Norwegian Forest, in advance, had said goodbye to the so-called 104 regime and obtained commercial contracts. The new power regime is a consequence of changing framework conditions in the power industry and reflects the principle of debt in the EEA territory. Because the debate on the EEA in Norway has been absent or influenced by political slogans, it may surprise many that the EEA Agreement has seen clear limits to our freedom of action, including in such a case. But that is the case, and especially in the question of power prices, it would be necessary to conform to the new framework conditions. The government has done that, and it has a clear majority behind it in the Committee for a Force regime that will stand steady, also internationally. So it turns out that the reactions of the companies in question are slightly different. Some have, for example: marked dissatisfaction with the arrangement. But today's debate also shows that more people will be involved, and I have to say it's easier to understand the last ones than the first ones. The point is that businesses should buy their power in the market to a much greater extent than before. They're interested in having at the bottom a good portion of their own power, on long-term and reliable terms. If they do, it will be easier to manage the market. The power regime of Stortinget joins today includes both regular power contracts and leases. A general principle is that the force, as in the past, should go to concrete industrial projects. Power and community will be linked together. This ensures that local resources are still used for value creation. The communities that are involved in this are an important opportunity for the construction of the districts. For example, there may be: The Odda and Sauda communities are enjoying themselves today. They are now getting an impact on the vision they have had for a long time. The companies, trade unions, the municipality – everyone has been on some that they had a good case. There is such a reason to want Odda and Sauda to close with the day, for there are great interests that have been at stake. The opposition to the leases comes first from the Workers' Party. Yet the party finally said yes to Odda, but no to Sauda. And it's certainly noticed. The argument is that the lease agreement in Sauda dismantles the basis of the repo, the arrangement that has so far ensured that private stakeholders have to return to the state purchased or leased power once the agreement has expired. But that's how it's going to go on. I would like to say to the representative Hegna that the leases conflict with the Homefall Institute in letter or spirit. On the contrary, they are leading the system further into the future. The centre party will always be involved in creating multiples for this superfluous key steering gear. The Labour Party's argument is that the second relapse of force is acceptable, but not if it occurs for the third time. Such an interpretation supports the desire of Statkraft to stand as a builder in Saudi Arabia. But the Labour Party will have this as a principle, which, in my opinion, is meaningless, it is sad that the party violates the principle as soon as it is launched. For action to follow words, the Labour Party had at least, in order to be consistent, at least the voice of Sauda IV, which is in exactly the same position as Tysso II and Swallow II. But it doesn't happen. Secondly, there should be a principle cross of thought for the same party that, if the end line is set after a second relapse, the fall-back institute will quickly reach its historic end point. It is not a government party line. We see what seems to be valuable to be able to think through the situation every time a relapse occurs. It's at the point where we can exercise control. Then it's good to be able to play on more tools, not only government contracts, but also lease agreements, but always with a return to the state. That's and it's going to be the main score. The leases are not a forward-looking element, they are in principle in the same loop as for example. the agreement Hydro got in Tyin/Årdal. The battle for the leases took place when Stortinget discussed Document No. 8:19 for 1997-98. As a case spokesman, I always meant that there was a basis for a positive decision. But things were delayed pending the new power regime. There was new doubt in Sauda and Odda. Today is after all to judge our common struggle the crown with luck. With history, it's like the AS Tysse Falls take on the renovation of the old power station, a frontrunner from cultural memory. It's an act that will respect it, and it's natural that the power company will deal with it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e240	The theme we are addressing in this debate, a debate that is deflected with minimal speaking time and without repetition, is about as important areas as framework conditions that can be crucial for the survival of a number of communities, about rural policy and employment, and our ability to combine production and the environment. Let me look back. There is a link between the location of industry and the availability of power. The industry was located where power was available, and many of the power stations were built for industrial exploitation. This relationship was and is the basis of a number of communities, particularly in the West and in the Nordic countries. Maintaining this context is therefore fundamental for the industrial communities, for the districts and for an important export industry for Norway. But then environmental policy objections have been raised to this industry. I am convinced that if we have the ability and have the ability to combine the right instruments, we can take care of the seemingly conflicting interests. We can have long-term power agreements that enable industry to invest on the basis of a long-term strategy, which will ensure the survival of one-sided industrial communities. We can make demands on the contracts that will lead to energy savings, which will strengthen the powerful industry in Norway as the most environmentally friendly in the world, an industry that will be energy efficient and use the purest energy we can produce. This cannot produce the market mechanisms. Our powerful industry is a major consumer of a limited resource, pure hydropower. About 35 TWh, i.e. about 25-30 pst. by our power consumption, goes to this industry. There is a significant untapped potential, about 2.5 – 3 TWh, in recycling – in other words, three whole eights. 1TWh is exploited, and is part of our energy system. When we know how much power many put in the struggle for the expansion of Upper Otta, it's amazing how uninterested the same parties are in saving three such expansions. We could do that with a good deal with the industry. For me, it is important to give industry framework conditions that motivate us to survive and develop in our industrial communities. Without a long-term perspective, this type of industry will not invest in modernisation and energy savings. Some of it has already done a job to become energy efficient, but there is still a lot to pick up. We're going to impose it – and motivate it for – to get better. It costs to be energy efficient, it takes time to earn it back. That's why we need long-term care. Therefore, we need motivation, and for SV, an agreement where energy savings lead to a reduction in the price of contract power and remove the dwindling plan would be a real carrot in order to improve – to be the best. I want to record SV's suggestions, which are set in the setting. During a five-minute post, I can't go into some of the specific issues, but SV shares most of the comments with the Workers' Party. I can agree with Bent Hegna's clearly critical attitude towards the central party's repatriation of the second time and the extension of the lease with Elkem in the case of the Saudi Falls. I also share the Workers' Party's position regarding Odda, Tysso II and Bremander regarding Swallow II. We also agree on Becromal and Hunsfos, so the Workers' Party and we are mostly together on the concrete points. But our primary position – where we were a little lonely – was to get more long-term, environmental-oriented agreements demanding a strong environmental burden on businesses, but at the same time actually better framework conditions than what was available from the Government, if the obligations had been followed up. In order not only to stand alone, we have then chosen to join the Workers' Party in most specific matters, because it has been the second best solution for us.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e267	Inge Myrvoll has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e270	When the Government proposed to offer some industrial enterprises new power contracts and leases, the reception was positive from a number of teams. However, some said that the scheme was too bad, and indicated that the government did not have an offensive industrial policy that took seriously the communities that depend on the powerful industry. It was suggested that the Workers' Party would make a different and better arrangement. Now we know that that didn't happen. The government's proposals are balanced, reworked and good. It gets almost full support in Stortinget, among others. with the support of the Workers' Party. The system of power contracts has been heavily debated. That is why it is positive that we are able to take decisions today to clarify the number of communities and businesses that have been waiting for. It is also very positive that there is a broad consensus on the main issues. That Bent Hegna chooses to compensate for the fact that the Workers' Party has not taken advantage of the possibility of making its own proposals in the case of, for example: Price, with a tough rhetoric, we get to take for information, but it does not change the realities that I have described, namely that the Workers' Party largely adheres to the Government's arrangements, even if they had the opportunity to make a different arrangement if they chose to prioritize it. State power currently has contracts under government terms of 17 TWh, and in addition, 4 TWh is disposed of by industry by way of agreements on a temporary fall-back. Contracts with 4.5 TWh and lease with 2 TWh are now proposed. That means that from being in a situation where contracts and leases have been 1/6 of the consumption, we now get into a situation where just over 5 pst. of our power consumption is regulated by contracts and agreements. The scope has been reduced because operators have entered into commercial agreements as well as because the authorities make a demarcation and tightening. The Government presupposes that new contracts should be a transitional arrangement and that they should be added to a gradual phasing-out during the contractual period. The left fully supports the layout of the Government. It is based on the fact that some enterprises and local communities need the clarification and the framework conditions they are now offered. At the same time, it's very positive that there's a broad consensus about that arrangement for stepping down that we're going into here. It will enable the industry to live with it, and it is a scheme that will also stimulate an increased effort, as Myrvoll called for. On some relatively marginal points, amendments have been made to the Committee. It has been mentioned earlier in the debate that there is going to be a step down to 50 pst. of the contract volume in 2020. This big winner, as Hegna mentioned in his post, represents a difference of 0.5 TWh. Two enterprises with a total power volume of 200 GWh are included, and there is an adjustment to the indexation of the power contracts that is difficult to establish will have a significant impact. This does not change the main image: The government has received full access. I think it is very positive that there is a majority in favour of the proposal for a lease for Elkem in Sauda. The government is supported by the Right and the Advance Party, and we are pleased with that. I am surprised to say that the Workers' Party will not be in favour of a solution that the Sauda community so strongly wants. And as the representative Dale has well described, there is no logic in the Workers' Party's handling of the Sauda issue in relation to their attitude towards Odda. The solution for Sauda that now seems to have a majority is completely identical to the solution that the Left has been working for since the election, and that I promised to work for at a large public meeting that was in Sauda. And to those who have said that the Central Party has changed its position, I can report back that this is also the position of the Central Party at the same meeting, before the elections, they said they would work for. It is not right, as Bent Hegna said, that the Council of State has come up with a ‘threat’. He has recommended the Government's arrangement and argued well for it. Jan Tore Sanner is right when he says that there was a reality description of the state council, and I am pleased to record that the Workers' Party chose to base it on its policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e302	Da St.prp. No 52 was presented in March, it was for many a long-awaited recommendation from the government of Bondevik to a future industrial power regime. Already in 1995 there was pressure on the then Minister of Energy Jens Stoltenberg about the need for future industrial security. Jens Stoltenberg assured the Stortinget in his energy policy statement at the time that: ‘The government attaches great importance to the need for a long-term and stable framework for its activities, and therefore we intend to ensure that it is ensured in the future for this industry’. That's what Stoltenberg said in 1995. In the autumn of 1996, the State Council of Faremo stressed that power would still be a competitive advantage for Norwegian power-intensive activities, and in February 1997 the Council of State of Frøiland was told that it was urgent to clarify a new regime. Terje Sandkjær of the Centerpartiet interpolated at that time on the need for long-term contracts in general and for the needs of the southern companies in particular. The centre party, the Christian People's Party and the Right made a strong impression in the interpellation debate. Terje Sandkjær from the Centerpartiet, Jon Lilletun from the Christian People's Party and Ansgar Gabrielsen from the Right were unanimous in his speech, and spoke warmly for the Southern companies, powerful industry and the need for power of the wood processing. ‘I want a little more speed and a little more willingness to recognise that Agder is in a special situation that needs to be corrected’, Jon Lilletun said that time – but then it became quiet, completely silent. So it was going to be two years before the Bondevik government got on the ground in this case, which the opposition thought was so urgent in 1997. In fact, there has been no pressure from the parties who thought it was urgent, after they took the government offices themselves. It's a shame to say that the presentation was received with ovations. With the strong remarks made by the Ministry on the restrictions imposed by the EEA Agreement, Stortinget was presented with a case which gave little room for changes by Stortinget. The regime is to be seen as a transitional arrangement to normal commercial conditions at the end of the contract period, and the time when power was a competitive advantage for the Norwegian power-intensive industry will definitely be over. The rapporteur has explained our views on the lease agreements with Elkem. I register that the central party council has changed its mind about the leases this year. Or maybe she doesn't? Perhaps the arrangement last summer was that this matter was to be fixed in Stortinget. The Right Party and the Advance Party want to sub-privatise and quote State force, and promote proposals in the vote on this. The Workers' Party still wants power plants mainly to be owned and operated in public activities. The centre party is constantly talking about the importance of national ownership and national control of resources. That's what they say, but really not what they do. State power as an industrial governance tool is weakened by the Council's proposal on lease agreements for Saudi Arabia. I am pleased that the southern companies are offered power contracts through this suspension. I record that it is only the Workers' Party and the SV that integrate Hunsfos into the regime, which it has so far been working across the board for too long. I am pleased that the Progress Party has signalled subsidiary support for Hunsfos. That'll give you the majority. In 1997, the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right were deeply concerned that Hunsfos would be awarded power contracts. I record that that's what they said, but not what they did.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e340	The Progress Party welcomes the Government’s proposal for a new industrial power regime, which aims to enable companies to adapt to the normal market organisation framework for the power industry. But we also see that the government's arrangement is very regular, and lacks flexibility. The Progress Party believes that the Government must urgently facilitate the exploitation of Norwegian water and gas power resources in an industrial context. Industry must be given the opportunity to participate more fully in power generation and to expand power generation ownership, among other things. ensuring a flexible offer page. It is also important that the framework conditions are general and equal for all, so that some groups of business are not treated differently from others by the authorities because of special agreements in force. The Progress Party believes that it is not the task of politicians to determine prices or other special arrangements on power or other products. We believe it is the market's task through supply and demand to set these prices. The Party considers that new contracts should not be concluded with the power-intensive industry, but that the power should be sold in the market, at market prices and in accordance with market economy principles. I am aware that parts of the industry meet their power needs from their own power plant, and that these fall back to the state in the future. The party of progress is of the opinion that the industry should own its own power plants without recourse to the authorities. From what I have said, the Progress Party has put forward two proposals. But I'm so realistic that I don't think we get a majority for them, so we're going to vote subsidiaryly for the second best. I have noticed the wishes of Sauda Municipality in this matter. As a rogaland representative, I hope that with our vote we can thus help to give Saudi more industry.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e353	At the pace of a hundred years, it may be possible to make a short reflection. What's the difference between the hundred years that we're going to go out of? Of course, many things, but one of the most important events is the industrialization of Norway, especially by using our water resources. History of the 1900s is not least the history of the power-consuming industry. In many ways, one might say that it was the exploitation of our hydropower resources that provided the basis for modern Norway. That one could use this resource is due to bold and not least foresight policy decisions. Today, we are still discussing tools that have worked for 60-70 years, saying a lot about the political craft that was done at the time. The introduction of the fallback institution was a historical event. Rarely has a political decision been so sustainable. Decisions we're going to make today, unfortunately I don't think they're as historic or can be the same for a long time. One thing, however, seems to be clear: when we deal with this matter, we secure a part of our history. I am very pleased that it now seems to be a solution for the Western Industrivstadmuseum in Odda. It is very positive that the Tysso II power plant is now being upgraded. It is a matter that has been close to my heart for a long time, and I am pleased with the solution that we now get to that matter. For us in the Workers' Party, it has always been important that natural resources should be a common property, and that they should be managed to benefit society. For us, it is important not to privatise the water resources, so that only economic returns will determine their use. For us, it is a goal that these resources should secure jobs in Norwegian industry. We know that many of the companies that process water power are located in District Norway, often in places with one-sided industries, where there is little alternative employment. Therefore, getting good and sustainable conditions for this industry is good district policy. That power resources can be used where they are produced is also positive. In the case of a privatisation, such as the right hand side, any public control over the use of force is lost. Sales on the open market or abroad may result from such a policy. The relapsing system to the state has been important for public control of hydropower resources. If the Government's proposal for a new lease for the Saudi Falls today gets multiples, there may be a nail in the chest for the whole scheme. I'm surprised that the center government is in favour of such a game of chance. Especially for the Central Party, this is a political saltomortal speech in relation to the previous position and ideology. That this happens almost without a reason and debate, is strange. Especially strange is this case, given that Elkem, who is going to have its lease extended, no longer has industry in Sauda. It is important to clarify that the question of long-term rental is not a question of whether the Saudi industry will gain power or not. It's going to get it, regardless of this question. The government's proposal to extend the lease with Elkem will not only exclude Statkraft from agreeing to upgrade and further develop the power plant in Saudi. The local partner Sunnhordland Kraftlag also falls away. I am therefore pleased that the long-term tenants are opening up for Sunnhordland Kraftlag to be involved in the further development work. It is positive that the governance will impose stricter requirements on energy efficiency. At the same time, it is important that theactivities are stimulated to think about an acquisition by resuming the profit. It is important that the government in its work does not see the individual enterprise in isolation, but also sees how energy can be used in interaction with society around the enterprises. You can find a good example of such an idea in the local plan that is drawn up in Odda and paid by Odda Municipality. I hope the department can support the plans that come up there. When, in the Labour Party today, we are essentially going to vote for the vote, it is because we believe that it will give industry good and long-term framework conditions and that it will safeguard industry and provide the basis for initial investment. This is particularly the case after the Workers' Party has received multiple numbers that will ensure more power for the enterprises, and by including several actions in the decisions that are being made today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e386	The government's proposal for new industrial power supplies is based on long-term and predictability in order to secure jobs and activities at one-sided industrial sites within the framework of the EEA Agreement. 16 enterprises are covered by the proposal for new industrial contracts. The price is initially 15.50 øre per. kWh. The contracts will run until 2020. The government is taking steps to offer new leases for the Sauda River Strip, Tysso II in Odda and Svelgen I and II in Bremen. The price is initially 15.75 øre per. kWh. The leases have a duration up to and including 2030. At the time of conclusion of the contract and lease, the industry must terminate existing contractual relationships with government terms. For many enterprises, this may result in significantly lower prices than mentioned above. Industrial contracts and leases are transitional arrangements. The proposal allows enterprises to gradually adapt to the normal market organisation framework. Attention has been paid to concentrating the transitional arrangements on cases where the challenges of skills building and conversion are greatest. This is reflected, inter alia, in: in the sample of enterprises covered by the proposal and by proposing scaling of the contract volume in relation to the power needs of the enterprises. Industry is required to contribute with power regulation and dry-year protection. Moreover, at any time, authorities may impose specific requirements relating to energy efficiency. I refer to the fact that the Committee has underlined the importance of this, and I would like to stress that the contracts are closely followed on this point. Power contracts and leases are to be concluded by 1 July of next year. The majority of the Committee points out that the establishment of the new contracts must aim at achieving binding agreements on energy recovery. I do not disagree with such a goal, but I must stress that it may take time to establish such agreements. The majority of the Committee requests that an element which takes into account the wholesale price index in addition to the consumer price index be incorporated by indexing the power contracts. I'm assuming that the ministry is authorized to clarify this in more detail. Such specificisation must take place within the framework laid down by the EEA Agreement. I refer you to the Department's letter to the Committee of 28 May and 9 June, where, among other things, point out that the use of the wholesale price index indicates an increase in the opening price. The proposal of the Committee does not include the leases. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the price conditions of the contracts and leases until 2020 have been developed in accordance with the same principles. It is difficult to see good reasons for treating the contracts and leases differently on this issue. I also believe that the opening price of the contracts will be slightly increased, since there is a majority in the Committee for a slightly weaker reduction in volumes from 2011. The majority of the Committee will offer power contracts to Becromal and Hunsfos. I assume that the Committee has considered all the issues related to this and that it is not appropriate to extend the scheme to new companies later. New industrial projects will in future have to compete in line with other energy supply projects. The Ministry has four applications for 104 power contracts for treatment. These applications came before the deadline of 19 March of this year and are treated in the same way as previous allocations. Applications will be completed in a short time. I am pleased that the Government's proposals have, in general, been given a majority in the Committee on Energy and the Environment, and here in the European Parliament today, and that a major and important issue for industry has been clarified.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e412	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e415	I have a few questions for the Council of State. Is it to enter into a new lease for the second time in Sauda in line with the councillor Arnstad thought last year? And is this in line with what the Central Party has previously said about the repatriation scheme? Is that at all in line with what has been the principles of the fall-back scheme? Can the Council of State assure us that the changes in the size of the labour force are in line with the EEA Agreement, since the government parties are aware of most of the changes proposed by the Labour Party. So I have a little comment in the end. The Council of State attaches great importance to this being a transitional arrangement, for industry to shift more and more under market conditions, and that is well and good. But what does the Government do to ensure that there is enough power in the Norwegian market, so that the power prices keep down to a low level? So far, I have not registered that the government has lifted a finger to produce new power production in Norway to ensure that the power prices stay at a low level.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e424	In the case of the Sauda lease which is given to a majority today, there is no breach of previous practice of repatriation on the part of the Central Party or Government. On the contrary, as the representative Dale pointed out, neither in the case of letter nor in the case of spirit, there is a breach of the fall-back institution. Relapse is fixed. It's just about a continued lease. Moreover, the lease has been better hit now than it has been in the past. It may be the explanation of some adjusted word usage since Arnstad's letter, which is referenced in the setting. The lease has been concluded by the fact that an application for a concession must have been submitted before 1 July 2001, if not lost. In addition, the volume, the volume of the force, is fixed with conditions of need which, if not met by the lessee, will have to be returned to Statkraft for the same price for which it is delivered. So that's the answer to that. I really don't understand why Bent Hegna is trying to question the central party's view of the fall-back. With regard to the question of whether the changes are in line with the EEA Agreement, I am not in doubt that the arrangements submitted by the Government are within the EEA Agreement. Otherwise, I refer to what I said about this in my post, also when it comes to pricing. With regard to the question of whether this is a transitional arrangement, it is precisely in order to satisfy the EEA Agreement. After hearing the representatives of the Workers' Party here today, I almost have to remind you that the Central Party actually took the government crisis in 1990 under the concession law and the EEA Agreement. We are not the ones who have supported what is now making it necessary to set up a power regime here that is in the long run in line with market liberalist principles. We have achieved a good solution for the industry. We've got transitional arrangements, and we've got a deal that's within the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e431	What the industry wants is a real offer in terms of access to power and the possibility of trading in a free market. It would also be the best guarantee for a proper price and a low price, including with regard to the EEA Agreement. Governments have created some uncertainty about the proposition in relation to the EEA Agreement, and I understood in the response that the Council of State came to Bent Hegna, that there was a little more uncertainty outside and went. Then I have to refer to the letter from the Committee, where the Committee asks the Council of State whether proposals for new industrial power agreements are in line with the EEA Agreement. The answer we received from the Council of State on 10 May has made me uncertain, and I became more uncertain today, because in the letter of reply, the Council of State uses expressions such as ‘at best discretion’ and ‘the ministry assesses’. In other words, the Council of State is not quite sure. The same applies to the letter from the Ministry of 27 May, where the Council of State writes that the Ministry finds it difficult to give a precise assessment of the uncertainty in relation to the EEA Agreement. If the Storting includes new enterprises, rather, the share of power needs increases. And the Council of State concludes the letter by writing that a transitional regime can cause increased interest from competing industry in the EEA territory. My question to the Council of State is: Why has the Government not assessed the industrial power contracts, so that it can be said with industry certainty that these power contracts and leases are in line with the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e445	I must say that I agree with Jan Tore Sanner when he pointed out in his intervention in the debate that it is difficult to understand what the Progress Party actually means here. Now Korsberg says that industry wants market liberalism, and has no power contract regime – government regime – at all. At the same time, therefore, Mr Korsberg will today, as far as I understand, contribute to the inclusion of more people in the system. It has to be because someone wants to go under the plan, and that's how it's a taxed and positive scheme that we've been able to do here. Then there was a question about the EEA Agreement. I have very seriously pointed out that what we have presented has been carefully assessed in relation to the needs of the industry and the requirements of the EEA Agreement. And so I have no doubt that the regime presented to the Government's Storting is within the EEA Agreement. I have pointed out, both in letters and in the meeting with the Committee, that if the Committee chooses to make major changes to it, it is clear that there can be a situation where uncertainty can be created. As for the changes that seem to be majority voting for today, like Gunnar Kvassheim, I will characterize them as marginal. So I still believe that this is within the EEA Agreement. There are good, long-term schemes for the powerful industry, especially in those areas of the country that need time to convert to a market-organising force situation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e454	It feels a bit funny for an EU member to rely on EEA opponent Enger Lahnstein, but I don't think there's any reason to suspect her of tactical games when she's warned the committee not to change the government's arrangement. I believe the Council of State when she says that it is to avoid uncertainty in relation to the EEA. However, I note that the government parties support some proposals for adjustments, and I understood the last response of the Council of State – and that is basically what I want to confirm that I have understood correctly – that she believes that the proposed changes in indexation and weaker deceleration, with the clarifications she made in her statement, are within the framework of the EEA Protocol, as the ministry also believes that the proposition is. These two proposals could be supported by the Right if the Council of States can therefore confirm that, with the interpretations it has given, they are within the scope of the EEA Protocol. Then there's one question left, and it's about Becromal and Hunsfos. I would ask the Council of State to make an assessment here, whether it is within the framework of including Becromal, possibly how it will be in relation to the Workers' Party's proposal to also include Hunsfos.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e463	First of all, I have to say that it is absolutely right that I take most seriously the responsibility for creating a regime that is within the EEA Agreement, because I think – once the EEA Agreement is in place – that is absolutely necessary. This is actually serious – I almost have to tell the representative Hegna. We can't fool ourselves with this, to put it straight out. So there were questions about these adjustments that have been made – and I refer to my post. So when it comes to indexation, when you put a greater emphasis on the wholesale price index in relation to the consumer price index, I referred to a previous letter, and I said it would affect the output price. And as for this weaker descent, the same thing applies there. I made that clear in my article. In addition, I said that I assume that the department is authorised to continue working on this. On these premises, I believe there is no doubt that this is within the EEA Agreement. In the case of Becromal, the Centre Parties will also support the proposal for their inclusion in the scheme. It will, as I understand it, not happen to Hunsfos. I can do nothing but point to what I said in my post at that point, namely that I expect that when the Storting chooses to do so, the consequences have also been assessed. But it's impossible for me to go further here. I had expected to have questions as to why the case has not been notified to ESA. The reason for that is simply that we're not in doubt about this. What is to be notified to ESA is to the extent that it is considered that something is State aid or may be State aid. Nothing to that effect is present here. We believe that this is not State aid, and therefore we have not notified.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e477	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e480	The Norwegian power-intensive industry is historically built with the basis of Norwegian energy resources. Around the last century, hydropower development and industrial construction were so interrelated that major discussions arose as to whether the state or industry would be responsible for the expansion of hydropower. It ended up with the government building and the industry getting long-term, low prices. These agreements have been well preserved for many decades and are justified, not least because of the predictability that remains the main element of further development of this type of industry. This has been agreed by the government and the big business. Yes, as late as 1997, the centre government of the Adult Paper says that it is important to ensure predictability and long-term framework conditions for industry. Furthermore, it states that the objective is that Norwegian-produced energy should continue to provide the basis for employment and value creation in Norway. The industry must continue to be guaranteed long-term access to power under reasonable conditions, while at the same time requiring environmental measures in industry. The last thing, environmental action, is the only thing that is real today in connection with St.prp. No 52. The second shall be governed from Brussels. The government’s proposal for new power contracts will reduce future power supplies to industry, which in turn will lead to a reduction in today’s power-intensive industry. Such sites include: Finnfjord Smelteverk in Troms and Rana in Nordland. Finnfjord Smelteverk has so far invested large sums of money on environmental measures. Aggravation of the framework conditions will turn out to be negative, and there is little room for conversion. Finnfjord Smelteverk has what we call 104 contracts, which today is approx. 16 cents per cent. kWh. The Ministry's proposed market price in St.prp. No 52 has a price of 15.5 ør per. kWh, which is also subject to system performance requirements for the industry. For those companies that currently have 104 contracts, the changes in the new power regime do not initially create significant economic deterioration, but the uncertainty about the dwindling and possible phase-out of the entire regime is causing concern for the future. The Rana community is the single society that will have the biggest changes in the framework conditions after St.prp. No 52 adopted. Most Rana companies today have contracts with old prices, which are anchored in power resources after the closure of the Jernverket. Most of today's Rana industry is built on these power resources. Therefore, it was an important prerequisite for the conversion in Mo Industripark that the electricity price and the amount of electricity should be the basis for the further development of a competitive industrial activity, cf. St. pp. No 103 for 1989-90. How to read St.prp. No 103, is the decrease in the volume of the proposed contracts and the increase in the price made in St.prp. No 52, in fact, contrary to the previous decision of the Storting. The Finnish company that owns Fundia in Mo in Rana put all its trust in the Norwegian authorities to follow up previous decisions, and has invested about 500 million in the last seven years. kr. This initiative is a direct consequence of the majority's industrial policy decisions in this Chamber. The company is busy approx. 800 employees, and unfortunately this activity has recently been severely affected by the judgment on the employer’s fee in ESA. This company will not impose two major financial burdens, and that the liquidation of an enterprise of this magnitude will have consequences for the Industrial Park and the Rana community, it will not have much imagination to understand. Here, the whole of the Nordic region also expects a contribution from the Minister of Local Affairs. The reality is that market forces have taken over much of the control of the energy arena, and you can see that a continuation of an existing regime is now going to the end. The main question now is how the Storting should take account of industrial sectoral policy considerations, as described in St.prp. No 100 for 1990-91 on the reorganisation of State power. [[The President clubs.]] Finally, I would like to mention the hollowing out of the fall-back institute that is now in the process of happening. The Bondevik management will be the first to make holes in this safety valve by opening for ownership and rental of up to 140 years.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e508	I want to start by saying that the Workers' Party has made a number here that Elkem has sold to Eramet. That's what they say in the setting, is why they can't agree to a new lease. Something similar has never been the cause of the Workers' Party before. But since the Workers' Party has used this as an argument that the lease should not be brought into port, I think it is right to quote from a letter sent by the Municipality of Saudi on 6 May.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘At the turn of the year 98/99, the French establishment Eramet ASA bought the melting plant in Saudi Arabia from Elkem.’... «Has the sale of the melting plant changed the issues in this case? Is it no longer something that warrants Elkem's presence and rights in Sauda?Situation from the Sauda Municipality is the answer relatively simple: The sale of the melting plant appears to be favourable from the part of the municipality and the Sauda community. The background for the sale was that Elkem no longer had a raw material supplier for his manganese production. Manganese ore deposits in the world are dominated/directed by two global groups — and the Eramet is part of one of them.’The melting plant’s activities are through the sale of ‘secure access to manganese ore’. [[and at very competitive prices]] This should anger the Workers' Party. So that's why the Sauda community thinks what's happening here today is very positive. I find it regrettable that a party like the Workers' Party does not understand this. The right also believes that the time has come for us to have a partial privatisation of State power. That is why, together with the Progress Party, we have made a proposal on this. In 1993 there was a debate in Odelstinget on 1 June. Then there were five communities – Bremander, Ålvik, Odda, Sauda and Høyanger, all one-sided industrial sites where power-dependent industrial activities are key companies in the community – which were not qualified to participate in opportunities such as Ot.prp. No 70 for 1992-93 otherwise open for future repatriation. Even these communities are asking thinly for equal treatment, and they are doing it cross-politically. The industrial enterprises which, in the period 1957-1966, concluded an agreement with the State on the offence of repatriation and renting of power there were excluded. When the Court’s proposal does not get a majority today, it means unfair discrimination. The last time we had this case up, the Progress Party went against it. We thought that was sad, but this time they turned around, and we've now got a majority. The rapporteur, Anne Marie Breek, in Sauda, has been ardent about the announcement from the capital that Elkem will be renting the Saudi Falls for another 30 years. But she does not dare to release the cheer until the matter is the club in Stortinget. It is not just the rapporteur who wants to release the cheer, but the whole Sauda community. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e541	The President will not allow representatives to go beyond the speaking time allowed. This applies to both the last and previous speeches.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e544	The use of Norwegian hydropower has been an important contribution to the industrialisation of Norway throughout this century. Many industrial sites depend entirely on long-term supplies of energy to ensure employment, and the Workers' Party is committed to ensuring industry's continued ability to secure long-term and predictable power contracts. There is no doubt and no secret that the Workers' Party had seen a better arrangement for the industry than what we are today adopting. However, the clear communication from the Council of State on the EEA Agreement has made the matter difficult to deal with, and the Stortinget has, in fact, – to put it in a slightly popular language – been tied to the hands and feet in this case. The size does not have its own professional competence in State aid provisions of the EEA Agreement and must therefore base its decisions on the Government’s assessments of what the agreement allows in a new power regime. The government has stressed in particular that it is essential that one does not change the price assumptions. This is why the Workers' Party has agreed to maintain the price level proposed by the Government. The Labour Party has chosen to play a constructive role and seeks to seek support for changing this regime to the benefit of industry. And we have succeeded in changing in some important areas: We have received support to change the tightening of the allocated power, so that the companies at the end of the agreement are left with 50 pst. by the starting point and not 40 pst., as proposed by the Government. We have received support not only to allow the consumer price index to regulate the price, but also to take account of developments in the wholesale price index. We have received support for taking in two new businesses, Notodden and Hunsfos factories respectively. The Workers' Party believes that Sauda Smelteverk must be guaranteed the offer of long-term power supplies. But we believe that it has to happen through power contracts in line with what other companies are offered. We have therefore opposed the proposal for a new lease for Elkem because we believe that it violates the purpose of the repatriation scheme. Although the state is formally owned, State power will not have the right to power over it. This was also underlined by the Council of State, Marit Arnstad, in a letter to the Committee last year, where she pointed out that ‘a system of withdrawals that goes over so many years and is subject to the second time the fall-back approach does not have a practical impact on the control of private ownership of power resources’. Today, the Central Party no longer seems to agree with the Arnstad Council last year. In the Workers' Party, on the other hand, we agree with Arnstad's position last year, and we believe that the Central Party, together with the majority of the population, is now adding up, undermining the purpose of the fall-back scheme. Although there is disagreement in the view of how the repatriation scheme should be practised, the committee has created a broad majority for other changes to the original regime of the Government. We are pleased about that, and it helps to give industry better predictability for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e575	The speakers who have the floor hereafter have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e578	I would like to draw your attention to the note at the bottom of page 3 and at the top of page 4 of the statement that the members of the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, the Right and the SV are behind, that concrete demands for efficient energy use are to be made when the new contracts and leases are to be concluded. In particular, this note points to energy and environmental projects around Sarpsfossen. It amazes me greatly that the centre parties have not been able to join this remark. For a long time, the energy and environmental project around Sarpsfossen has been able to become a reality. As you know, this is an energy recovery project that, if implemented, can release 350 GWh per. years. By exploiting known and reliable technology, recovered energy from Globe Hafslund can supply Glomma Papp with 80 GWh, which is their need, and the rest can be fed to Borregaard, which will cover 20 pst. of their total need for thermal energy. A few days ago, we had the big debate on the development of the Otta watercourse, on the great need for energy, and the resulting environmental interventions. So here we have a project that's almost the same size as the adopted expansion of the Otta watercourse, and it's without any environmental interference. This project, on the other hand, will provide a major improvement in the environment throughout the Sarpsborg district. I record that none of the central parties have been involved in this debate, they have always signed up for it, despite the fact that the government council of Marit Arnstad said they were very interested in the project. In 1996, Hafslund Metall concluded a long-term agreement with Statkraft for approx. 20 kWh with expiry of 2004, a contract that is completely different from the other contracts relating to long-term contracts and energy contracts. But when Hafslund Metal is the key to carrying out such an environmental project, this must be the reason enough for the Government to be able to go in and either remove Hafslund Metal from its contract, or renegotiate, so that this environmental project is directly linked to that contract, as the Committee also demands. As I understand it, Councillor Lahnstein is also interested that this can be done, even if she thought this could take some time. Here is a project you can implement without taking some time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e589	It is likely that the former power regime was not perceived as fair. It was such that e.g. East-Agder's powerful industry did not have State Power contracts. It was the local e-works, as Ost-Agder Kraftverket, which was the main supplier. With the new regime, it seems that some of the bias is being corrected. Norton in Arendal and Lillesand join the regime, and that's good. My question is: is this regime good enough, will it ensure the powerful industry flow at a competitive price compared to the rest of Europe? The answer is well. The EU points out in a report dated 4 May 1999 at the latest that growth in the power-intensive industry depends on the ability to cut production costs, including electricity prices. Thus, the electricity price in the EU may be reduced and, with an open European power market, this has to be assessed against the Norwegian power regime. Businesses will not have to make simple decisions – it is difficult to see 20 years ahead. The Norwegian regime is based on 15.5 øre/kWh in 1999-krona, and in 10 years the volume is to be escalated by 50 pst. by the starting point. The new regime will result in a significant increase in power prices in the coming years compared to the old power contracts. It is currently possible in the free market to conclude 10-year agreements which can be equally favourable. I am therefore not impressed by what the powerful industry is offering. It must be positive that the price is not to be adjusted according to the consumer price index but according to the wholesale price index. In my opinion, this regulation should have been limited to 60-70 pst. and not a 100 pst. index adjustment. My conclusion is: Overall, the fairer companies between them, but the price offered is too poor and clearly points towards the liquidation of a Norwegian power regime.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e605	The representative Blattmann of the Workers' Party had, in an article earlier this evening, almost concerns about the opinions of some other representatives from the Southern countries before the 1997 elections. It could indicate that it might have fallen heavily on her chest that we can today fulfill what we said at the time. St. pp. No 52 for 1998-99, which we are dealing with today, I think I have a lot of good work to do. It has, in my opinion, first and foremost the fact that some of the geographical imbalances it has been in relation to the southern industry are corrected. It is important for Norwegian industry to have long-term framework conditions. What I wish was that in this Chamber there was also a greater commitment to stable framework conditions for the whole of business. Here we give part of the business life 20-year-old contracts with the state for deliveries at a given price and under certain conditions. That's good! I wish that part of the representatives who have a lot of commitment to this matter and in similar matters, also had it when we discuss other framework conditions for business. When I say that this case is important to South Africa, it is because West-Agder is probably one of the two-three states that have the largest exports per. the population. Much of that export comes from this industry. What is in the setting today differs very little from what is in St.prp. No 52. And that's probably part of what's the frustration of some of the working parties. Maybe the last one said it relatively explicitly. He was relatively little "impressed" – understood little satisfaction with what the Workers' Party itself has accomplished in this setting. And on the air pressure that you could kind of feel in the chest of the case rapporteur, it might seem like he wanted the Roman number decisions to be a little more complete. However, I am pleased that we have got a regime that ensures the industry conditions that are definitely competitive, that will provide stability and that are necessary. But I think Kvassheim hit the nail on his head when he said there's a small distance between what's in the proposition and what's in this setting. With the statement we received from the Council of State on what is in paragraphs 1 and 2, the Right will join in what our representative in the Energy Committee said. In the end, it's not that often I give commendation to someone, especially to central government councils. But I feel the deputy oil and energy minister doing a good job when it's oil one day, operating the second day and long-term power contracts on the third day!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e622	For those who are affected by this matter, this is a fairly large and important matter. We're talking about 4 TWh/year. We're talking about industrial companies that sell for an estimated NOK 7 billion, and enough tens of thousands of people working in these companies. 50 pst. by those affected by the agreement are located in the state of Northern Ireland, otherwise a state having a power production of 15 TWh/year and transmitting 5 TWh/year out of the state, far south to the joy of others. It's an industry that doesn't just have a foreign market to deal with. Also, the Storting they have to deal with, and in addition, they have the State power that they have to deal with. Let me just say, since the time is so very short, there's not a single northerner who believes that State power is better able to maintain one kilowatt hour better than what the industry is doing today in the Nordic states. It must be clear from the sun that when this is taken into account in a historical context, it must be allowed to underline this fact that these holdings, situated in an area in which the hydropower is built for one purpose, namely industrial activity, must be allowed to have a long-term perspective in what they are still going to do. In that case, the future must not be a solution for them to perceive the administrator of this force, namely, State Power, as a competitor would have those power contracts cancelled at any time, and which also performs to participate in a debate, claiming that they buy subsidised power, i.e. that this industry has been subsidized in a way. That's far from the case! There is also enough evidence in the farm that competitors of this very successful industry in Norway have power contracts with conditions far better than the Stortinget will adopt quite unanimously today. Finally, I do not think that the Workers' Party should go so high on the track. I remember then Prime Minister Thorbjørn Jagland standing on Elkem's steps in the sea in 1997 and having to respond to a clear demand from Elkem staff to have the industrial power agreement renegotiated and put in place as soon as possible. Yes, the answer was from the then prime minister and current party leader Thorbjørn Jagland. Had I not known better, one would almost think that Jagland was still standing on the Elkem staircase in the Mos Sea.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e631	An important aspect of the proposition is the requirement for an efficient use of energy. The Government proposes that the authorities of the new contracts and leases reserve the right to subsequently impose specific requirements relating to energy efficiency. Of course, no one can disagree with this. I am therefore pleased that such a broad majority in the Committee – the members of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Right and the SV – underlines the value and importance of this very thing. The establishment of the new contracts must therefore be based on these conditions, with the aim of establishing binding agreements on energy recovery, as indicated by the majority in the decision. My question, then, is: why does not a single committee – including the government parties – support such clear formulations? It is true that the representatives of the government parties also stress the importance of a significant emphasis on energy recovery and on energy growth in the implementation of the new power regime. But why can't the same batches be as concrete as the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, the Right and the SV, which indicates that there are a number of projects and a lot of energy that can just be triggered if the authorities make funds available for accommodating and recycling in industry. Such a unique project is precisely the energy and environmental project around Sarpsfossen, to which the majority refer, and which, in the opinion of many, now has an outstanding chance of being realized. That is why I assume that the Council of State and the Department follow up what I see as a very clear signal from a broad majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, which can also lead to us opening up too large and positive social benefits that can be realised. Finally, I just want to ask the Council of State, also with reference to previous articles: Is the Council of State willing to follow up on this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e640	Let me first say that I am pleased that the Storting concludes with such a large majority about the Government's proposal to offer 16 individual companies new government-determined power contracts of 20 years duration, from 1 January 2001. The minor adjustments we have made by the parties to the centre of gravity regarding the phasing-out plan, the indexation and the scope must be considered as what the Council of State called marginal adjustments, which will not create problems in relation to the EEA Agreement. For example, you change the descent by 1 pst. per 1 % year in relation to the original proposal of 6 p.m. per 1 % years must be regarded as a minor change but may nevertheless have an impact on the individual enterprise. When a majority of this will choose to pick out a randomly chosen company, Hunsfos, lift it up and grant it completely different rights from the corresponding companies, it's a matter for the Stortinget. It is objectionable on the basis of the principle of non-discrimination. Hunsfos cannot be characterised as a power intensive industry, since the power only represents 5 pst. Therefore, the decision of the majority will be taken tonight as unfair in relation to those three processing establishments which do not receive the same offer. This is my main reason for going against the Workers' Party's proposal to include Hunsfos – not that there is a risk that this one company will create a problem with ESA, but that it is bloodyly unfair to other three-processing companies that have not had a lobby as effective as that of Hunsfos. The Council of State Lahnstein has underlined that the Government’s arrangements are clear within the framework of the EEA Agreement. She has also provided assurances that the adjustments made by the majority do not represent a problem in relation to the EEA. The representative Sanner stated in his statement that, in meeting with the Committee, Lahnstein warned against changing the Government's proposal, and he pointed out that this warning had also appeared in writing in a letter dated 27 May. to the Committee, as the representative Sanner referred to it, that amendments would create uncertainty. It is important, however, that this wording be seen in conjunction with the preceding section of the letter. It reads as follows: ‘The Ministry finds it difficult to give a precise assessment of the uncertainty in relation to the EEA Agreement if the Storting includes new enterprises or increases the share of the power demand offered by new contracts under government terms. However, the Ministry would point out that an extension of the scheme would weaken the arrangements of the proposal as a transitional arrangement,...» And then it says that if the size changes prices, then the uncertainty can increase. This means that it is difficult for the Ministry to give a precise assessment of uncertainty on a very unexplained issue where reference is made to new businesses. The number of enterprises is then asked, and the Council of State Lahnstein clarified in its discussion with the Committee that it depends on the number of enterprises. On the other hand, if the Storting does something about the price, it will create increased uncertainty. It would therefore be crystal clear that the decisions taken today by Stortinget were to be within the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e658	I have to agree with the Council of State's statement that 'we can't fool ourselves with this'. Now some of the people who have brought us into the EEA have been made as if it were the Council of State's letter that is the problem. There has been pressure and pressure to get an answer about today's decision is within the EEA Agreement or not. It is pressed for a yes or no response. I would like to remind you, especially to the Workers' Party's speakers, that in the government position they were not in doubt that the differentiated employer's fee was within, and that we had full control of it. History has shown something else. I also have experience in some other contexts in which we have discussed the EEA rules and lawyers have argued quite strongly about where the borderline would go – not least I remember it from the time we discussed whether LKAB had the right to claim traffic rights on Ofotbanen. I'm in doubt if it's possible to know exactly where the boundaries go. I am also in doubt whether it is wise to press a borderline when it is uncertain where the borders go, if you do not have a desire to arrest a government council afterwards for having been wrong, but I assume that it is not the main motive. One of the problems we have is actually Statkraft – not that Statekraft is not privatized, but that Statekraft behaves like it was privatized. Power agreements that have not been politically established but which, as a company that might have had certain basic social attitudes, entered into with industry, would have been more unproblematic than what is laid down in this room. So the problem is that Statkraft is too detached and behaves then. Governments were concerned about this with energy recovery. It could take time to get a deal. But at the same time, we should be aware that if there is a potential in the powerful industry of about three eights in terms of recycling, this is of relatively large dimensions. I think what's important here is the motivation, that it pays to be energy efficient. Then it goes on long-term, and it goes on earnings. What would have been beneficial was whether the contract price for power could have just been reduced based on how energy efficient they were, and on the question of recycling. So it's about this being a transitional arrangement, a gradual transition to a market-related price. I don't think it's well and good, as expressed by the Council of State. This is linked to migration, but these societies have the power to be the most important migration resource. As the representative, Torny Pedersen, without power, would not have succeeded in the transition that has been made. Now I see that the president is with the club, so I'm going to finish.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e675	Some time has been spent in this debate on the part of the government parties to express gratitude for the fact that the Workers' Party has joined the main lines, while the Workers' Party is pleased that the Centre Parties and the Centre Government have joined the Workers' Party's proposal. Well, it could probably be an interesting polemic. I think, perhaps, that what the centre parties and the Labour Party in common should agree and be satisfied with is that we can adopt a regime that is robust and safe for the industry in a long-term perspective. I must nevertheless be allowed to make a comment on Bent Hegna's first post, which was packed with very large letters and among other things. indicated that the State Council had threatened the Committee with the EEA and ESA. I think it's a remarkable description, when the Council of State actually informs us of a reality that we have to relate to. And just like what the state council itself expressed instead: this is not something that we're fooling around with. It would be a clear neglect of the Council of State if in such an important area she had failed to point out the need to have a clean relationship with these questions. In this way, I find it admirable that the Council of States is precise and not to misunderstand in its opinions when a case is to be assessed against a regime such as EEA rules and any ESA issue. So says Torny Pedersen in his post, and it's been claimed before, that this is really a policy for shutting down the powerful industry. We have to reject that. What the government has presented is a scheme that is very well thought out. It is robust in relation to the long-term needs of industry, and it is necessary not to create unnecessary uncertainty, even in the interests of industry. And that's precisely because the government has pointed out that we cannot make too much dramatic changes to a matter that is so fine with the needs of the industry, but also in relation to the requirements set against the EEA territory and the EEA Agreement. It is a contractual arrangement that currently provides industry with the best opportunity for long-term planning and necessary conversion, while ensuring that they have the necessary power supply at the prices with which they can live. On that basis, the Grand Duchy and the majority today should be satisfied with the decisions taken.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e684	I will try not to help prolong the debate, but I must say the following: The centre party has claimed in several articles that they have not reversed the issue of the repatriation scheme. The facts are this: Last year, state councillor Arnstad said no, this year, government councillor Lahnstein says yes to making changes to the principles of the repatriation scheme. If it's not turning, then I don't know what's turning. But they may turn around so often in the Center Party that it's gone mad. The centre party agrees to change the principles of the repatriation scheme. Enough about that. The debate this evening shows that on this issue, the Storting cracks in all directions. We get what it's possible to do in Storting, as the situation is. The working party is not satisfied with the result we get, but as long as neither the government parties nor the right parties want changes for the better for the industry, there is little working party alone can do with it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e693	I would like to thank you for this debate and conclude that I am pleased that the Government is largely supported by its arrangement. I understand the frustration expressed by the Workers' Party's representatives in particular, and that Gunn Karin Gjul expressed by saying that we are bound by hands and feet. But it's against the serious backcloth that the EEA Agreement actually involves here, that we have to say clearly what it's not in doubt about is within the EEA Agreement. Torny Pedersen mentioned the ESA judgment in the employer’s fee case, which is the back cover that we also have when we are discussing this today. Therefore, my conclusion is not that the Storting cracks, as Bent Hegna now said. On the contrary, Stortinget has taken on board the fact that there are strong restrictions on what we as a national Parliament can give of conditions and that the Government has put forward a framework within the EEA Agreement, which is long-term and predictable and ensures jobs, especially in the one-sided industrial sites. I take a great deal of distance from the attempts to say that the Center Party undermines the right of repatriation. The right of withdrawal shall not be rocked. A lease means that the State may claim ownership and repatriation. In addition, the lease that is now presented here is embedded in ways that ensure that this is managed. It is also a point that the Workers' Party, as I understand it, will support leases elsewhere than in Saudi Arabia. So to the Eastfold case, as several representatives from Eastfold have mentioned, on the recovery of energy. Of course, we're glad that we're getting up projects that are profitable for recycling energy. We need to bet on both one-way and on recovery. I have understood that this concrete project in Sarpsfossen is a very profitable project, that it has received investment aid of 15 p.m. by NVE, and that someone has now been clarified the terms of the power contract. This should ensure that conditions are conducive to that project. Otherwise, of course, I agree that we are going to try to get combinations here, and that we are going to have plans as soon as possible, but I said in my post that the time was perhaps something button to get this to effect from 1 July 2001, which is the time when these contracts are going to apply. That's why I'm asking for understanding that we might need some more time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e708	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 4053]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e722	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4055]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e736	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 55 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 20 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e745	In Document No: 8:51 for 1998-99 the Landfill Representatives Hedstrøm, Alvheim and Nesvik promote the following proposals: ‘The decision requests the Government to assist in the continuation of the emergency medical response at the Askim hospital at the level per year. 1 January 1999 until the emergency notification based on NOU 1998:9. If urgent... Professional requirements for emergency medical preparedness are dealt with by Stortinget.» The Committee has submitted the proposal to the Minister for Health, who has provided the Committee with a briefing by letter dated 27 May of this year. The decision to pool emergency preparedness in internal medicine in Fredrikstad and Moss respectively was taken by the district council in Eastfold on 12 December 1996. It was then decided that the emergency medical response should be transferred from the inner east fold in the first half of 1999. The emergency medical emergency response from Ashim to Moss took place on 18 May this year. According to the Health and Social Plans for Eastfold, which have also been dealt with in the Regional Health Committee for Health Region 2, internal medical and surgical emergency preparedness must be collected at the hospitals in Moss and Fredrikstad, while the hospitals in Sarpsborg, Inner Eastfold and Halden must have an acute ‘basic preparedness’ and, in part, a comprehensive planned activity. Askim Municipality, the Hospital Committee and the Hospital Friends in Askim are concerned about the emergency medical offer in Inner Eastfold, and have contacted the county board in Eastfold about this. After contacting the county council about the questions raised in the enquiry, the county doctor informed me that she had not found it necessary to intervene. Nor have any episodes been reported to the county doctor after 18 May, that is, when the move happened, and until the current date. In the light of the above, the Minister of Health has found no basis for any initiative by the Ministry towards the county council in this case. The Committee stresses that the obligation of the county council to provide for the planning, follow-up and operation of institutions and services, including ambulance transport, under the first paragraph of Section 2 of the hospital law, is the responsibility of the county council. I assume that the respective parties themselves will make their views known, and will then be given more information about the Labour Party's arguments for not agreeing with the proposal. The decision of Eastfold County to bring together emergency preparedness is part of the work on better functional distribution between acute and elective activities. The organisation is fully in line with the Steine Committee’s recommendations in ‘The patient first!’, and similar functional distributions have already produced very good results in other counties. The Steine selection writes: ‘Our decentralised hospital services, with immediate assistance received in most hospitals, require a non-essential medical resource. This bonding of medical resources in emergency response is not very productive, and some of them could be characterised as wasted with resources. With a greater degree of centralisation of the immediate-help offer, medical resources could be channelled into productive elective work.’ The working party also attaches great importance to the integration of both the county council in Eastfold and the Regional Health Committee for Health Region 2 into such a solution. I am surprised that the representatives of the Progress Party will review the decisions taken by regional authorities. It is no less surprising that the Progress Party in the work of the law on specialist health services stressed the need for hospital owners to have a great deal of freedom to organise the specialist health service locally. It is therefore interesting that on the first occasion the party wants the Storting to intervene in local priorities. One of the most advanced in the functional distribution between immediate assistance and elective activities, and with very promising results, is Telemark, head of the Social Committee. Since 1997, the Central Hospital of Telemark has been divided into two parts. All immediate help goes to the main hospital in Skien, while the hospital in Porsgrund is converted into a purely elective hospital. In Porsground, only planned activities and outpatient clinics are currently being conducted. Now 25 patients are operated on per day. day, five days a week. There are no more deletions in the operational programme. The display from immediate assistance may concentrate Porcelain Grounds on production. The tranquility of the elective enterprise also offers very good opportunities for training and education, where in one day candidates can now assess up to 16 similar cases. It means more effective specialist education. Telemark features waiting lists in areas such as general surgery, urology, gynaecology, ear-nose neck and some plastic surgery are gone. Porsground hospital now supplies itself with neighbouring countries' waiting lists. Professor Truls Bjerklund Johansen, Head of Conversion at Telemark Central Hospital, has stated: ‘Competition for patients is in full swing and it is felt good to be ahead of this development.’ The size should not play on the public's fear of a weakened hospital offer. Rather, we should ask questions about what the Stortinget and the Government can do to maximise the success of reorganization in Eastfold.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e806	The Storting examines a proposal to ask the Government to contribute to the continuation of emergency medical preparedness at the Hospital Østfold Askim at the level per year. 1 January 1999 until the emergency notification based on NOU 1998:9. If urgent... Professional requirements for emergency medical emergency response have been addressed by Stortinget. We believe it is logical that the Stortinget should first deal with this report, which is expected in the spring of 2000, and which deals with the entire emergency medical chain in an overall context, before restructuring the local hospitals, for example. the hospital in Inner Eastfold. What else would be the purpose of the Storting to treat such an emergency message, if it does not have practical consequences in a positive direction for patients? I'm just asking. In our opinion, the municipality of Nordland has been more sensible than the municipality of Eastfold, where the treatment of somatic plans is being postponed pending the emergency notification and treatment of the Storting. This is a correct conclusion, because key leadership will be given for future emergency preparedness, which is an essential element in and significantly governing the hospital structure. For us in the Progress Party, it is incomprehensible and regrettable that the well-functioning Inner Eastfold local hospital is transformed into an elective hospital without full emergency response. In the past, local hospitals in Halden and Sarpsborg have had a similar fate. Could we just understand why! Firstly, the situation of the people of Inner Eastfold is clearly going to be worse when it no longer receives an emergency offer of proximity and availability. Moss hospital, which is now to have Askim's emergency functions, will not have the capacity to receive 2000 additional spaces from this part of the county. The ambulance service and increased transport time do not provide as good assistance or safety as before. Recent research has shown that the time factor for initiating treatment of many different disorders is crucial for survival and positive disease progression. This is not addressed by a strong centralisation of emergency preparedness. And in addition, if the ambulance service is not sufficiently dimensioned, as we experience in Eastfold, it can happen in periods of high traffic that patients with life-threatening injuries have to wait too long before they get ambulances. And secondly, the reason for the emergency response at the local hospitals is to obtain economic savings and more efficient production. But if you go to reports and investigations, you haven't found evidence that major hospitals are cheaper per person. treated patients than less local hospitals, even corrected for the severity of the treatment. Rather, there are indications that large hospitals can be more expensive. The reason might be that they're hard to control. The administration swells and can become like a grown head on a worn body. Nor does anything indicate that the quality of treatment is consistently better in large hospitals. In fact, they can treat several serious injuries and diseases, but in return, institutions are often so under pressure that there is less time to treat each patient with the associated risks of mistreatment and cleaning. And in addition, there are demanding and expensive shipments of serious sick people. NOU 1998:9 provides solid professional support for the maintenance of emergency medicine in hospitals of the size of the Hospital Østfold Askim. Experience suggests that a hospital of this size is well suited for medical emergency preparedness. Therefore, it is the progressive view of the Advance Party that Askim Hospital and the population are best served to maintain their preparedness. By continuing as before, until the emergency message is processed, the Stortinge is given an opportunity to assess and discover the realities, among others. on costs, efficiency and appropriateness. Meanwhile, state policies can add their experimentation with the hospital structure to a significant amount of millions on the shelf. I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party, included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e827	Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e830	The proposers in this case ask the Government to help ensure that the emergency medical emergency response at the hospital in Askim is continued at the level per year. 1 January 1999 until the Storting has examined the proposals which will be based on the 1998 NOU:9, the so-called emergency notification. It is claimed that the consistency of moving the emergency medicine from Ashim to Moss is not sufficiently clear to provide safety and safety preparedness for patients from Inner Eastfold, and proposers believe that government and accumulation must assume direct responsibility for management and intervention when, as it is claimed, ‘the conditions for sick people with severe pain and an acute need for treatment are not adequately met’. These are relatively strong claims. However, I have confidence in the supervisory authorities – in this case the county doctor in Østfold – that it would be intervened if this claim were correct. It is apparent from the Minister of Health letter to the Committee of 27 May that, throughout the planning of the collection of emergency services, the county doctor has been in constant contact with the county council and that, as the supervisory authority, she has not found it necessary to intervene. Nor have any incidents been reported to the county doctor in this context, including according to the Minister of Health. I therefore find it difficult to see that there is a basis for strong allegations of discharge and lack of security and preparedness. Otherwise, I will refer you to the rapporteur's statement. The small hospitals are an important part of our health care system, and they do a good job. The Social Committee has visited Østfold, and for my part I got a very positive impression of the work at Østfold hospitals. I find it particularly impressive that the results of resuscitation outside the hospital are. Now, the hospital structure in Norway is likely to be undergoing conversion, both due to medical developments and in the context of changes in, for example: carriage. As you know, Eastfold is not the county where the distance from hospitals or between hospitals is greater. However, the Christian People's Party in Eastfold County voted against the closure of emergency medicine at the Askim Hospital. The majority voted for it. The decision is made by the county council and the regional health committee supports the decision. The representative Hedstrøm shows great willingness for the Storting to over-test and control the details as well as the government as well as the filling. The Christian People's Party will not go into such a line. The task of big business is the broad lines of policy. County and local government have their responsibilities, and regional health services have their important functions. The Christian People's Party will respect valid political decisions both when we agree and when we disagree with them. We note that Hedstrøm and the employees' proposals involve distrust, not only to the county council, but also to the county board. This will not be part of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e856	Under the care of the people of Inner Eastfold, who have lost their emergency medical preparedness at the Hospital Østfold Askim, the Progress Party at Øystein Hedstrom has brought the matter before the Stortinget by promoting a Document No. Eight proposals. The people of Inner Eastfold, with local politicians at the head, have always struggled to maintain emergency medical preparedness. And honour be to them for that; it is lawful to fight for their cause! But after listening to the sentiments of the Progress Party during the demonstration outside of the Storting here today, I see this play more as part of the ongoing municipal election campaign than of creating security for the population. It's completely legal, too. But when the representative Øystein Hedstrøm in the Indre Smälenes newspaper on June 11 gives the impression that the proposal to move the emergency response back to Askim can get a majority, it is to ignore the facts and to create false hopes in the population. It is only the Progress Party that will vote in favour of its own proposal. SV, who is in favour of such a change, takes note that the decision is taken by a democratic majority. Although the Right agrees with the Advance Party that the County Municipality should be closed down and responsibility for hospital operations transferred to the State, it is still the responsibility and duty of the county councils under Section 2 of the Hospital Act to ensure the planning, follow-up and operation of the hospitals, and the county board, which is the state's extended arm, has the supervisory authority. As can be seen from the document, a decision was taken in 1996 in the county to move the emergency medicine at the Askim hospital to the Moss hospital by 1 July 1999. There is in no way an urgent decision that we are facing. The hospital structure in Eastfold has debated since the beginning of the 1980s. Eastfold has been known for its many hospitals in relation to other counties in the country, and also in relation to the population. The restructuring has led to five entrances to the Hospital Østfold, two of which are to have emergency receptions, Fredrikstad and Moss. In the context of the decision on such restructuring, a decision was also taken to extend the ambulance service to a high professional standard. As I have been informed, the ambulance service has been strengthened, so that it now has such a high professional standard. The ambulance service has also been strengthened to reach 60 pst. of the population of Eastfold within nine minutes. The distance argument is no longer present, if you can use such an argument in a small state like Eastfold. In addition, hospitals in Sarpsborg, Indre Østfold and Halden shall have an acute «basic emergency» and partly extensive planned activities. The restructuring adopted by the county council is in accordance with the adopted health plan and approved by the Regional Health Commission for Health Region 2. It surprises me a little bit that the Progress Party, which has opposed the decisions taken by the county, has not worked more actively towards the regional health committee if they have really believed that this is to the detriment of the population. I have to say that it is only after the decision has been implemented that you bring it in for Stortinget that I do not taste good. The rationale for the restructuring itself is to be able to obtain more efficient use of professional personnel. The prerequisite for providing emergency care to two of the hospitals is to be able to treat several of the patients waiting for treatment. Now there is not a strong need for professional staff to wait, but to treat patients instead. Eastfold is a border county to Sweden, and in a hospital context we can be happy about that. Swedish health professionals have increasingly remedied the lack of highly qualified health professionals, and they have also been the ones who have brought the stafette stick forward in emergency preparedness and kept it up. Today, for example, NRK Østfold reports figures from the Norwegian patient registry showing that Eastfold counties are the country with the most breaches of the waiting list guarantee. The waiting list guarantee is broken 50 times more in Eastfold than in the best state, which is East Agder. And I think this must be a cross of thought for the Advancement Party, which, of course, also wants the rest of the population to get what they need, that they are now giving priority to emergency services as high as they do instead of using the highly needed professionals to treat chronically ill people who also need treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e877	The importance and place of local hospitals in the Norwegian healthcare system has always been an important and priority matter for the Centre Party. We argued this view and fought for it also in connection with the treatment of specialist health services during the previous ageing period when the then government and Minister of Health Gudmund Hernes presented proposals for a significant functional distribution between hospitals in terms of elective activities and large emergency units. We have pointed out proximity and security as an important element for maintaining our local hospital, not least in those parts of our country where the distance factor is very important. With reference, inter alia, to: to Swedish studies, it is now pointed out in this case that there is no clear scientific evidence that large hospitals are more cost-effective than small hospitals. It is also doubtful whether the quality of patient treatment is better in large versus small hospitals. The last relationship has been a major discussion about, and that is also what should count most in our health policy planning and disposal — just to ensure patients the best treatment. The centre party has for a long time dared to raise these points of view – to some extent a strong response from both professional and political forces in health policy. We also know that the majority in the Central Party in Eastfold have claimed the same and therefore opposed the closure of the emergency medicine in Ashim and the transfer to Moss Hospital. This Decision was implemented on 18 May of this year and was therefore a fact prior to the examination of Document No. 8:51 for 1998-99 from the Progress Party. We in the Centre Party can therefore agree with the proposers on the matters of emergency medical preparedness and the need for closeness and security in that context. We disagree with the majority in Eastfold County Municipality in their handling of the matter, but we also disagree with the Progress Party, as they deal with this matter through their proposal here in Stortinget. The Progress Party has a strange form of work and attitude in which consideration of populist attitudes counts more than clean procedural procedures and consistent attitudes. The party is the party that, in some contexts, speaks hotly for local democracy and self-government; in other contexts, they will shut down local government units and leave everything to state governance. This last point seems to be not least the case in health policy. In this case, there will be a hopeless mix of state overgovernment of the legal decisions of a legally elected body through a magnificence against the district of Østfold. Is this Progress Party referring to the state takeover of the health and hospital services in Norway, where we at Stortinget are to carry out individual treatment of relatively detailed conditions in each state and make decisions at the head of local authorities? I believe to remember that just a few years ago, the Progress Party had a slogan: the future is not being adopted, it is being created. If this is what the Progress Party here adds, it is quite certain that it will create very unfair conditions for the future. The Progress Party has great faith in government governance of the health care system. In relation to the matter we are dealing with now, the state has been involved in the proceedings through the participation of the county doctor, and the county doctor has not found any reason to intervene in what has happened. This relationship also refers to the Minister of Health in his letter of 27 May. and concludes that, in the light of the information available to him, he finds no basis for intervention. Nevertheless, the Progress Party believes that action should be taken and that legally adopted decisions should be overturned. One may suspect the party of progress in this matter in order to promote this proposal primarily for purposes other than securing emergency medicine at Askim Hospital. From their own proposal, I will make two relatively strong claims: ‘Law changes that transfer responsibility for the treatment of county hospitals to a state financial liability outside the ordinary divided and fragmented healthcare system may be implemented.’ They also say, in their proposal for a decision: ‘When the following proposals are made, it is thus a subsidiary proposal based on the hopeless shortcomings of the Government and the majority of the population are responsible for health care in Norway.’ It's probably this that's the cat in the bag in this case more than the concern for the emergency medicine at Askim Hospital. For us in the Center Party, the question of emergency medical services at our local hospital and as close to the patient as possible is a big and important matter. But in this context, the views and sensitivity of Eastfold County are crucial. We agree that they should take the emergency message, based on NOU 1998:9, seriously and base it on their dispositions. It should and may continue to be a theme in the Eastfold county council and county council, for example. in this election campaign. The citizens of Eastfold must then be able to express their views through forthcoming county elections and support the parties that prioritise this matter. There is local self-government and democracy and proper treatment to create a good and proper health service. Should there be a rematch in this case, it must be in the arena where it belongs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e913	I have understood that the proposal put forward by the Progress Party has two different issues in itself. One is, does it make sense to maintain emergency preparedness at Askim Hospital, if you consider it in relation to the preparedness that has been provided and the change that has now come? The clear position of the SV throughout the whole process in the county of Eastfold and in relation to the regional committee has been that this makes sense. It would make sense to keep that preparedness at the local hospital in Askim, just as it makes sense for other local hospitals around Norway. SV has been quite clear on that matter, but has taken note that a majority believes otherwise. The second issue here is whether the Storting can review legal and democratic decisions in a county, and then convert it after it has been implemented. The reason for this would be that life and health were at risk, that the plans that exist here would conflict with it, possibly through messages from the county doctor, or that the department would find concerns about it. It doesn't describe the department. Had the ministry done so in a state like Eastfold, where the distances are small, it would be reasonable to do so in other parts of the country, where the distances are considerably greater. I can mention that my own municipality, Alta, which has a population of 16,500, has no hospital, and that it is 15 miles to the nearest hospital. There's no argument that you're going to wind up where you have well-functioning, good emergency services, but I'm just saying that there has to be an overall perspective on this. The overall perspective is totally absent from the proposals of the Progress Party. There's no concern about how the local hospitals work. I've heard the manager talk in different contexts about local hospitals, sometimes as a hot defender, sometimes very negligent about the problems they're facing, problems with recruiting professionals, etc. Then it has also been attacked when I have highlighted the need to have a distribution of medical resources to manage to create recruitment to those hospitals. In its alternative draft budget for 1999, the Progress Party has proposed a cut-off for county municipalities of DKK 4.6 billion. They propose a cut in the framework grant to municipalities in general of NOK 2.29 billion. The commitment of the progressing party here is just a matter of time, it's a game for the gallery without any credibility if you see this in relation to their budget proposals. I do not doubt that the Progress Party in the election campaign that is now to be held in Eastfold is actually also cutting it. It is in many ways sympathetic that this happens, because if one had had the opportunity to visualize in what way the Progress Party intends to stimulate the activity of local hospitals, take care of the emergency medical functions through framework grants, one would have seen that the party has the least credibility in the Storting in that regard. But they still manage to appear, as they did in front of the Storting here today, as if they are the defenders themselves and the conservationists of the local hospitals, while at the same time abolishing almost all subsidies linked to the county council and the possibilities of having a framework for further operations. So I think this is one of the most raw and reindeer things I've ever seen from the party after I came to the Storting, when it comes to cutting the popularity of the population in a slight way. I have to say that it would have been easy for SV also to land at the same position, support this proposal and apparently give some kind of impression that we should also clean up this matter. The point is that it is not the task of the Storting to review this type of decision taken in democratic bodies, as long as there is no evidence that life and health are at risk. So this cannot be documented here, as it would of course have been documented in every state in Norway. But what SV's going to do is come back strongly in connection with the emergency message, because we mean, and have always thought, that the local hospitals should perform that function, just as it is in the Haga committee's settings. I also hope that the Advance Party will participate in a completely different and far more serious way in relation to the proposed funding from SV, and from hopefully other parties in this room linked to the operating framework of the hospitals. For now the Progress Party is not willing to do so, and is thus in many ways involved in undermining the whole basis for the further operation of the local hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e928	Private proposals in Stortinget are allowed. However, there is still reason to question this proposal, a proposal that the Storting should override the county council and repeal the county council decision on the organisation of hospitals in Eastfold, as the representatives of the Progress Party do in this matter. That is because we should not forget that we are in an election year and that the election campaign is going on. What would have happened if the Storting had followed up the proposals of the Progress Party today? Firstly, the Storting would override local democracy, in this case the county council, to those degrees. Of course, a majority here in Stortinget doesn't want to do that – and it should just be missing. Secondly, this would mean that Eastfold County would have to get more money to operate. And there won't be a majority here in this Chamber, including the Advance Party, who will give $8 billion less to the municipalities and county councils than a majority in this Chamber does. We have treated the municipal economy for the next year earlier, and only the Workers' Party will give more money to the municipalities for the next year than the Government proposes. Thirdly, I must remind the People's Party that they have been behind budgetary conciliation in recent years. Last year, Eastfold gave 32 million to the county council. kr less for hospitals than they had expected. The hospital in Østfold does a good job and treats more patients than before. Increased patient treatment is the result of their reorganization, so that three hospitals must have an acute initial preparedness and planned activity, while two hospitals must have a full emergency response. This has made hospitals better use of the capacity of professionals, and they are now treating more patients than before. A total of 4,000 patients increased last year. That's great. These are also patients who suffer and need urgent treatment. I would like to commend the Minister of Health, through the Minister of Social Affairs, on this matter. Already during his visit to Askim in May, he stood upright. He probably disappointed the 70 listeners who had met, but said he would not intervene in the county decision. That the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party, together with the Workers' Party and the Right, also share in rejecting the proposal to reverse the move is good. And so it must be if we are to have local democracy. The party of progress and the Right is eager to bring the county council down and the state to take over the hospitals. I would just like to say that to those who are so afraid that the hospital in Askim will be laid down: If the state takes over the hospitals, I have no doubt that there will be little understanding in Stortinget that we will have five hospitals in small Eastfold, where the distances are so small that we can come from one outer edge to the other in just one hour. I believe that the organization we have now adopted at the hospital in Østfold will provide a very good hospital offer to several groups who need treatment. This applies not least to psychiatry, rehabilitation and cancer. With scarce resources, both in terms of money, doctors and nursing staff, we can't afford anyone running idle. That's why we have to organize hospitals so that those who need emergency help get it, but there are also many other groups that need help quickly. It's important that we don't forget these. Finally, as this is my nearby hospital, I have followed closely in this matter, and it is now just one month since the emergency response at the hospital in Askim was moved to Moss. Experience so far is good. We have built an ambulance service that is very good, with very well trained staff and equipment. Now lives are saved in the ambulance. A first-time emergency response on wheels — and a highly qualified, fully qualified emergency hospital within a reasonable distance — as it is now — will provide the citizens of the inner Eastfold with security of life and health in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e951	The speakers who have the floor hereafter have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e954	I can assure the Minister of Health that I will return to him the broad support given by Stortinget for his handling of this matter. Otherwise, let me comment on this proposal by saying the following: In his letter of 27 May of the year. to the Committee, the Minister of Health indicated that the county doctor in Eastfold had received a complaint from, among others. the spokesperson in the municipality of Askim on non-defensible emergency medical supplies for patients from the inner Eastfold. The complaint was filed on 18 May, the same day that the emergency medical emergency response in internal medicine was transferred from the hospital in Askim to the hospital in Moss. The emergency response in surgery was transferred in 1993. The complaint focused on four aspects: lack of bed capacity at the hospital in Moss, longer transport, lack of staff and a comprehensive assessment of these concerns. In a letter dated 20 May, the county doctor sent the complaint to the county council of Eastfold for information. Sjukehuset Østfold, Division Moss, has provided the following information in response to the complaint: A new addition to the hospital in Moss was completed on 26 July. and moved in on 9 August. Until this date, temporary solutions have been compensated to receive an increasing number of emergency deposits. Among other things, an agreement has been reached with the Moss Medical Service on the sharing of examination rooms. Heart monitoring capacity has increased by five beds, and there are opportunities for increased use of observation sites. The hospital confirms that in the first two weeks after the transfer, there has been no problem because of a lack of capacity on beds. The hospital indicates that Eastfold today has one of the best ambulance services in the country, and the shortest response time in the country when it comes to blue light printing. In modern medicine, the time from a case of illness arises, until ambulances with the necessary equipment reach the patient, more important than transport time. Elles points out that much of the population in the country has a month longer transport time to hospitals than the population in Eastfold. When there is a lack of treatment, the situation at the hospital in Moss, as in other Norwegian hospitals, is marked by a lack of nursing staff, but the situation is not worse than in other hospitals in Eastfold. A number of compensatory measures have been implemented: The holiday settlement period for the emergency departments is reduced from nine to six weeks. It will be useful for temporary workers in the busy homes. The permanent staff assumes and is ordered to be extra guards. Caretakers with a leading background will be added. After what has been said by the head of the department at the emergency department, the intensive care unit and the hospital department, the first two weeks after the transfer have gone without any major problems. There is no record of overcoating beyond what is normal. In view of this, there should be no reason to change the conclusion given by the Minister of Health in his letter of 27 May.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e989	I would like to correct a manifest misunderstanding, for the representative Nakkim claimed that the Progress Party had not stood on the barricades. I just want to say that the Progress Party has been standing on the barricades all the way, also in county council and local context in the case of local hospitals in the county – it is also Askim. Over several years, the political majority in Eastfold County has gradually built up the somatic units around Eastfold counties against the wishes of the population. First, emergency preparedness was removed at each of the local hospitals in Sarpsborg. Halden, Ashim and Moss will suffer in a little bit the same fate. There's no doubt about it. First you just have to spend a few million dollars in connection with new structural changes, as it's called. The ruling political regime in Eastfold County chooses models that are very precious to taxpayers and patients. Østfold has suffered and continues to suffer from decisions that help to destroy parts of the occupational environment in the local hospitals – mainly because the degradation of the local hospitals is taking place in part and in part, without a comprehensive hospital policy. The years of structural change have led to more hospital professionals leaving Eastfold County and Eastfold County after fighting a long battle for emergency services. Those who are left like the big losers in this are the patients and the population who lose their local hospital. The objectives of the Right and Workers' Party have been clear since the 1980s, although the procedure has been different: there must be only one hospital in the county, and a new central hospital must be built – costing what it will cost. It has cost Østfold taxpayers several million dollars to conduct hospital investigations, consulting exposures, various meeting activities, etc., which have been financed by cutting off health services. All reconstructions and restructurings over the years would have given many emergency departments in the county, and Askim and others would have released this if the different parties had taken up other solutions and re-priorities. Had it not been for the county to have received additional tax income from the county's taxpayers, the institution, with its large debt and accompanying interest, had collapsed for the longest time. I just want to say at the end: when it comes to over-management, it is the state policies that override the population, because the public's interests are not taken care of in this matter. The interests of the population will not be safeguarded until we receive a different funding, that we move away from framework funding and the money follows the individual patient.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1004	Let me make it clear, with emphasis on the fact that the Stortinget is responsible for health policy in this country. There can be no doubt about it. Why else should we at all concern ourselves with health policy in the Stortinget? The rapporteur was then able to refer to Porsgrund and Skien. It was really in love with me that he just picked it up. It was proposed to remove the emergency response at the hospital in Porsgrund, which was part of the central hospital, 7 km away. You had to save $8 million. kr by removing the emergency response in Porsground. The result was that you got 11 million. kr more in the costs of removing the preparedness in Porsground. So Porcelain lay there unprepared, with the problems it has brought over several years. Then there's someone who claims that we're not going to overrun the county council. In fact, what the county council has done in this case is that it has overrun the Stortinget, because the Stortinget made a decision for a few years ago that nothing should be done about the hospital structure in this country until an impact assessment of the proposal – at that time from Hernes – to remove the emergency response in a total of 32 local hospitals. There are some people who claim that the Progress Party uses this as an election gimmick. I agree that the proposal was reasonably late in the day when the decision taken in Østfold had already entered into force before we were able to deal with the matter here in Stortinget. However, it was timely for the proposal to come, and this may have implications for other county municipalities. The representative of Ballo says that the Progress Party at all does not have confidence in the political environment here in the Stortinget. No, unfortunately we have too little of it in terms of health policy. But the voters on the outside of this house have great faith in the health policy of the Advancement Party. For us, it's more important, and for patients, it's more important. If one argues that local hospitals of small size have problems getting professionals, then I have to say that it is precisely the retirement ghost we have had over the years, even in the case of Eastfold hospitals and other local hospitals, which have made recruitment of professionals very difficult in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1019	We have had a long debate on local economy before today. These include: about how county councils can afford to run hospitals, and it's about other important things for people. It's about care for the elderly, it's about school, about everything that makes life okay to live so that you get everyday walking around. What does the Progress Party say? Well, then there's an eternal drive to rationalize, remove, cut out, move, lay down, privatize and make everything cheaper. You don't have to protect all the institutions. Here things have to be different and cheaper. Get this fixed! Don't let the old freeze and stay as it is. Then I came in to listen to this debate. That's pretty weird. I now remember that a representative from the Progress Party was not long ago up and spoke particularly warmly for a sorrenprinter office in his municipality. It was very important. There it had to be. But everywhere else in the country you could move and rationalize, and it was only wasted money if you had this where people lived. I've been a state politician for many years, and I've been in hospital. It was a struggle. It was a struggle, because people wanted hospital services, they wanted more hospital services. They didn't want us to lay down a hospital, and we wouldn't. But if we had run with the frames the Progress Party has, I think at least there would have been no more than one hospital left in Hedmark – if there had been anyone there at all! If one were to follow the method of the Progress Party, that is to say, to use the price and leave the money with the patient, how many small hospitals in the community would not then be closed down? This is not related. Unfortunately, it doesn't. What makes me the most sad is that the Progress Party is fooling people in Askim with this policy. In all other areas, the Progress Party says that it's just laying down, moving, balding and choosing services to people, because it doesn't matter where they are or how it's just cheap. Then people get to travel, and they get to move -- there's no way. This I think is gross, because this is an important matter. I am absolutely sure that the Ashim community and politicians in Eastfold are doing the best they can to achieve this. And if the Progress Party really thought it would be a hospital in Ashim that would have the functions of which the Progress Party is occupied, the Progress Party could have had it done if they had given enough framework, so that the Eastfold County Municipality had a choice. Now, they don't have it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1030	It is clear from this debate and from the position that the Progress Party is standing alone in such an important matter as the health service in the inner East fold in this context. It's the Progress Party against the rest. We've been very used to that in our short party history. But it will always be so that someone has to pull up the loop and remove some old watering and some sacred cows. And then the other parties come after. In this case, the price-financing system is almost haphazard. It has been implemented in several countries with great luck, and patients have a choice. If you asked some of the hundreds of people who were outside the Storting here today, which hospital they would choose if they were given the freedom to choose, I think I can say for the very most of them – if not all – that the people's interest and the Reich Agency had paid the bill, and it wasn't the private wallet it came up to, these people would choose the hospital they've been so happy about. There can be no doubt that the service and safety have been reduced in the inner Eastfold since medical emergency preparedness has been moved to Moss. There have been representatives here who say that Eastfold is doing better in terms of security, service, treatment capacity, etc. But the hospital history in Eastfold has been an adorable story – I will call it a tragedy. We can ask the citizens, especially in Moss, Sarpsborg and Fredrikstad. Are Næss was inside the supervisor, and covered himself behind it. It's not many days since the emergency response was relocated. Here I have brought with me an example from yesterday's newspaper from the inner Eastfold: «Acute nightmare in Moss.Egil Korseberg had 38.2 in fever, was covered with morphine and tablets, and felt generally miserable when he was told he would be sent home from the emergency in Moss» Not even in an ambulance. His doctor says this is critical. There will be many examples, such as this, that I will personally take for myself in the election campaign and confront big business representatives and county representatives from the Workers' Party, Right, SV, Christian People's Party, the Center Party and more. So some words to Olav Gunnar Ballo, who was and kept 1st Maital in Ashim and said he would continue the local hospitals. At the same time, he should have told the people of Eastfold that he would vote against something he was in favour of.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1052	It's okay to have different opinions, and that's why there are different parties. It's part of democracy. But I want to ask some questions to the Progress Party, and especially after Hedstrøm's posts now: Isn't Hedstrøm afraid that he nerdy up under a perhaps unwarranted fear when one runs this case as hard as one does in relation to Eastfold and Ashtim? The representative Hedstrøm says it's very important that people choose the hospital they're "smooth," but there's also another dimension here, which I'd like to ask the Progress Party to comment on. Isn't it as important that people get the best possible qualitative help when they're sick, and not just that they get to choose the hospital that's closest? Isn't it as important that they get the most competent help they can get? Then I have registered – and I guess everyone here has – that the Progress Party has a different funding model for the hospital sector. One must also accept that there are different views on how hospitals are to be financed. But now it's like there's a majority here in Stortinget that has adopted a model with framework transfers. I'll find it natural that the Progress Party also relates to it, that is the necessary and natural consequence. Then I understood that the Progress Party has significantly less money to travel with to the local government sector and to the framework transfers. Isn't that gonna be a little paradox for the Progress Party? One must admit that there are also a number of other tasks to be financed through the framework transfers. So finally, if you don't want a regional governance level, you have to have some kind of government command economy. It has been said here before today that the Progress Party's approach to the management of the hospital sector is very much reminiscent of the five-year plans in the old Soviet Union, with detailed management from the state down to the lowest level. Is there anything that has shown itself 100 pst? failure, it's just that. [[The President clubs.]] I'd also like to ask the Progress Party to comment on exactly that, if they think--
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1068	Time's up! The President is now going to be strict in speaking time, as it seems that we're going to have a long night together.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1071	I will briefly be allowed to comment on a few things with the representative Eyeågen – I will try not to extend the debate too much. It is not the Progress Party that is so hard on this matter alone – it is actually the Hospital's friends in Askim and the people in Askim who run this case. So it's the users who are very busy keeping the hospital in their community. Then the representative Eyemaker will teach the Stortinget and the rest of us who sit here, that today we are funding our hospitals with framework transfers. Well, that's not the full truth. We have a shared funding system today, with framework transfers and effort-driven funding. So the system that the Progress Party stands for, and has been in place for many years, we have now introduced 50 p.m., so if the representative Eyeang is going to teach us, at least you should tell the whole truth.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1078	Øystein Hedstrøm has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1082	I'll follow up where Harald T. Nesvik ended. As far as input-based funding is concerned, the Progress Party has always wanted a higher price share in order to achieve more efficient production in our hospitals. And then to the Gunhild Eyecan, we "grow up under a possibly unwarranted fear." I myself have been in Eastfold County since 1987 and have always struggled to continue not only medical preparedness but emergency preparedness at all local hospitals. There are, of course, a number of reports within today’s system that show that you have nothing to do with — nor can you lose — centralising these functions. That is why I have claimed that it would be an advantage to wait until the Storting had dealt with the emergency message.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1087	As many have been involved here, Østfold County has now decided to bring together emergency preparedness to improve the functional distribution between acute and elective activities. This Decision is also fully in line with the recommendations of the Steine Committee – ‘The patient first!’. Instant help function in most hospitals requires very large medical resources. By bringing together immediate help functions, you will achieve better professional quality, better use of professional personnel, improved capacity and reduced health cows. The Progress Party has been involved here in Stortinget in adopting regional health committees, which will be responsible for drawing up regional health plans to be approved by the Ministry, precisely in order to maximise the use of resources for the benefit of patients. But the Progress Party is reviewing the decisions in the health region and in the county. They call for more state and less local democracy. As the Right Party, it is committed to giving hospital owners greater freedom to organise their specialist health service as they deem it most appropriate to provide the best possible qualitative offer to the population. Therefore, it is alarming that the Progress Party will now want the Stortinget to intervene and transform local, legal, democratic decisions. This is populism and not accountability. The party plays on the public's fear of a weakened hospital offer. But I have confidence in decisions taken, in regional health committees and in the fact that the county of Eastfold are responsible politicians who will do the best for the population. But Hedstrom hung the bell on the cat itself – it is a local campaign case that is the most important thing for the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1094	I underlined in my post that SV has always intended and still believes that emergency preparedness should be maintained at the medical departments of the local hospitals. We will continue that work, and we will follow up on the emergency message to have overall objectives related to it from the Storting. I have said that here from the pulpit, and Hedstrom has heard it, so I think there must be some honesty in the approach. So the question is, what does the Storting have permission to do? SV cannot see that Stortinget has no authority here to override the county municipality. So I want to say one more thing: it is clear that to the extent that Hedstrøm's example here, namely that one is sent home from a hospital with 38.2 in fever, is an example of gross indefence, it happens throughout the country gross indefence daily. This means that we need to organise the health care system in such a dramatic way that new local hospitals need to be built around a number of Norwegian municipalities, including my own. I have not seen any initiative from the Progress Party to create the health service in this way – on the contrary. The policy of the Progress Party is highly centralizing in its nature, endangers a number of local hospitals, and means that you get an accumulation of specialists where you have the most from before. It is the whole of the policy I think one should be concerned about. I feel with the man who is sent home, who does not feel able to be at home, and I hope that there are fewer such events. But when the Progress Party draws on those kinds of examples, maybe reindeer they – do what Hedstrom says and almost looks for light and light to find them – then to drive them out to the population, it is quite obvious that what you achieve is to create a population insecurity, a fear of serious events that will reinforce the conflict situation. I think it must be a point for big politicians to take responsibility inwards and say that we must try to find good solutions over time. We're going to look at the situation in relation to the emergency committee and try to calm down the population, instead of doing what Hedstrom here does from the pulpit, that's to reinforce anxiety, even where it seems unwarranted, in order to be able to score easily points in the forthcoming election campaign. I have to remind the Progress Party of a bit of audacity related to this question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1101	In my first post, I showed that the county doctor in Eastfold had asked Østfold County Council for information. I also referred to the hospital in Østfold, Division Moss, his briefing on his experiences from the first two weeks after 18 May. In addition, for the sake of order, let me tell you about something that I didn't get time for in the first three minutes of my life. The county doctor in Eastfold has not yet received any information from the county council on this matter, but they state that no complaints have been made about the operation during the first four weeks after the transfer. I found the further emphasis on the conclusion that the Minister of Health and I have come to. We have not found any basis for any initiative against the county in this matter from the department's side.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1108	I would like to start by asking a question to the representative Karin Andersen: When has the Progress Party proposed to shut down hospitals and institutions? If you make such statements, you get to document them. The majority use the Steine selection setting, 'The patient first!', as a starting point for this debate. The patient first is a flake. In this case, at least it's not the patient first, here's the patient last. In this respect, account must be taken of the budgetary balance, taking account of savings and, above all, taking account of professionals who will be on duty every 12 nights instead of every 4 in a smaller hospital. The representative eyeball is in on this with quality. There is no evidence whatsoever that the professional quality of the local hospital is worse than that of other hospitals. Then it is said that we create insecurity among the people of the inner East fold. No, we haven't created insecurity. It is the county that has created the insecurity, and the population has reason to feel insecure after emergency preparedness has ceased. Everyone and everyone who has put their foot in a Norwegian hospital and seen how this works. We have to control the details, says the representative Eyeågen, and refers to communism and the plan economy. No, we don't have a plan economy. That's what the Workers' Party has been doing for years. We stand for the release of hospitals, preferably in the form of AS, and a funding where the money follows the patient. It is only after we received input-based funding, on a proposal from us, that we have had a reduction in the waiting lists compared to what they were after 20-25 years of Labour Party rule.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1121	The Progress Party asks if I can prove that they have proposed to shut down institutions. I can't do that here and now, but I'm sure they do. However, the point is that the Progress Party in the local economy opinion, which was debated earlier today, has a note that there is an efficiency potential in the municipal sector of between DKK 10 and 15 billion through systematic use of competitive outsourcing. I do not know if it is the case that private companies should then be brought in in addition to the municipal and county services, so that nothing should be laid down or moved on. It's possible you think it's possible, but at least it's not worth making 10-15 billion kroner on it – so these things don't go together. In the Progress Party, they are far too tricked to point out an institution and say it should be shut down. No, what they're saying is that it's possible to save a lot of money by laying down a number of institutions and functions, but when something's going to be moved on, they pop up and defend it, and later they're like the only ones that care. But I don't think the Progress Party cares. The promotion party wants a piece price in the health service. It's very centralizing. For those hospitals that are large and can attract most patients, or who have most patients in their area, most of the money will usually be collected. And then they can develop new techniques, they can buy new machines, they can have good pay and working conditions for their employees, and they can evolve. To that, SV has said that there are probably some small hospitals being closed down with this single price system, and then the Progress Party has replied: «So what?» What do you do? After all, patients must be allowed to choose where they want to travel. If there are then a few patients who remain and who are perhaps happy in their local hospital and would like to keep it, it doesn't matter to the Progress Party. For the money, follow the patient, and where there are most patients, there will be hospitals as well. Where there are few left, there will be no hospital. So for this, you are sent home from hospital without being completely healthy. Yeah, that's right. We've been in many hospital debates about moving functions, and you've always been able to refer to some patient, who, if he hadn't lived 10 minutes from the hospital, would have been dead. And it's tragic. And it's a truth, it's like that. But if we're going to control health policy and how we're going to build hospitals after that, it must mean that no human being can live longer than 10 minutes from a hospital staircase – because something else is fatal. We all know that this is not how we can have it. So it becomes too easy when the Progress Party later on as if it were their general policy, with the piece price method that the Advance Party claims to provide people with the services they want where they live, should not lead to the closure of hospitals, schools and hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1132	I'm going to try not to be anything particularly instructive. I realize that those who are completely new to the game have a lot to teach me. I'm just interested in finding out what's really the Health Policy of the Advancement Party, because I can't fully appreciate it, so I actually have to ask the questions again. The input-driven funding is not 100 pst. It's a wish for 80 pst. in the Progress Party, but it is only partial. This has caused considerable concern, not least in Eastfold counties, I have registered, very much concerned, and the municipalities and county councils say they lack hundreds of millions of dollars. That's what we've been told about. I don't know if the Progress Party will comment. Then there's another thing, and that's that the Progress Party is so far the only party in this house, as far as I can see, that doesn't see the relationship between the community economy and the opportunities for community service. I would like to have a little comment from the Progress Party on that very side of the case – i.e. the tax bill and the weakest municipal economic structure of all the parties on Stortinget, but they will all get everything anyway. If the whole country is to have a hospital coverage like in Eastfold, we have to build many, many more hospitals, not least in North Norway. Could anyone comment on that? How does it relate to the municipal economic structure of the Progress Party, the financial framework, tax relief and tax relief? I just want to clarify how this relates. I think it would be very interesting if we could get an explanation of before we go to the municipal election campaign, so it's not just about the small hospital in Askim and the emergency room there. That's important enough, but we have to have the whole thing. How many hospitals do we need, for example, in Finnmark, in Troms and in Nordland – and in the West?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1141	In the last election campaign, I mean to remember an interview with Carl I. Hagen in the Address Paper. The local people he visited in the election campaign confronted him with the poor provision of services from the large community out in the districts. Then was Carl I. Hagen's answer: If it's so hopeless to live here, you get to move. Now Hedstrom takes the whole community in Ashim on their shoulders, and it's almost so I see the glory around his head when he says that the Progress Party is pulling up the loop, the Advance Party is alone, and the Advance Party is taking all this responsibility inward. I doubt whether that is so, and I explained that in my first post. What about the regime and democratic processes in this matter? How does the Progress Party pull up the loop then, and what kind of management and management systems will the Progress Party have for the future in terms of the Hospital Service? Should there be a totalitarian supremacy from the state, and where do local democracy and local views come in? How many local hospitals would survive with a pure Frp model with input-based funding? The single-price system will act as a centraliser, such as, inter alia: The representative Karin Andersen was inside. So Alvheim says that this case shows that here you don't put the patient first, but here's the budget balance you have to take into account. Yes, I have said that in many ways in the professional field here we agree with the Progress Party in some of the assessments and priorities. But we heard in today's debate on the local economy that the Progress Party said that there is a significant potential for earnings in the municipal sector. Where, then, is the money that the public is going to spend on health care? The Progress Party is now using input-driven funding as a model in its proposal — and taking it into account for the reduction of waiting lists. I think there are other factors too, including: the increase that has occurred in the total supply of resources to the health care system and that has, in total, caused the health care system, after all, to have considerably different working conditions now than just a short time ago. That also has to count. At least I do not give input-driven funding credit for what has happened to the waiting list problem and the reduction of the queues.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1155	Several have not asked for the floor, and the debate... the President must ask the representatives to come up here and report if they want the floor. [[Protests from the hall]] - Vidar Kleppe.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1162	I assumed that the president and the bishop looked down in the hall occasionally. I sat and waved my hand for a long time, and I'm sure the others can confirm that. This is an important matter. I would have asked for people to hear about Øystein Hedstrøm and the Progress Party who have taken up this proposal. It is a serious matter for people like this. It is serious when the bulk of the population will vote down a proposal to equate and see this in conjunction with the Steine Committee. Policy is to prioritise and to make decisions. The argument that, in this case, local democracy is so important, the process that has been carried out in Eastfold states, the decisions that a critical majority has taken in such an important case in Eastfold, is so important to the big business representatives who do not dare to take responsibility, who do not dare to vote in favour of this proposal, that they defend themselves behind it. That's what I and the Progress Party call disclaimer. We think it is an obligation for elected representatives to lift this matter and bring it into the national assembly when we see the treatment that people in the inner Eastfold have received in this area. We tolerate sitting alone in this room and voting for what we think is correct and correct. But what is regrettable is that politicians from other parties who have been on the pulpit in this case and who have party traps sitting in the district of Eastfold, who have begged them to follow up our proposal, see this in a context and vote for non-discrimination, do not listen to or listen to their own. In my view, it is in favour of increasing the political debate, including among politicians themselves. When we see that a Right-Rapporteur is standing outside of the Storting today and earnestly begging and begging his own to use common sense in this matter, and when one sees that the Right does not care about the action that is going on in Eastfold, the commitment that individuals have, it bears witness to what we in the Progress Party have been saying for a long, long time, namely that the politicians sitting in this Chamber have good reason to get out and talk to people at the grassroots – the usual woman and man.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1171	I am not going to extend the debate unnecessarily, but issues of responsibility for and trust in the healthcare system have been at the heart of this debate, and these are important issues. Øystein Hedstrøm believed that I covered myself behind the supervisor – that's certainly how he formulated it. Now it is well that the county doctor in Eastfold is a woman, and I usually have difficulty, for purely quantitative reasons, covering myself behind women. Nor should it be necessary in this context. It is the county doctor who has supervisory authority and the county doctor has not found any reason to intervene. This case has been known since 1996, also by the county doctor, but it has not been raised until now, possibly because there has been no local elections in 1997 and 1998. But the serious thing in this case is that if the description of misery carried out here by the Progress Party is true, this is not just a problem with the politicians who have taken a decision. If that's what the Progress Party claims, it's a very strong insinuation that the supervisory authority – in this case the county board – doesn't do its job, and I think it's very serious.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1179	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 4055]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1193	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 55 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 20 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1200	In the context of the 1999 State budget, the minimum income base for entitlement to sickness benefits from public security was raised from 0.5 to 1.25 G. There is no reason to hide that there was one case that several of us liked very badly. It is therefore all the more gratifying that the Government is already now in connection with St.prp. No 67 for 1998-99 indicates that it will return to the national budget of the autumn and change this ratio. The government itself assesses the change made in the 1999 government budget and concludes that the change was unfortunate for some groups. From this point of view, the Government states that this matter should be re-examined and that the minimum income base should be assessed in relation to income limits that otherwise apply in the public interest, for example. for the purpose of earning pension points and for the purposes of matrimonial supplementation. In view of this, the Government will make a downward adjustment to the minimum income limit for entitlement to sickness benefits in the 2000 budget. We are pleased that the Government is giving this signal right now, and that the bias that has arisen can be corrected from the turn of the year. This case applies especially to those who have part-time jobs, and perhaps especially to those who have low pay. Within this group, we will find, among other things: many women and also those with a disabled career who combine work and social security. It is important that these groups are provided with working conditions and conditions which ensure that they will and can continue to be in employment on the basis of their terms and conditions and that they have a social safety network that ensures their living conditions. The proposers of Document No. 8:54 from the Socialist Left in its proposal that the Government reconsider the requirement of a lower income limit in order to be entitled to sickness benefits in addition to the employer’s period. So this is going to happen through what the government itself has put forward in ours, and they'll see this in connection with other conditions that apply in popular terms. In view of this, the majority of the Committee recommends that Document No. 8:54 for 1998-99 by Mr Andersen, Mr Valle and Mr Gunnar Ballo, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, are annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1217	A media play by a political opponent is usually not constructive reading. But in the World Gang on January 11, 1998, Social Minister Meltveit Kleppa had a play that particularly pleased us in the Workers' Party. To the VG, she stuck: ‘In my time of the Council of State, it is entirely inappropriate to weaken the sickness pay scheme.’ There was a clarifying play to the country's employees, after the election campaign and government negotiations raised doubts about the central party's attitude to the sickness pay system. Unfortunately, the joy was quickly subdued when the draft budget for 1999 was presented. There, the same Social Minister, Meltveit Kleppa, proposed to take from 200,000 low-wage entitlement to sick pay from the population. The Social Minister received, through his proposal in Stortinget, with the support of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal to remove the 200 000 lowest paid people in Norway was perhaps the most unsocial proposal in the Bondevik government's draft budget. It does not say very little, because in the same state budget, the ageing effort was postponed by two years, the employment measures were proposed halved, and the proportions of health and care services were proposed increased by over 700 million. kr. All these unsocial proposals were also promoted some time after the Social Minister had concluded a chronicle in our country about Difference Norway by quoting Upperland: 'You must not tolerate so deeply the wrong that does not affect you!' The removal of the lowest paid entitlement to sickness benefits has aroused justified and strong criticism from the organisations in the labour market and despair among those affected. The victims are mainly women, low-paid women, often in heavy positions in the care sector, people who make a great effort, not least to implement the Stockholm Health and Welfare Action Plans, and who deserve a pat on the shoulder and not on the face. Norwegian Student Union has also pointed out that the decision has hit the students. According to Norsk Studentunion, the student loses a scholarship from the Loan Fund if he makes enough money to get sick. I have noticed that the opposition to the policies of the Minister of Social Affairs has also been very much in the ranks of the government parties. It was uplifting that the Christian People's Party national meeting rebelled in April, and asked its own government to reconsider the lower income limit in order to be entitled to sick pay. It is quite correct, as the Government writes in the 1999 revised national budget: ‘The change is socially unlucky for some groups.’ It is strange, therefore, that the Government does not already contribute to correcting the socially unlucky change in the revised national budget and through the current document proposal. But this is probably an expense to be pushed on. If one really had ambitions to quickly rectify the decision, there would have been a majority for such a policy in the Storting. I note that it has been more important for this government to have room for other matters. It expresses a deliberate choice and political priority on the part of the centre parties. In the Labour Party, we are prepared to get back the old roof, and we have prioritised it in our draft revised national budget. The government also says nothing about the level at which one plans to lay down. It's also a blur. It is therefore only to note, and regret, that the Government does not take the opportunity of unambiguously clearing up its position on the sickness pay scheme. I would also like to address the proposal on which the Workers' Party and SV are united in the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1248	Britt Hildeng has taken up the suggestion to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1251	SV together with the Labour Party on the proposal in the budget not to get the cut in this area that was being given. Unfortunately, the two parties do not form a majority in this Chamber, so it became a cut. A number of people, especially women, have been hit in low-paid and part-time jobs. Of course, it's positive, with SV's eyes, that you now seem to be able to get the system back in place. But SV sees it, in line with the Workers' Party, as regrettable that it could not have been achieved already in the context of the revised national budget. SV has put it in and suggested to the Workers' Party that the scheme should already be restored. Now that the government parties have gone so far as to say that they are still going to look at the scheme and put it in place in the context of the State budget, it must be expected that it is the original scheme to be put in place and that there is no kind of medium-term solution here, which does not fully restore the system that existed. I have to do a visit again – and it is quite natural – to the Advancement Party. The Progress Party cried crocodile tears in the context of the budget on this matter and expressed its very hard heart to see that this group was to be hit. Nevertheless, they expressed in their comments: ‘These members will nevertheless give their support to this proposal on the basis of the budgetary agreement with the Right and the Government Parties.’.» Then the Progress Party now comes back with a comment where they are very happy that you will now get this in place again: ‘These members are therefore pleased that the Government has now announced that it will bring down the minimum income limit for entitlement to sickness benefits in respect of the 2000 budget.’;» The Progress Party does not say one word about, is that if they had gone in and supported the joint proposal that is now available from the Workers' Party and SV, there would have been a majority already now, and then we would have had the arrangement in place. They had removed all the uncertainties. The point here is that the Progress Party expresses that they tried to exert pressure in the context of budgetary negotiations in order to put this in place. Now the Progress Party has the chance in this room to get the order in place quite immediately. The fact that they do not avail themselves of the possibility makes it necessary to ask questions about their budgetary observations and their credibility. Is it really the case that the Progress Party has put itself in the harness when they are not more concerned about this than they are now choosing not to support the proposal that exists here from the Workers' Party and the SV?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1272	During the budgetary procedure last December, a majority in the Grand Duchy, consisting of the Government Parties, the Right and the Advance Party, decided to support the Government's proposal to raise the demand for the minimum income of the population from 50 to 125 p.m. of the basic amount of sick pay. 200,000 workers lost their entitlement to sickness benefits. This applies primarily to women in part-time positions, disabled persons and students. Now, the government has admitted that this turns out unlucky, but pushes it forward by not considering any changes until next year's budget. There can be no reason not to correct this injustice when it is announced that it is a majority to reintroduce a lower roof, especially when looking at the history of opinions of central politicians from the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party. In the preamble to this case, the Progress Party refers to the fact that they failed in their budgetary work in order to obtain this year a majority in order to maintain sick pay for employees with a salary equal to 1⁄2 G and that they regret this. I would argue that it is incredible to waive the responsibility you have taken by voting for something you claim you do not actually mean. There were major newspaper headlines with Social Minister Meltveit Kleppa on 11 January 1998, where she announced that in her Council of State it would not be up-to-date policy to reduce people's sick pay. The government will focus on measures that focus on the working environment to reduce sick leave, she said. On November 14, 1998, Dagbladet wrote: Anne does not run out of sick pay. Undoubtedly, the then head of the Senterpartiet stated that it was not at all appropriate to touch the sick pay scheme in order to reach a budgetary agreement with the Right and the Advance Party. And the Adult Declaration mentions increasing sick leave as a means of monitoring the increase in sick leave and discussions with the social partners about measures in the current sick pay system, and in this context assess the economic situation of the long-term sick. At the national meeting of the Christian People's Party this year, they asked the Government to reconsider the matter, because the change would primarily affect weak and vulnerable groups. On 15 May 1999, the head of the YS, Randi Bjørgen, made an interesting contribution to the Address Paper, where she claims that this change in sick pay is contrary to the Equality Act. Yes, I don't know, but she had good arguments. 1997 figures show that 212,000 women and 68 000 men worked less than 19 hours a week. So the proportion of women is 75 pst. Medical care has been used as an argument by the Department for entitlement to sickness benefits. 56 712 is too small to live by, but it's maybe exactly the heads that are going to, so that a family has the finances to meet their obligations. In addition, there may be many reasons for having such a short working time and low income. Many have social concerns to take, with small children or older people in the family who need presence and care. It's very unreasonable not to get sick if you're going to get sick, or maybe have a seriously ill child. In such a situation, without sickness benefits, you become dependent on being completely depended on, and this is also of great importance to the marine life as well as to the economy. All with income above 21 400 kroner pay social security contributions. As small incomes alone do not give entitlement to pension credits, so questions can be asked whether this is also fair. Women in part-time jobs need their job, economically and socially. Taking such decisions as the majority in this year's budgetary procedure will restore the principle of dependability and reduce the status of women. Many people here have had high levels of cigar drive and ready-to-use. It remains for them to take responsibility for putting all the promises into practice. These parties protest for all the world, but willingly follow the path. To the comment of the Progress Party, I would say that it would have been more real and honest to the Norwegian people to defend their majority decision, rather than to speak as if they mean anything other than what they have actually shown by decision that they are doing. That's the decision that counts. That's what will reintroduce this right for a large group of low pay.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1304	Of course, the representative Ballo was on the move here again. He has now spent the whole day today – probably because of the SV's lack of influence in Norwegian politics – trying to put the Progress Party in the light that it is the Progress Party that is the irresponsible. He's been trying it all day. It is clear from all the parties in this room that you have entered an election campaign. The first one I want to make a little comment on was the last speaker, the representative Gravdahl. When she says that the Progress Party is protesting – or you're protesting for the whole world, but you're following the path – it reminds me of a small matter that we had here too soon back, the Patient Rights Act. The working party went high on the track in the newspaper interview to legislate on the right to treatment. Then you run some negotiating meetings, some histories and slopes, and suddenly there are so many restrictions in it that there is no longer any right to treatment. So I think the Workers' Party should go quite quietly in the doors. But it is right, as the representative Ballo says, that the Progress Party gave its subsidiary support to the government's reworked draft government budget. We got a lot into that budget, but not enough. That's what the Progress Party thought was sad. But as we write in our notes, the Progress Party failed to reach an agreement to maintain the sick pay. But we also do not think that when we are about to deal with the revised national budget, that is where we might have to take that rematch. That debate will be taken into account with regard to the State budget. And I would like to remind you that the Council of State has announced in the revised national budget that this will then be taken up again for consideration, and the Progress Party looks forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1311	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1314	The 1999 budget was a tough job. Different estrological relationships, both in the Norwegian and international economies, made it necessary for the Government to propose large savings. It was necessary to discuss and propose measures which, in a more common budgetary situation, would not have been addressed. The government proposed a total of 9 billion dollars in savings to bring down the interest. With today's interest rate cut, we can once again rejoice that we're on the right track. We knew that the different budgetary measures would be known by many. I was happy when our budget was presented, that the wages were mainly safe. I was also pleased that there were many other measures that we failed in the tough process yet had been given room. In the case of the upscaling of the sick pay limit, it is appropriate that the Labour Party had gone ahead and shown its way through its 1996 proposal to change the minimum income limit for daily allowances. After the decision that was taken in a number of cases, the legislation applies so that the daily allowance limit is 1.25 G «in the present time», i.e. from the time it is taken to become free, or an average of 1 G in the last three years. Now, the Government has announced a downward adjustment of the sick pay limit from the year 2000. I feel even more. Reidun Gravdahl's reference to the limits on the payment of social security contributions. We have pointed out both the legislation in relation to the ignition of pension points in the population and the support supplement. It's natural to see all of this in context. I note that when the Government comes up with its proposal, it can be expected to support it widely.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1325	I'm very glad that it seems that there might be an order of this eventually. But it's sympathetic, and I don't think it got particularly better after the state council's posts now, where she claims that taking sick pay from the very lowest wage has helped bring interest rates down in Norway. It seems to me that I'm quite tired. In addition, a letter has been received from the Ministry stating why they have taken the sick money from those who earn the least. That's because they basically have too little to live off! It seems quite special from a government that has said that it wants to do something about the differences in the country. I think this was one of the saddest proposals adopted in the budget, one of the most unfair and unfair. They are paying social security contributions for income above NOK 21 000. So they must not share in the rights of all peoples. They're being deprived of them, uncertainly for what reason. Because they're women? Because they have too little to live off from before? I've never been able to get any explanation for that. Some say that this is voluntary part-time. I guess it's never been like that to be punished for having a small job, if that's what you want. In addition, we have adopted a number of reforms here, we have a relatively high level of health care, care for the elderly, etc., which depend entirely on part-time workers. It is perfectly admitted that someone will go into such small, poorly paid jobs. It's inconvenient, too. And then they're going to be deprived of the rights, when we're totally dependent on them! We should get on our knees and say thank you for doing such jobs. Instead, we pay them this way. Finally, the Progress Party: They talk about SV being so keen on this and on other things because they have so little influence on Norwegian politics. Yeah, we've seen how it's been with the influence when the Progress Party has gained power. This is one of the results. Another result is that the proportion of disease was increased by 700 million. kr. A third result was that those who served the most received tax credits. I would like to have attended the negotiating meetings and looked at when Carl I. Hagen sat at the negotiating table. Did he show muscles on behalf of the sick and on behalf of those who had a very small position, and who would lose their wages? I am sure that if he had done so, Bondevik would have stood up and blessed both Hagen and the day and thanked his creator for having got a good cause. But they didn't. They used the muscles to give to those who had the most, and take from those who had the least. I think they could have manned up today to agree to give them back the money. I think it is a shame that Stortinget cannot do it already today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1341	Harald T. Nesvik said in his post that today I have tried as well as I have been able to draw a picture of the Advance Party as a grossly irresponsible party. It is possible that I have tried it, but I think those who have done it most successfully are the party itself. I am very pleased with the reference made by the representative Nesvik to page 27 of the alternative budget of the Progress Party, where 25.6 billion were obtained in tax havens. When you say that SV has placed itself on the sideline and is dissatisfied with it, I think it becomes quite pointless in a case where the Workers' Party and SV stand together, and where the Progress Party is actually sitting on the tip. They say that they want a change here, but then you'll hear from the representative Nesvik that they think it most appropriate to take it in the context of the state budget. In view of the previous case in which the hospital was discussed in Askim, I respectfully feel that it is a rather pathetic approach if the commitment of the Progress Party was really to be as great as they say it has been in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1350	I have noticed that the State Council of Kleppa has a review melody. Every time she defends an unpopular proposal, she refers to something the Workers' Party has done, and my question to the Council of State is: When are the Council of State and the Bondevik Government going to take responsibility for their own decisions? The daily allowance scheme has very little to do with the sickness pay scheme, just so it is clear. It's quite another thing to be completely without rights under long-term illness. It's a terrible state, and so the center part has gone in for it with open eyes. But it was not informed. We received a large volume of material from the Ministry of Social Affairs with information on what they proposed in the budget for the current year. And it says that the sick pay goes on. But that did not result in correctness, so I called LO and asked how they saw that 200,000 people were being deprived of the right to sickness pay. They hadn't discovered it, because it wasn't in the information folder that came from the department. But now they have discovered it, and they are as shaken as the Workers' Party and SV are about this matter. With regard to the Advance Party, I would say that it is quite remarkable that they cannot deposit this money now. They act quite independently, as far as I have seen in most other matters. But it is not certain that there are these weak groups, where a large majority are women with poor outcomes, which are the highest priority for the Progress Party. We've noticed that, and I think the Norwegian people will notice that too.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1359	I could imagine asking some representatives of the majority what they mean by what is in one of their majority comments. You refer to a letter from the Government so that it is possible for the Council of State to respond to it. It says that they believe that changes have been unfortunate for some groups. What does that mean? Do you think there are any special groups that have been hit by this, that you might think of looking at, or is it actually everyone who has lost that right? Shall we now begin to divide people who have so little income, into different groups – some will get few and some will not get? It may not be what's meant, but it's very hard to understand what that means. Then it also says that the minimum income base “should be assessed in relation to income limits that otherwise apply in popular terms, for example, for earning pension points and in relation to spouse supplements.” I don’t know if I’m a little anxious, but can it never be that the government intends to see if you’re married or not, when you’re going to get the sick money back if you earn so little?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1371	To the representative Karin Andersen first. I assume that the plural comment goes back to the text as it appears in the revised national budget. Changes have been shown to be socially unlucky for some groups. I believe that the representative Karin Andersen and I want to be a few that there are different reasons why people have a part-time position and also different accumulated income. It's by no means my opinion to go in and evaluate different groups closer. Let's be clear. What the Government has announced here – and we are at it – is a downward adjustment of the minimum income limit for entitlement to sickness benefits in relation to the budget for the year 2000. So Karin Andersen's representative showed that he was able to light up pension points and add up to his or her spouse. In both of these cases, the limit is 1 G. I myself said in my first post that I thought it was natural to see this code in conjunction with the payment of a social security fee as per. the date is 21 400 kroner. Then to the representative Gunhild Eyeman's question. I understand that she does not like to be reminded of the changes in the daily allowance basis, which was adopted in the Stortinget with a large majority. There is no doubt that there is also someone who today finds it difficult that the limit is now set where it is. From my point of view, it was an attempt to explain that we have seen these two legislations in context, but I would like to stress that the Government accepts responsibility for the proposals presented by the Government. We had a tough budgeting process, we had to propose savings of the size proposed, of a total of 9 billion kroner. We're now notifying change in some areas. In this area, we are notifying a downward adjustment from the budget II in the context of the 2000 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1380	The regulatory time is running out. The President will propose that this meeting be extended until the current map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1385	I would like to follow up the question put by the representative, Karin Andersen, on the majority remarks, where, among other things. it reads as follows: «For this purpose, the Government will make a downward adjustment to the minimum income limit for entitlement to sickness benefits in the 2000 budget.» I would like to ask the Council of State: does this mean that the Government will make a proposal to go back to the previous system, i.e. to 0.5 G, or can it lie somewhere between that and the solution you have today? I would also like to ask the representative, Mr Nesvik: will the Progress Party break any cooperation with the Government on the 2000 budget if the minimum basis for entitlement to sickness benefit is not proposed to be changed by the Government – and I believe that this changed to the level it was before 1 January 1999 – or the budgetary agreement would mean that the Progress Party would have to vote against a proposal they are in favour of once again?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1397	I would like to answer the representative of Skogholt's question. Earlier in this debate, I have been confronted with a quote from the VG. This was said in a situation that turned out to be completely different from when the budget for the coming year would be laid down. This means that the answer to Mr Skogholt's question about where to put the limit now must be that it is natural that the budget for 2000 will be alerted, as has now been said in the revised national budget. I register the broad deal that it seems to be in this room, to adjust the limit back to 0.5 G, and I will of course bring it with me in the further budgetary work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1406	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 4055]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1420	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose to allow the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1431	On 16 February this year, in an interview with Mr John Alvheim of the United Kingdom on drug policy, ten proposals were put forward by Mr Gunhild Eyeågen on behalf of the Workers' Party and three proposals by the inter-pellant on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposals were forwarded to the Social Committee for consideration following a recommendation from the Presidency, and it is the position of the Social Committee relating to these matters that the Stortinget has now received. The Social Committee agreed at the final reading that all 13 proposals, with the comments of the Committee, should be submitted to the Government without any vote today in the Chamber on any of the proposals. I note with some amazement that the Progress Party, which agreed with such an approach in the Committee, is still promoting proposals for voting today. I expect that they themselves will later give a reason for that. Proposal No. 1 deals with prevention, with a request from the Government that work be done on a cross-border basis, with cooperation between the school health service, the police, the school, the PP service and child protection. The Committee agrees in its comments on the importance of coordinating the inter-disciplinary and inter-territorial cooperation efforts. As regards proposal No: 2, which deals with school health, the Government is encouraged to ensure that the school health service is given a more central role in the prevention and social work of children and young people, among others. by building up parental competence. The Committee here expresses the need for stronger formalised cooperation between school, parents and the health sector, with the support of the police. The party of progress points out in a minority note that if child protection is incorporated into that work, they consider it to be unfortunate. [[Ballo]] As regards proposal No: 3, it deals with methadone-assisted treatment, and the government is asked to ensure that treatment is done nationwide. A minority, consisting of the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Centre Party and the SV, sees the intention of the proposal taken care of through the escalation plan described by the Social Minister in reply to the Committee, dated 15 March 1999. The Committee stresses collectively that methadone treatment must be considered as a last resort and only after testing for other treatments. All batches, with the exception of the Workers’ Party and the Advance Party, stress that the age limit for methadone users should be kept high and that methadone treatment should not be an alternative to treatment for a drug-free life. The majority, consisting of the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right, refer to the decision of the Stortinge in June 1997 during the treatment of the drug notification, and otherwise ask the Ministry to grant grants to each state, so that real treatment provision can be established as soon as possible. They also stress that shelter dwellers should also be able to receive such treatment without having to move out of shelters. Proposals Nos. 4 and 12 address the initiation of buprenorphine treatment, for example Subutex, pending methadone-assisted treatment. A majority consisting of the members of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party are asking the Government to launch a treatment offer with buprenorphine as soon as possible. The minority, the other batches, i.e. the government parties, the Right and the SV, believe that experience in the use of buprenorphine must first be gained through the pilot project to be launched before a final position is taken to a possible general approval and prescription. With proposal No 5 asked the Government to ensure that municipalities carry out monitoring of heavy addicts and that action plans are drawn up. The Committee endorses the intention of the proposal and also supports the social minister's call for each municipality to draw up drug policy plans and plans for each drug addict, including those who are not undergoing institutional treatment. In proposal No 6 asked the government to establish outreach health teams and low-threshold health services for drug users in the larger cities. In her letter to the Committee, the Council of State wrote that she had withheld funds in the year’s budget for strengthening these offers and that she would have a meeting with representatives of the relevant municipalities to discuss such measures. The majority of the Committee endorses the proposals outlined in the letters of reply of the Council of State. Proposal No. 7 refers to an investigation of injection rooms staffed by health professionals. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the members of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, requests that the investigation be based on the possibility of a probationary system in the case of spray rooms. The other batches underline the many professional concerns about the establishment of injection rooms and see a low level of health provision as one of the most important measures to reduce overdose deaths, and therefore strengthening that offer must be a more appropriate way to go. Proposal No. 8 refers to the price of first aid related to overdose. In this note, an overall committee underlines that the housing sites are poor housing for vulnerable groups and that the Government should take the initiative to develop a hygiene standard for the shelters. In its letter to the Committee, the Council of State referred to the experience of the Municipality of Oslo with a course for hospital staff and would encourage the municipality to inform about the measures already in place, so that this knowledge can also be used by other municipalities with hostels. The Committee took note of this. In proposal No 9 Calls on the Government to organise work on overdose deaths in line with the organisation of work on epidemic-like conditions with fatal outcomes. The members of the Government Parties, the Right and the SV point out that it is not appropriate to adopt an approach to overdose deaths as in epidemics, with few, if any, similarities between infectious epidemics and overdose deaths. The majority, consisting of the members of the Labour Party and the Progress Party, have not, in their comments, come up with an approach such as that of epidemics, so that it is unclear whether the proposal has been accepted by the Committee. Proposal No. 10 concerns the creation of special book collections for vulnerable groups. An overall committee points to the fact that the Stortinget has asked several times for an evaluation of the public and private supply of drugs services, stressing that it is important that such an evaluation is now carried out and that it is submitted to the Stortinget. The majority of the Committee, with the exception of the members of the Progressive Party, calls on the Government to motivate the municipalities to make varied housing offers, including special book collections for disadvantaged groups. In addition, SV expresses the desire for an official authorisation system for institutions for drug addicts as part of their quality assurance. Proposal No. 11 refers to the transfer of primary responsibility for response to overdose deaths to the Department of Health. The Council of State argues in its letter to the Committee against this, and the majority of the Committee – all except the members of the Progress Party – subscribe to the assessment of the Council of State. The Progress Party, which is the proposer, remains committed to its assessment that such a transfer of responsibility should take place. As regards proposal No: 12 was mentioned together with proposal No. 4 associated with Subutex or buprenorphine. Proposal No. 13 concerns the development of a new model to review the capacity and need for treatment provision in accordance with newer and modern treatment principles, in cooperation with the Norwegian National Council on Narcotic Drugs. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the members of the Labour Party and the Progress Party, supports the proposal. The Committee also refers to the letters of reply of the Council of State, which state that the Ministry has set up a working group to look at the overall daily treatment offer. An overall committee has followed the Council of State's call for proposals to be submitted. I assume that the Progress Party itself will explain why they have changed their conclusion after the committee's release. I see that there are 2 minutes left of speaking time, but it's been a long day, and I'm not going to extend it further.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1482	Two years ago, on 22 May 1997, the size of the population had a wide-ranging debate on drug policy. It is important to bear this in mind, as the 13 proposals put forward today by the Øyågen and Alvheim representatives on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Progress Party in the Interpellation Debate on 16 February of this year are being examined. In this context, let me also mention that the Stortinge addressed the action plan for reducing drug use on 1 December 1998. The size continues in interpellation debates, question-time questions, etc. gave a lot of attention to this topic. And that's very important. I also find it appropriate to stress that our efforts need to focus to the greatest extent on prevention and to make drug users substance-rich. It has to be our primary task. The 13 proposals that were promoted on 16 February then deal with prevention and treatment for heavy addicts. Cross-border cooperation, both central and local, is an important priority than today. Interdisciplinary cooperation, e.g.: between school, police, child protection, must not be hindered by rigid legislation. I hope the Council of State will take the necessary initiative to ensure optimal cooperation. This will ensure the best results. I am aware that the Council of State has entered into cooperation with several departments and hope she will include more, for example. the Department of Education. Coordination of local inputs from different levels of administration will be essential for the delivery of the prevention offensive. The Committee would like to oblige municipalities to draw up a local action plan to allow for cross-border and coherent action. It is also important that the school, especially the secondary and secondary schools, be upgraded for prevention purposes. We need stronger formalised cooperation between school, parents, health and police. Upgrading and strengthening the school health service and the PP service are a necessary prerequisite for a health perspective to be given a central place in prevention. All secondary schools must have access to a well-developed school health service. The majority of the committee wants the school health service and the PP service to be provided with funds from the psychiatry escalation plan. It is necessary for each municipality to draw up real drug policy plans and plans for each individual drug user, including those not undergoing institutional treatment. If the monitoring of heavy drug users is to become a reality, municipalities need to have low-threshold services and measures that can make contact with different environments. The municipalities will then also have an overview of the individual abuser and his/her help needs. Unfortunately, we have too few emergencies and detoxification sites. Unfortunately, some institutions do not accept users until they are detoxified. It is important to have an available offer when drug users are motivated for treatment. Many drug users find that we lack good aftercare after the end of institutional treatment. Strengthening the provision of health care to the most deprived drug users is important. Low-threshold health services are already established in several cities, including by means of State resources. I have also registered with pleasure that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health granted a further 3.9 million yesterday. Low-threshold health services for drug addicts in a further 12 municipalities. In May 1997, during the treatment of the drug notification, the government decided to grant access to methadone-assisted treatment to all those meeting the criteria. Methadone-assisted treatment is an action to improve the quality of life among the most heavy drug users and to reduce the number of overdose deaths. We have many people in line for methadone-assisted treatment, and the measures must be directed to the whole country to a far greater extent than they have so far. The treatment offer has to become nationwide as soon as possible. In some municipalities it is difficult to get doctors to take responsibility for this treatment offer. I hope the Department will take a quick initiative to hold information meetings on this treatment plan for the doctors concerned in all the counties, as well as to establish incentives in the counties. It is important to follow up on methadone-assisted treatment with the provision of drug-free housing, employment and education services, etc. The number of committees also asks the Ministry to consider granting grants to each state, so that real treatment services can be established as soon as possible. I have registered that heavy addicts who have resided in care-based institutions, such as Fredheim shelters in Hedmark, are not offered methadone-assisted treatment without relocating the institution. The majority of the Committee calls for this practice to be changed. The Committee wants the Government to start a treatment with buprenorphine as soon as possible. I suggest that from a professional point of view it is claimed that buprenorphine is very suitable for those on the waiting list for methadone-assisted treatment. The majority of the committee assumes that buprenorphine may be prescribed by interested general practitioners under the guidance of drug specialists. It is of course a prerequisite that the medicinal product be used as part of a treatment and with the necessary follow-up. On behalf of all heavy addicts seeking an alternative to heroin use, the Committee of the Regions calls on the Council of State to contribute to this possibility becoming a rapid reality. I also hope that the Department will assess the possibilities to extend today's methadone criteria to younger addicts with shorter heavy drug careers in opiates than 10 years, as requested by the Committee. The proposal to investigate the establishment of injection rooms with health professionals is probably the most controversial. The majority of the committee requests that the investigation be based on the possibility of a testing scheme. Overdose deaths have not been recorded in the injection rooms in Frankfurt, but the auxiliaries came into contact with approx. 35 pst. several addicts, who were previously unknown to the auxiliaries. I hope the Council of State will contribute to a rapid investigation, and I am pleased that a unanimous committee believes that the shelters are a poor housing for vulnerable groups. These people too deserve better living conditions. We cannot be aware that many people have no housing offer at all. In this context, I will refer to the treatment of Innst by Storting. S. No 100 for 1998-99 on housing for young and disadvantaged people, and hopes that the Government will motivate municipalities to provide varied housing services, including special book collections for disadvantaged groups. Over 1,000 people have died of overdoses in the last six years. The number would have been much bigger if we hadn't had a very good ambulance service. This is no longer just an Oslo phenomenon. In 1998, we recorded more overdose deaths outside Oslo than in our capital. The majority want this challenge to be addressed as a health challenge, as has been done in other countries. This must also be done in Norway, although the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, through the Social Services Act, should continue to have the primary responsibility for drug users and drug prevention. The majority of the Committee would like the Rusvern Council in Norway to be more closely involved in the preparation of a new model to review the capacity and needs of treatment provision according to newer and modern treatment principles. The representatives of the Labour Party have strongly considered asking for a substantive examination of the proposals, but we have recorded that the Social Minister has signalled a positive attitude towards most of them. If, on the other hand, it takes a long time to evaluate the proposals, or if the majority comments are ignored, we will soon be re-voting the matter to the Stortinget. Let me finish the post by commenting on the proposal of the Progress Party. We agreed in the committee not to deal with the proposals, but to send them to the Government for an early follow-up. I would therefore ask the Progress Party to convert the proposal into a transmission proposal. It would be very unfortunate if this proposal were to be voted down. It will, of course, give the Council of State a signal not to give priority to this action.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1551	Like the representative of Skogholt, let me say that I am very pleased with the press release available, that significant sums of money have been paid out to 12 different municipalities in terms of low-threshold health services for drug users. In fact, I would like to begin by thanking the Social Minister for the willingness she has shown to be open to new ideas in the area of care in general and the use of drug treatment in particular. I refer then to the revised national budget where funds have been spent in this way. When the Social Committee chose to submit the proposals, I see it as a purely technical solution to a somewhat unusual procedure, with the Committee having for consideration 13 individual proposals sent directly from the Storting to the Committee. This in itself was an unusual procedure in the social committee. In the present position, each lot has, in large measure, the same comments as the batches raised in the inter-pelling debate of 16 February 1999. I would therefore recommend to the Government, and in particular to the Minister of Social Affairs, to look at this particular case of transmission, which deals with a particular problem area, namely the prevention, treatment and follow-up of drug users. I would also like to ask that the setting be given greater importance and weight in the department than is usual in the case of transmission proposals. The various majority comments should mark the Ministry's document which is to be submitted to the Stortinget. In this context, I am thinking in particular of the announcement of the quality of our care services, which the ministry has announced will come in autumn 1999, if not before. During the inter-pelling debate on 16 February, the Minister for Social Affairs stated that a working group had been set up, among others: to look at the total daily treatment provision in the country, and that this work committee was to give up its position and finish its work before the summer. In a letter to the Social Committee dated 25 March 1999, the Minister for Social Affairs stated: ‘The Group shall conclude its work by 15 June 1999. The first of the three partial reports was delivered on 9 March. I will consider how best to follow up these reports. In this I will include input from all the key actors in areas, of course also the Council of the Russian Federation in Norway.’ However, I have received a hearing opinion dated 7 June from the Board of Directors of the Rusvernet in Norway, where the criticism of the work presented is very strong. I allow myself to quote the following from the Board's opinion: ‘The Board strongly regrets the tight time frame provided for the meaningful work of the working group, the poor composition of the group in relation to the representation of the key professional environments in today’s drug field and the limitations of the mandate that are throughout the report.’;» And on the other hand, ‘The Board strongly regrets that the report is based only on group members’ own assessments and experiences from the drug field. Furthermore, it is worrying that much of the data base is made up of inadequate and, to some extent, incorrect information, mainly obtained by telephone from the county authorities' case handlers in the field of drugs.» And finally stated from the Board of Directors: ‘The working group has also had limited medical competence. For example, the only doctor associated with the group has withdrawn from the work without being replaced with the corresponding competence.’ Another important point of appeal from the Board of Directors of the Rusverket is that the health service has been dealt with outside the mandate and without information from the health service, i.e. is not related to day-to-day treatment and that the assessments made are again without an adequate data base. Nor is there any evidence that the group has obtained health information during the evaluation of the health service. For the Council, it will be an important issue that the provision of health services must be strongly central and high priority in drug care. A general criticism in the Hearing Opinion of the Board of Directors of the Rusvernet concerns the lack of data and evidence for the assessments and proposals suggested by the sample. Finally, the Board of Directors states that: ‘The Board would stress that the provision of health care to drug users should be subject to greater efforts. The figures for overdose deaths, alcohol-related injuries/diseases/deaths and the estimated high use of acute beds by hospitals for drug addicts should strongly emphasise this. Focusing on overdose problems is important and needs to be taken seriously. At the same time, this should not lead central and local authorities to remove the focus on all other health damage caused by drug abuse.’ These are strong statements from the highest professional body we have in our practical drug protection, which I assume the Minister for Social Affairs will look at and take note of when she is going to evaluate the work presented. Finally, I refer to the proposal distributed at the premises of the representatives to approve the buprenorphine product for the treatment of heavy heroin users. The proposal was supported by reference to the comments of the Progress Party on page 4 of column 2 of the vote, which states that one cannot wait for the trial of this drug at the methadone centre in Oslo, as it will take years before an evaluation result is available. For so long, the Progress Party believes that patients cannot wait for lifesaving treatment. We therefore want this product approved for the prescription of psychiatrists, internal physicians and specialists in general medicine. I note with great amazement that the Workers' Party intends to vote against this proposal. It's so amazing that it's almost hard for me to believe it. So you're going to be consistent with something you're in this particular situation. The reasons given by the Workers' Party for voting against the proposal, which was given by the representative Einar Olav Skogholt, are with respect to notifying little credibility. I would like to quote from the setting, where the Labour Party and the Advance Party on page 7 column 1 have the following common comment, put in the pen just by the Workers' Party: ‘The majority of the Committee, members of the Workers’ Party and the Advance Party, consider that buprenorphine should be useful to interested general practitioners under the guidance of drug specialists. The majority assume that the medicinal product is used as part of a treatment and with the necessary follow-up.» Despite this strong comment, the Labour Party will now vote against the proposal, which has just been put forward by the Progress Party. The consequence would then be that the Workers’ Party, for the first time, reverts to what they themselves have written in the setting, and, for the second, that they fail the heavy drug addicts who go waiting for treatment. This may lead to an increase in overdose deaths. And this is what the Workers' Party wants to take responsibility for? It does not want the Progress Party, and that is why, as I am now referring to, the proposal will be put forward for real voting in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1603	John I. Alvheim has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1606	There was a great deal of attention when the figures on drug deaths were published in 1998. It is serious when 270 people died of overdose in Norway last year. The dead were on average only a little over 30 years old. Numbers show that addicts are getting younger and younger. More than half of the deaths occur outside Oslo. This shows that the problem of overdose is developing as the market for cheap and strong heroin is expanding throughout the country. According to the annual report of the State judicature Institute, no country in the world has as many drug and pill users in traffic as Norway. The number of drivers involved in drug abuse behind the steering wheel has increased strongly in recent years, and the use of heavier drugs is increasing most. In view of these depressing figures, what we had was an interpellation debate in February, where 13 proposals were sent to the Social Committee. Two years ago, the previous Social Committee held a debate on drug policy. Many of the proposals we are considering today are almost identical to those made in connection with St.meld. No 16 for 1996-97. Both the government of Jagland and now the government of Bondevik have followed up the work. The Minister for Social Affairs has spent a lot of time, she has traveled and had contact with addicts, relatives and treatment staff. The provision of methadone-assisted rehabilitation has been made nationwide. Support has been provided for the operation of five new health stations for drug users in Oslo, and new lowthreshold facilities are to be established in other cities. Two of the proposals were not discussed two years ago, namely the desire to give Subutex to heavy addicts awaiting methadone treatment and the establishment of injection rooms. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that the strict criteria for providing medical treatment are maintained. All other treatment services should be tested first. We see that for some people, the quality of life can improve with such treatment when the user is followed up with accommodation and employment services. In the revised national budget, the government has granted money for testing buprenorphine treatment. The Christian People's Party will await the outcome of such a pilot project before considering a possible general approval of the prescription, and will not support the proposal promoted by the Progress Party today. From other countries, we know that a liberal practice has led to such preparations becoming easily tradable in the street environment. In the case of injection rooms, the Christian People's Party is involved in several critical remarks. We fear that injection rooms can break down our restrictive policies and contribute to a smooth transition to legalisation. The goal of a drug-free society is firm. We must not be so immediately oriented that we forget about drug-free institutions. During the hearing we were told that it is useful to bet on alternatives. At the Selbu collective was 80 pst. substance-free after five years. I think prevention benefits. One must facilitate good and safe growth conditions. School health services and the PP service need to be strengthened. Several schools have tried out the peer support system. At Fromand Secondary School, I have seen how young people have acted as important actors and models in leisure and leisure. Most of them were civil servants. Other schools use the unemployed, young people who are waiting at a place of study, or have this as a practical place to become care workers. The system has contributed to less violence, bullying and intoxication. I want to pay tribute to non-governmental organisations and individuals who spend a lot of their time in the fight against drugs. Nightfalls are a good example of this. The figures for the first three months of this year are 38 pst. reduction in overdose deaths. This may be due to the fact that, at the same time, the police seized a lot of heroin. Cross-departmental cooperation is important. We have to bet on the kids. New fashion fabrics that GHB lures them. If we succeed in giving young people a free time of youth, we save the individual and their families for great suffering and society for great expense.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1634	The drugs problem concerns us all. They hit many people, families and their surroundings. In addition to the many human tragedies and the social and health consequences of the abuse, the problems create insecurity in everyday life for most people. It is important to maintain the objective of drug policy, the long-term overall policy objective: to work towards a society free from abuse. This policy has broad support here in the United Kingdom and in the population. It is a goal that reflects society’s overall attitude to drugs. The vision of a drug-free society is an expression of a positive view of people, of trust, faith and optimism. Our failure to do everything we can to combat drugs must not lead us to abandon our goal. We want a society where drug abuse is unacceptable. A civilised and humane society cannot allow human beings to go down without trying to prevent it. Some claim that experimentation with drugs is the result of our freedom of choice. But when addiction to drugs is there, it is no longer a free choice, either for dependent parents or siblings, or for those children who have parents who are drug addicts. A society shall facilitate our unfolding and personal freedom for development and growth, but it is equally natural for a democratic society to limit and combat what violates the freedom of the individual and the environment. Everyone has the right to a worthy life. The drugs problem is not just a problem that affects the individual, it affects, as I was about, everyone. So society must set some limits, not least parents must take responsibility, and families must be strengthened. It is important to have knowledge of what is happening in the different youth cultures. Young people are looking for identity and community, and the choices they make will often be central. The mid-1990s analysis of young people shows how the frequency of drug use is strikingly parallel to the peaks and decreases in various youth cultural waves, and in this knowledge there is a high potential for prevention. Young people do not just participate in their own environments. Identity and belonging are built on arenas where we all participate. It is therefore a joint responsibility to form counter-cultures and build on attitudes towards drugs and to prevent the availability of illicit drugs. However, it is at least equally important to take action to enable children and young people to strengthen their identity, self-confidence and ability to limit and withstand the pressures in many youth settings. Significant human and financial resources are being invested in prevention today. A key tool is to take care of and strengthen the drugfree environment. Prevention of drug use among young people is also about creating good growth conditions for children and young people. If we are to be able to succeed in the prevention work, cooperation between the various departments needs to be strengthened and the various measures better coordinated. The measures already in place need to be further strengthened — the outreach health teams, the Department or the psychiatric youth teams. The right-hand side, like the rest of the committee, sees the need to carry out a thorough review of the treatment services currently available and to see them in relation to recent treatment principles. The voluntary organisations such as the Association Against Rustox, Juvente, Youth Against Drugs and others are a valuable complement to public efforts, and conditions need to be improved so that this resource can be exploited even better than it is today. School is an important arena for prevention, increased knowledge and awareness-raising. The Commodity Support Scheme established at some of our secondary schools is a positive contribution to a better and safer school environment. This system must be further developed and established where necessary. As one of its main areas of activity, the school health service has to prevent psychosocial problems, and the prevention of drug problems has a central place in this work. With regard to the heaviest drug users, there has been a worrying trend in recent years, with an increase in the number of overdose deaths. It was heartwarming to read about Hege in the Evening Post on Saturday. She died of an overdose, only 15 years old — probably an overdose of the new substance GHB, a substance that is rapidly absorbed into the body and that is rapidly degraded. It is not the same as ecstasy, but a sedative and sedative drug that kills rapidly in the event of overdose. It's scary – and it's a legal substance! I would like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs why is this substance not on the list of illegal substances? But there are also positive signs to track. Over the first three months of 1999, there has been a 38 pst reduction in overdose deaths in Oslo from 1998 to 1999. During the same period, there was a 27 - p.m. overdose. Of course, it is too early to say anything about whether this development will last, and whether it is the same for the rest of the country. Some of the reasons for the decline may be the debate on overdose deaths, better health and care interventions and police seizures of large quantities of heroin. Therefore, measures from the police and customs to reduce the availability of heroin, measures to meet the need for care and lowthreshold services for the most vulnerable groups must continue. At the same time, it is necessary to avoid or to limit measures that may strengthen the injecting and kick culture of drug users. Injection rooms are such a measure to which the right is highly sceptical. It could help to break down restrictive drug policies, make use easier and, in the worst cases, contribute to legalisation. There are right-wing strong opponents of it. There are no simple solutions for the heaviest group of addicts. The problems are very complex, and it is important that municipal and county health and social services cooperate and assess on a case-by-case basis what is the best treatment. In some cases, it may be appropriate to organise individualised care arrangements rather than treatment arrangements with less ambitious targets for rehabilitation. It is important not to underestimate the positive resources and the inherent development potential of the individual abuser. The provision of medical treatment must be the last resort. Methadone treatment is intended to increase the quality of life of the heaviest drug users and to reduce the number of overdose deaths. For treatment success, research shows that methadone programmes with strict control and close follow-up deliver good results, but where control is poor and follow-up is lacking, the result is also poor. Methadone does not solve any problems itself, nor does it eliminate the need for drug use through the consumption of other types of drugs. It is therefore important to stress that methadone is not a simple solution to the complex problems of misuse. Drug treatment should not be an alternative to treatment that aims at a drug-free life. There must be a wide range of treatment services for drug users. We are now expanding a nationwide offer of methadone-assisted rehabilitation. But this must not delay the other offers and stays at the institution or collective. Right is pleased that the Government of the revised budget has proposed to grant funds for a buprenorphine treatment project. The right would stress that the framework of such a project must be as stringent as that of methadone-assisted treatment, and not as proposed by the Advance Party, to add it to individual medical groups. If the offer is to be satisfactory, progress plans for methadone-assisted treatment should be established in each Member State to provide the individual abuser, family and treatment provider with the necessary information on this offer. Drug users living in shelters who meet the criteria for this treatment must be able to obtain it without having to move from shelters. The municipality of Oslo has submitted to the Ministry a trial project using buprenorphine for addicts who qualify for methadone-assisted treatment. The right favours such a pilot project and asks the Ministry to facilitate its implementation. The problems associated with overdoses are complex. This is why the problems must be addressed by general measures, and the main responsibility must lie with the Ministry of Social Affairs and not be transferred to the Ministry of Health, as the Progress Party has proposed. The Committee is unanimous in its position and calls on the Government to consider the existing proposals. Changes take place quickly and require a continuous follow-up and evaluation of actions. The right is confident that the Government will follow up the proposals the Grand Government is now asking for. It is now necessary to maintain a high and sustained preparedness from politicians at all levels, from non-governmental organisations and from parents and individuals to combat drug abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1678	: This case has a foundation in the real world that is serious and tragic. With regard to the more procedural and formal anchoring, the starting point is somewhat more specific. The reason for the proposals we are now considering is that a total of 13 proposals were made by the Labour Party and the Progress Party in connection with an interpellation by the representative John I. Alvheim on 16 February of this year. The amount of the proposal was such that the Presidency of the Grand Duchy decided to propose the transmission of the proposals to the Social Committee. Of course, any representative and any party is free to make as many proposals as they want in Stortinget. But it was striking that so many and far-reaching proposals came in connection with an interpellation debate, and were not promoted with greater strength before, among other things. in connection with Innst. S. No 184 for 1996-97 on drug policy, which was treated as late as the spring of 1997. The treatment that was then carried out was based on St.meld. No 16 for 1996-97, presented by the then Labour Party Government, but there were few signals there in the direction of the proposals that the Labour Party has now made. We have now also received some recognition in connection with today’s stoppage that drug policy in Norway has not been good enough. In this connection, I refer to a majority comment by the Labour Party and the Advance Party, in which these parties sit. ‘Question mark on whether the drug policy pursued in Norway up to the present date has produced the desired results, namely the reduction of drug abuse’. The same majority claims in another note ‘the situation of overdose deaths in Norway has come out of control. Over 1 000 people have died of overdoses in the last 6 years, and unfortunately, the number of deaths is increasing for each year.’ This is a relationship that we all have to and should take inwards, but it's also saying that not one of the overdose deaths is or should be controlled. We need to prevent, act and treat overdose deaths. Fortunately, there is, at least apparently, a broad consensus on some measures in the area of drug policy. The Committee is unanimous in stressing the importance of working on and improving cross-border cooperation, both centrally and locally. The Committee also considers it important to strengthen existing measures such as the outreach health teams, the Department and the psychiatric youth teams. In the opinion of the Committee, if local authorities are to increase their efforts and appropriations for overall prevention, they must also strengthen the State resources for this purpose. The Committee also emphasises that coordination of local inputs will be essential in order to address the issue of prevention. Local authorities should be required to draw up local action plans to allow for cross-border and coherent action. The role of the school, the importance of the PP service and the competence of the school health service must be upgraded and strengthened. The Committee also supports the Government and the Minister of Social Affairs that municipalities must be encouraged to draw up real drug policy plans and to plan for each individual drug user. The Committee also agrees that low-threshold measures with health services are established at municipal level and that provision of housing, work and follow-up services should be possible to the extent necessary. In this last area, I also think there is a need for culture and experience to create a meaningful and rehabilitating situation to help people return to a drug-free life. Despite the unanimity of the committee I have referred to, I am in doubt whether we agree so much when we come to reality. It's enough to point out today's debate here in the Chamber on the municipal economy. If I do not take a lot of mistakes, the Progress Party has reinforced where its negative attitude towards the municipal sector, which we agree on in the vote, must have a significant and more active role than today in order to help prevent, treat and rehabilitate, for example, to avoid. overdose deaths. For with what resources are the municipalities going to do this work if you listen to the Progress Party? On the contrary, they say that there is a significant economic savings potential in the municipal sector, they want to reduce cultural offers, and it was said on a general basis that the Progress Party does not have any involvement with the municipalities. What, then, is the practical involvement of the Progress Party in drug policy? Is it just fine words, or is it the contractor who is going to stand for everything here too – including multidisciplinary and cross-sectoral cooperation? Or is there a major and real difference in Norwegian drug policy, however, where the Progress Party is the foremost representative of drug treatment? The Progress Party wants to raise a debate on the question of whether the criminalisation of young users of drugs has the deterrent effect of current policies. The party to progress is also the party most likely to recommend the use of drugs as a lifelong maintenance with an analgesic. The Progress Party, together with the Labour Party, is also the biggest player in the issue of setting up injection rooms in Norway. Despite the United Nations Drug Control Council asking countries that consider setting up injection rooms to think carefully about the negative consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1712	I note that the majority of the Social Committee, the Workers' Party and the Advancement Party write in the statement that they: ‘will question whether the drug policy pursued in Norway up to the present date has produced the desired results, namely the reduction of drug abuse’. To me, it is quite obvious that current drug use is not the goal of the drug policy that has been pursued. All the information shows this quite clearly. All statistics show that overdose deaths and seizures of drugs are increasing, while availability is increasing. I certainly believe that it is time to do something about drug policy, and I am confident that the Council of State will follow it up. We often read statistics, and unfortunately statistics are not suitable for initiating actions. Outside these walls, however, statistics are not involved, but the weakest group of people in Norway. We are all aware of the desperate situation of drug users. I'm not going to try to override the description of a situation that for us others might not be able to understand. On the other hand, this must be our basis in any debate on the use of nicotine. It is the users who are the weak party, and it must be the task of society to help. Today, the debate is mostly about those who die of overdoses, but it is equally important to focus on those who die because of poor health or take their own lives. When we make a policy to improve the conditions of our drug addicts, quality of life and human dignity must be at the heart of our lives. The Left supports the Committee's position to forward the proposals of the representatives Øyang and Alvheim to the Government. These are proposals that individually could lead to a better situation for drug addicts. But they should be part of an overall plan, which must come from the Government. I will not go into each proposal, but comment on some of them. I am very much in agreement with what the Progress Party says about methadone treatment. Several of today’s criteria for methadone treatment need to be considered. This applies, for example: requirement for a fixed dwelling, a requirement which seems completely meaningless to that group. Age limits must also be able to be assessed. Today, young people with drugs begin at the age of 12 to 13 years, and several overdose victims are below the age limit for methadone treatment. Our objective of the treatment policy must be to improve the quality of life of drug users, including young people. The left will not vote for Mr Alvheim's proposal to deal with Subutex today. I think it'll be a little strange if the Storting will decide on the use of individual preparations in this way. On the other hand, I strongly encourage the Government to prioritise and accelerate the work on testing Subutex. There is a need for alternatives to methadone, and Subutex seems to be such an alternative. I am confident that the Government will present opportunities to solve the major problems of drug users in the follow-up to the work of the Labour Commission. Acute care, treatment with and without medication and aftercare must be presented in a context. I also expect that the results achieved in other countries will be carefully considered when treating heroin addicts. Other measures to improve the living conditions of addicts, such as: priority must be given to a review of the hosting system, which is also the subject of the Committee. I encourage the Council of State to be ambitious about actions and efforts of the big community. The effort so far is far from satisfactory. Half of those who died after an overdose in Oslo last year had never been in contact with the treatment device. This means that not only can we focus on improving existing treatment facilities, but we also need to figure out how to get in touch with the addicts – how we can achieve the trust needed to achieve it. This is a big challenge. The left believes that it is more important for drug addicts to be met with help rather than being punished for their addiction. This might also have caused more drug addicts to seek help, or perhaps it would be easier for us to go to them. In this context, injection rooms must also be considered.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1738	In February, in the debate on drug deaths, the Labour Party presented ten measures to strengthen both prevention and lifesaving activities. The background to the proposals was the very alarming trend in the number of overdose deaths in Norway. In 1998, 270 died, and 1 000 people died in six years. In 1998, the majority of deaths occurred outside Oslo. There are alarmingly many deaths among new groups of heroin users. In other words, overdose deaths have spread in an explosive way, both geographically and socially. Drug death is no longer a major urban problem, but a national problem that requires attention and ability to act at national level. When, on the part of the Labour Party, we have found it necessary to address the problems untraditionally, it is also because we have reason to believe that the deaths represent the top of an iceberg and that drug abuse has spread as a curse across the country, with an increasing geographical and social impact. Fortunately, there has been some awakening in the Norwegian drug debate this spring. The profoundly serious and tragic situation has promoted innovation and the desire to do something between responsible politicians and trade unions across the country. A majority has emerged here on the Stortinget and in municipalities and municipalities, for example. in Westfold and Bergen, who are engaged in implementing the necessary measures that we know have worked in other countries. I have noticed that the social minister is now more willing to use untraditional approaches to overdose deaths. The budgetary strengthening of methadone and testing projects for buprenorphine in the revised national budget bear witness to this. The 10 million-dollar strength. In other words, it was entirely in line with the Workers' Party's alternative budget. And we are pleased that the Social Minister takes the signals from Stortinget, even though we have a strong feeling that it is necessary for the Stortinget to be a driver. The Social Minister and the Government today receive proposals from the Labour Party and the Progress Party, with clear governance signals in the form of comments from the Social Committee. The Minister of Social Affairs thus has a mandate and back cover to take the necessary action, and the Minister of Social Affairs should do so. The Labour Party is committed to immediate action against overdose deaths, drug-free services and long-term prevention of drug abuse in general. For us, it is important that all three aspects are part of a comprehensive drug policy. Close action must aim at harm reduction and aim at preventing deaths and improving the health and quality of life of drug users. This may include, inter alia: This is due to the expansion of methadone supply, the introduction of buprenorphine, low-threshold health interventions, and we also believe that an investigation into drug injection rooms staffed by health professionals. One objection to methadone and buprenorphine is that these are unfortunate drugs. Yeah, that's possible. But heroin is far more dangerous, and we must take it inward that heroin is, unfortunately, the alternative. The situation does not suggest that we can sit down on our high horse. Harmreduction measures save lives and raise the standard of living of drug addicts. In the extreme situation in Norway, in the case of overdose deaths, there is no time to lose in trying out measures and treatments that have saved lives in other European countries. I'm afraid that the exasperation of buprenorphine has something to do with how we look at those drug addicts, and what status they have as a group in our society. If you, for example, in the United States had found a cure for cancer, perhaps the procedure and introduction of the offer in Norway would take place at a slightly different rate than that of buprenorphine. UserThe Tønsberg Association is a partner organisation for drug users that has gathered over 100 members in Norway. The association attaches great importance to buprenorphine treatment, which can give the addicts and their families a worthwhile life. The Minister of Social Affairs should note that the majority is in favour of buprenorphine being used by relevant general practitioners under the guidance of drug specialists. I would like to make it clear that the use of drugs needs to be followed up with care and measures that can lead to a new way of life. Drugs can work well, but they're not enough. Unfortunately, harm reduction measures are urgently needed. Only this year, the Oslo Police Chamber has recorded about 45 drug deaths. And with regard to the situation outside Oslo, the trade unions fear that the tragic trend of the previous year will be reinforced in 1999. However, measures aimed at helping today’s drug addicts need to be complemented by preventive measures to prevent new young people from being recruited into drug abuse. Everything suggests that most of us are incredibly naive in terms of the prevalence of drugs in youth settings and in the wider world. A psychiatrist in drug care estimated it to be an average of four years from the start of drug use to the discovery of it by the parents. In the important prevention work among children and young people, I am pleased that the Labour Party and the Centre parties are united. It is about creating safe growing conditions and a good framework for development in relation to family, school, leisure and the community. These are measures to balance living conditions and ensure that no one falls outside school and working life. All kids have to be seen, understood and accepted, with the assumptions they have. In this work we must all take responsibility, both parents, adults and public institutions. The situation is serious. The 1998 crime scene from Kripos shows that all police districts in the country are now seizing the most common drugs. Drug use is spreading to new groups of children and young people, and the onset age is declining. For example, Rusforum-Telemark writes: ‘We are in a time when young people from 13 to 14 years of age are beginning to have strong substances. Young people aged 18 years have approached social services to ask for help with their drug problems. These reports that they started their drug career at the age of 13-14 and that they have been on heroin and amphetamines since they were 15 years old. Unfortunately, the reports suggest that the situation in Telemark is not unique, but representative of what is happening across the country. This requires long-term efforts and strengthening the prevention of child and youth work throughout the response chain. In addition, the situation requires that we are able to withstand the pressure of those who want to legalize and harmlessly eliminate drugs. I am pleased that there is a broad political consensus on the restrictive Norwegian drug policy. I hope that in the future, too, we stand together against the pressure from those who want to make holes in the dam.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1783	I am pleased with the Storting’s strong commitment to drug policy and the problems of the heaviest drug addicts. Political commitment – at all levels – in our society is needed if we are to achieve better results in this area. Many different measures are required. The government has, as is well known, increased efforts both in the prevention of drug use and in the interventions for drug addicts between drug users with the main problems. I am also pleased that the committee’s position shows that there is a broad consensus on one of the most important things: strengthening coordination of efforts across levels, professionalism and volunteering, and increasing investment in schools. As part of the follow-up to the Action Plan on Reduced Drug Use, which was discussed last December by the Stortinget, the Ministry has already strengthened the seven regional competence centres to increase the professional guidance for teachers and cooperation on other drug prevention measures in schools. The Directorate of Drugs is hosting a conference of centres of expertise and the State Education Office to plan common strategies and cooperation. The model of municipal drug policy plans that are currently being printed and sent to municipalities highlights the importance of seeing all responses to drug problems in a holistic way. In addition, together with the Minister of Health and Justice, I have set up a working group of officials from both the police department, the criminal services department, the health department and the social department of our two departments. It has to be used, among other things. to stimulate increased cooperation at local level, particularly in relation to drug users with the main problems. I find it also there, of course, to attract the Ministry of Church, Education and Research. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health aims to launch a controlled trial using buprenorphine for some of these abuses from the fall. Together with the Minister of Health, I would like to carefully evaluate the multiple comments of the Labour Party and the Advance Party that medicinal products containing buprenorphine should be printable by general practitioners with specialist guidance. I find reason to note that the experience with such a scheme in Denmark is mixed, and in France, which has a corresponding system for methadone and Subutex, it is reported that about 30 pst. of the prescribed medicinal product is marketed on the illegal market. I want to give this comment both a thorough and a quick follow-up. In Norway, among other things, drug and temgesic printed to several drug users without any other follow-up. Some drug users have had a better life with this practice, others have not. It is also reported that both preparations are placed on the illegal market. Introducing methadone-assisted rehabilitation, regional centres were created, among others. to ensure the most effective control of drug printing and to ensure the follow-up of the individual client needed in relation to education, work, social networking and so on. We have to be open all the time to consider whether the measures we are building up are the right ones to solve their clients' problems. Unfortunately, we already see that methadone-assisted rehabilitation is not the solution for anyone who tries it. Several others failed here too. It is a major challenge to develop the appropriate facilities for those who do not benefit from either the methadone assisted rehabilitation or drug-free measures. The Ministry will put this challenge on the agenda in its own conference to the autumn, where we will simultaneously draw on experience from working with this group, including: Denmark, the Netherlands, Belgium and the United States. I have warned of the legal aspect when it comes to a system of injection rooms, and I have noticed the attitude of the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment. In a later article, I will come back more closely to that and to several questions raised in the debate. 5 minutes goes very fast.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1800	Time has passed, yes. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1805	In the county of Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and I come from, I know that in some municipalities there are serious problems in getting kids to take on the responsibility for distributing methadone. This is the setting where the majority point to this with the information meeting as a way of organizing it. But I have understood that there is almost a problem with the authorities of instructions for the local government, if they can impose private practice on them by agreeing to take on this job. I should have liked the Council of State to comment on this. The other problem area that we're struggling with, and I also believe in a number of other states, is that with detoxification – getting the institutions to take drug addicts in for detoxification. They won't make it until they get through it. And there's also, at least in countries where there's a lot of private institutions, we have problems with ordering any of the institutions to do this. I'm very curious to hear what the government might be thinking of doing to try to solve these problems, because there won't be a system of methadone treatment if not all the pieces are in place.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1814	I want to do the last one first. I've noticed both of these issues that Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt came across here in relation to both Rogaland and other states. In the case of detoxification, the Ministry has reduced a working group through the provision of treatment as it is today, both in relation to the existing supply, the quality of the interventions, the organisation of them and the funding systems. Two sub-reports have already been sent on a wide roll. The representative Alvheim has referred from parts of a hearing statement. The third is about to be ready for broadcast. The conclusions of these reports, together with the hearings, will form the basis for further follow-up to the Storting on different themes. When it comes to detoxification and the problems associated with what some today point to, it is important to bring about a level playing field in all states. When it comes to the allocation of methadone and its obligations to provide the necessary health services, we now look at the temporary criteria. One way to do it is to follow it up there, but in addition, it is quite clear that we also need to strengthen cooperation further between the centres that have a responsibility, and the individual doctor who also has to assume responsibility, so that people can be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1825	We have now got our own user association for drug users – an action that I think can be incredibly important in the future because we have now brought these patients, these people, into the light. And I would first like to recommend to the Minister of Social Affairs that this association, like other patient associations, receive the support they deserve after size. I will be allowed to quote the following from a document published by this association: ‘Since Buprenorphine is a milder and less toxic active substance than methadone, it is perceived from the User Association’s point of view as daunting that patients with excellent buprenorphine function are forced to switch to methadone ‘because the law requires it’. The User Association believes this is a clear example of a patient group who becomes the victim of a law ‘that has survived itself’.’ And my question is about this test project that you're about to set up with Subutex. There is so much evidence both domestic and foreign that you could start treatment tomorrow if you wanted to. We had the same problem when we started methadone treatment in the project at Gaustad. In Sweden this treatment had been given over several years, but we were going to try this on death and life. It resulted in four years of waiting before we got the first patient during treatment. How many had left this world before that time, I don't know, but there were many!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1839	I met representatives of the User's Association Tønsberg on the move, I must say, out in the hiking hall in Stortinget today. That's the contact I've had with that unit so far. I have noticed the representative Alvheim's appeal. Otherwise, I've spent a lot of my time these months as a social minister, meeting with both drug addicts and the treatment supply. And if there's something that's been underlined to me, there's no simple solutions here. If a scheme is successful for one drug user, it may not be possible to transfer to another. When it comes to buprenorphine, it's known to Stortinget that we were a group that visited a clinic in France that has experience with this over time. There is no doubt that buprenorphine was a useful aid to several drug addicts. Nor is there any doubt that in order to be able to close it, close follow-up is needed. Now we want to start trying to connect both to MARIO in Oslo and the Bergen Clinics in Bergen. But let me stress that close follow-up is here, in my view, a commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1851	As I was in my post, the use of this new drug GHB has increased considerably, and the Oslo police are now making weekly seizures of the drug, which is thought to be the new mode of administration. A GHB death in last year and more widespread seizures before and after the turn of the year gave an indication of increased spread. And the trend is also known from other countries, where the drug is traded in settings where young people use ecstasy. But only in the last few months have many seizures been made in Oslo, and this may indicate a significant increase in the turnover of the drug. Now we have obviously also had a new death, which I was inside in my post, and then I refer to Hege, who died of an overdose in an apartment in Oslo on 20 May. I want to repeat my question to the Social Minister about why this substance is not on the list of illegal substances. What will the Minister of Social Affairs do with the new information on this substance?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1858	GHB is one of several synthetic drugs in circulation. Developments are in the direction of an increasing number of abuseable synthetic drugs. There is no doubt that we are facing an important challenge in the years to come. In these days, the substance GHB is a relatively new substance in the context of abuse. I share the views of the representative, Sonja Sjølis, in relation to both the essay in the evening post and the follow-up that is necessary here. This substance is now under evaluation by the Health Authority. They look at the possibility of bringing it up on the drug list. There are certain procedures in connection with it, but the Health Authority has promised that this matter will be given high priority.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1865	The cord shift is over. The speakers who have the floor hereafter have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1870	In my previous post, I adhered strictly to the Committee's recommendations and minority and majority comments, but I now want to comment on SV's point of view in the three-minute post. It is that most of the proposals that are here may seem little controversial, with the exception of three. This concerns the two proposals relating to Subutex, and not least the proposal on injection rooms. I think it is interesting when the majority here, the Labour Party and the Advance Party, refer to experience with injection rooms from Frankfurt as if those experiences should be unequivocally positive and that there should be recommendations in it. I would like to quote from the magazine Against Rustox, which deals with all the proposals that are here in Stortinget today, and also refers to the use of injection rooms. What you say there is: ‘The experience of the first injection room establishment in Schielerstrasse in Frankfurt was such that drug sales and other crime were completely out of control. To get some control over this, it is necessary to set strict limits on how many drug users could stay there at the same time and how long they could be there. The majority of injecting drug users are therefore still excluded from injection rooms. The existing injection room offer in Frankfurt is currently being used by 380-450 people, i.e. 5-10 percent of drug injecting drug users. Probably one or more injection rooms in Oslo could reach a corresponding marginal part of the target population.’» In the same issue, reference is made to Helge Waal's report from France, and experience related to the use of buprenorphine, or Subutex as several here say. I think that's interesting too. Because when you listen to Alvheim in his approach to Subutex, it's like you have some kind of magic form here with the use of that drug, while what is described here in this report, is: ‘In France, it is reported that 74 per cent of users in French spray buses inject Subutex. 45 per cent injected the drug daily and 33 per cent had purchased the drug on the illicit market. Overdose deaths with Subutex are also likely to be reported in combination with other substances. These include: therefore, it is difficult to see that Subutex could provide an alternative to drug addicts who are in line for methadone.» It would lead too far here to address other objections to the use of Subutex. But it's obvious that the objections are significant, and that at least you have to have a regime related to the substance, like methadone, but that methadone could essentially have the benefits you're looking for in relation to Subutex, because it would be easy to hide. You can abuse it, you can dissolve it, and you can inject it. I find it strange that the proposers do not take up some of the important arguments, but instead try to push through the fact that this is to be used in Norway alongside methadone.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1892	I would like to thank the Council of State for its response to the reply, but I'm probably afraid that the problems might be a little bit bigger than what she gave the impression, especially when it comes to the role of the Legans. But back to the case. Despite the fact that representatives from the Labour Party are behind most of the proposals in the case we are dealing with now, I will make a brief statement at the end of the day with nuances and critical remarks at some points. Maybe I have an old-fashioned view of how to help drug addicts. I still have doubts as to whether the trend towards providing more and more people with maintenance doses of drugs is good, and whether this is the best way a society can provide advanced drugs. I have, I must say, fairly conflictingly supported trials with methadone assisted treatment. I have only supported it for those who have come the longest, who have tried various forms of extensive treatment, and who have held on for a long time. The basis for this is good — the drug addicts will have a better life with methadone, and it can prevent overdose deaths. But it's time to check if this is the case. If methadone treatment is the last option, do these clients get a better life, are they largely drug-free, and die fewer of overdoses? As far as I can see, at least the number of overdose deaths has increased since the introduction of this treatment. It may be that the increase would have been greater without methadone-assisted treatment. However, it may also be that fewer people take on heavy and extensive treatment and bet on getting methadone by the quarter. They may also die in this process, for example. in the event of relapse. I don't know, but I hope the Council of State is interested in examining the context here more closely before a possible extensive extension of supply. When it comes to buprenorphine, I am more than satisfied with the progressed Minister for Social Affairs in his letter of 25 March. Here, in my opinion, one must proceed gradually and slowly, and evaluate along the way. In this way, I am pleased that the Labour Party is unable to vote for proposal No. One, from the representative of Alvheim. Narcomas and their neighbours often have very difficult lives, and prevention and treatment can make it possible for them to do better. But if there is something I have learned for many years working with, among other things. Drug addicts, there are rarely simple answers to complex and complex questions. Therefore, we need a large range of measures to help out as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1907	I think everyone is concerned about the evolution we have seen, with an increasing number of long-term drug users and with a very large number of overdose deaths last year. We therefore need to adjust the course and more offensively focus on measures to facilitate the life situation of those who have developed drug addiction. It must be effective and we must be open to new instruments that can save lives. There's been a recent recruitment to tough substance environments in our country. In addition, the problem has spread strongly across the districts. There is a need to invest in nationwide methadone projects, as well as the new treatment options, such as buprenorphine, may be relevant to heavy drug users. There is a close link between the practice of violence and the use of drugs. Violent acts are often committed in a state of emergency. We also know that many drug users commit criminal acts to finance their drug abuse. We therefore need to find measures that can give advanced drug users a decent life, a quality of life that gives them strength and courage to combat their addiction and to adapt to the society in which we all live. There must be a wide range of services to help both heavy and minor drug users. That is precisely why we must not forget the prevention measures either. Transnational organisation at local level, cooperation between police, school, PP and child protection are very important. School health services must be central to prevention and social work among children and young people. I think many parents have good skills and are good support players for their children. But you'd like to think the best, and you're not always on guard until it's too late. Information work is therefore important, and not least the focus on cultural provision as a prevention measure. We must not just bet on repair, but have a wide range of offers that can provide a meaningful leisure time for vulnerable groups. Just thinking about the long-term abusers and their actions is short-term thinking. Children and young people must be able to master their lives. They need to be offered leisure activities they want to attend, and they need to be helped to meet the major challenges they face in school and among friends. Conflict resolution, contact between young people, home and child protection, housing for those who have entered into serious conflicts with their parents, daily contacts, networks, outreach contacts and support contacts must become areas of activity. We have to show care before it's too late.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1924	Every overdose death is a tragedy. We're not going to hide that, and we're going to see the seriousness of that. But, as previous speakers have pointed out, we must also record with pleasure the positive developments in this area. Now we must not leave the number of overdose deaths alone and not even the best measure of the quality of our drug care. We must remember, as is often claimed, that drug abuse must be considered a disease. Then we also need to assess the results of our treatment based on this, and look at the overall morbidity and mortality, as we do when assessing the treatment of other diseases. Fortunately, the relatively low number of drug users in Norway indicates that, after all, we have had a relatively successful policy in this area, not good enough, but still relatively successful. I am not going to repeat the anti-buprenorphine and spray rooms representative Ballos, but just briefly point out that when it is referred to France, the case of overdose deaths in France occurred before the use of broprenorphine. And when referring to lifesaving injection rooms in Frankfurt, it is also here that injection rooms came after other measures leading to a reduction in overdose deaths. So we must not let overdose deaths alone control drug policy; we must not believe that buprenorphine, methadone or injection rooms are the simple solutions. I would then like to warn against the motion for a resolution by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 1st@item: We have a good system, and we have competent institutions to assess the approval of drugs in Norway. The size is not such an institution. Earlier today, the representatives of the Progress Party have been willing to take over tasks related to county councils and regional health committees. It is now also intended to take over tasks for the control of medicinal products. I note that the representatives of the Progress Party have a great deal of faith in their own competence, but I would warn against prescribing drugs from Stortinget's pulpit, whether blue or white.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1940	It may be that the representatives of the Progress Party actually have a better understanding of this than what a professor of medicine has! Then we got an explanation as to why the Workers' Party will vote against the proposal I have made: there is disagreement in the Labour Party's group. I have a great deal of understanding for that. But why don't you say that's the reason? Why not be honest? I think the most important thing we can do, and as we may have done – at least in the first place – is to raise the status of drug users as human beings. We need to completely remove the stamped clients, social clients, lasers and criminals. It's people, and it's actually sick people we're talking about here. Therefore, the healthcare system should take a far greater responsibility than has been the case so far. It's my business. We all agree that we do not seek medical treatment first. This is done after other treatment services have been tried. However, in the case of a heroin addict, there is no reason to wait ten years before entering treatment. In all other medicine, the sooner you get treatment, the better the effect. So to the representative Sonja Sjøli, who says that medical treatment does not have to be an alternative. No, it shouldn't be. But if we don't use drugs here, then the option can actually be death.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1951	With regard to the proposal submitted by the Progress Party, I am not a little surprised and disappointed by the representative Alvheim's statement that the Labour Party's argument to vote against was not credible, as we were together on a strong comment on this. Yes, we are together on this strong comment on buprenorphine printing. I will also repeat the following from my main post regarding buprenorphine printing: ‘On behalf of all heavy addicts seeking an alternative to heroin use, the Committee of the Regions calls on the Council of State to contribute to this possibility’. In the Workers' Party, we do not go back on anything we believe, but we stick to agreements that have been concluded in the Committee. That is not what the representative, Mr Alvheim, said in his last speech, that split in the Labour Party group should be the reason why we would not join in proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox But if we have made a run in the Committee on how to deal with matters, we stand for it. The representative, Ola Glötvold, referred to the comment of the majority committee that we had conducted a drug policy that had not shown enough results in Norway. I am very surprised that the Com-item number does not agree with the majority that we have failed well enough in this area. Had the minority meant it, I expect you would have joined such an observation. Furthermore, the representative of Gløtvold is surprised that in 1999 there were proposals that were not raised in the spring of 1997. I am very impressed by the offensive attitude of the Stortinget during the treatment of the drug report in May 1997, which included: it was decided to open, in opposition to the votes of the Centre Party, methadone-assisted treatment for those fulfilling the criteria. And within this area too, the changes are happening quickly. There will be new treatment measures, new drugs, etc. Therefore, it is no wonder that there are now proposals that were not pending in 1997. Like several speakers, I am pleased that the Council of State is in favour of untraditional approaches to testing new treatments, new drugs, etc. Like the representatives of the Right-wing Representatives, the Labour Party would expect the Government to follow up as soon as possible the proposals put forward in the Inner East. S. No 215. It was probably also one of the reasons why a unanimous committee chose to follow the request of the Council of State, namely to submit the proposals without any substance. I am pleased that the Council of State confirms that she will follow up the proposals that have now been submitted, as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1969	Following my meeting on 13 April 1998 with the 11 municipalities with most overdose deaths in 1998, 12 municipalities are now allocated funds to strengthen healthcare provision. I feel the need to stress that low-threshold healthcare provision needs to be integrated into the ordinary healthcare system, so that there is no special care developing in this area. I also feel the need to point out that the representative Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt is raising an important issue: what about the licensors' different engagements? It is a challenge for the priorities that are set in each municipality and health professionals, and we are pleased that all these twelve services can tell that they have health professionals in place. Then to the debate on injection rooms. I have recently noted that on 18 May this year, in a letter to the Danish Minister for Health, the UN Narcotic Drugs Control Council has made it very clear that the establishment of injection rooms would be contrary to the international drug control conventions, which have also ratified Norway and are obliged to comply with international law. There is something we need to include in the evaluations we are about to make. There is also something that, for us, must involve an increased exposure to alternatives other than injection rooms. The subject before the Rusvernet is dedicated to special attention. I want to stress that I want to focus on a good cooperation with the Board of Directors. I also think it is appropriate to highlight the regional competence centres before the drug field and the important role they have before the prevention work, at the same time as they have top competence in such areas as drug addiction. Younger drug users, female addicts, drug addicts, work and drug abuse, family work and drugs and psychiatry. As a separate source, they have the task of providing further training to municipalities and developing peak areas of competence. They are organised in a Norwegian network, and it is a very important professional advisory body for the ministry. So I'll say in the end that I'm happy for the broad commitment that's in the Storting to strengthen the preventive work. This is not a minimum requirement to prevent new recruiting. Today’s debate has also shown that there is no easy way for those who want to quit their drug abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1984	Let me first answer what the representative of Skogholt was into. I said that I think it's okay that someone came to the realization that we don't have a good enough drug policy and haven't had it until today. It has often tended to suggest that overdose deaths and other drug policy problems have occurred in recent years and that there has been an acute phenomenon now. So I think that's a self-recognition. So to the Inst. S. No For 1996–97 and the drug notification, which was dealt with two years ago. It's not right, as the representative of Skogholt says, that we were not involved in the methadone project. I would like to quote from the position, where the members of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party feel that it is right to extend the offer of methadone, but we have strict criteria for this: it should be for the most tired and those who have come up at a certain age. So a little bit until what I couldn't finish my post with. I referred to some of the suggestions and plays that the Progress Party has made, including: a debate will be held on the question of whether criminalisation of young users of drugs has the deterrent effect of current policies. What is the alternative, I'll ask the Progress Party about. Does it mean that drug use should no longer be criminalised? If we look here at a trend towards a more liberal approach to drugs and a solution to the problems of drugs towards more unilateral drug treatment, then in the Central Party we will be very sorry. It seems that the centre parties are also in the middle of drug policy, between SV on the one hand and the Progress Party/Work Party on the other. We believe that the Committee's consideration has been elucidating in some areas, and we assume that the Government will come back with measures that will contribute to the reduction in drug use and to the reduction in overdose deaths. But it is important to ask some very central questions here: why do we have this development? Is that a danger that we see too easily today? Should we have had a debate where the question was asked: why is it going to be like this? Why is life so quirky for some? What's the reason for that? The party of progress says that addicts are ‘sick’ and that abuse is disease. A former health minister loves to talk about poverty being the mother of all illnesses. Is it true that society has become so poor that we have contracted the disease of drug abuse? And in case, what do we have to do with society? The situation of individuals – family and social development – are we going to put it more in the centre than just talking about medical treatment, as we often do here?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e1997	I just feel the need to say after the post of the representative, "Responsiveness" about the comment on whether to criminalise or decriminalise young addicts – and I think that I also speak here for at least part of the Workers' Party's representatives, in addition to the Progress Party – that the comment is not meant to be in the direction of any legalisation, just so it's quite clear. But one thing we have to do, and that is to ask certain questions about the policy we have pursued in this area. That's the debate you have to create.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2002	At the very end of the day, a response to the leader of the Committee and to the fact that the working group that has been set up is neither professionally well-composed nor has had enough time to carry out its mission. I'm going to be good for the group as it is composed. The time that this group has been given to consult is conscious from my point of view of the indifference that I myself have, and also of the indifference that the Storting has in terms of strengthening its efforts. I am now looking forward to hearing statements coming into the ministry. So two of the interim reports are on the phone, and the third one is ready for hearing in a few days. I believe and hope that the material will be very useful in the further work on the various aspects of the drug problem. It will also be the 13 proposals that have been discussed by the Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2012	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 4056]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2026	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 4056]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2040	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose to allow the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2051	In connection with the treatment of Innst. S. No For 1997-98, on the establishment of social security, Stortinget took the following decisions: ‘The Government is asking the Government to discuss with the organisations procedures for the regulation of the basic amount of the population’s security. In particular, it is important to clarify the role of the Technical Calculation Committee and how the difference between the expected and actual development of income for economically active persons should be understood and used in the process of regulating the basic amount of the public interest.’;» The Committee points out that these discussions were held in meetings on 27 January, 11 February and 9 March 1999. The Committee further points out that the discussions on the regulation of the basic amount itself took place on 11 and 12 May. It turned out early that there was a great distance between the parties, and the breach was early a fact. The requirements of the organisations were an increase in the basic amount of NOK 2 200, while the offer from the Government was an increase of NOK 1580 – from 1 May 1999. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Government Parties, the Right and the Workers' Party, have chosen to participate in the Government's level with regard to the increase in the basic amount. The Socialist Left Party relies on an increase in the basic amount so that this amounts to 47 290 kroner from 1 May 1999. This will capture last year's lag. The Progress Party has chosen to take the organisations' concerns about the development of the basic amount in recent years seriously. It is a fact that the basic amount over a number of years has been underregulated in relation to the wage developments of the group with which the guidelines provide for a comparison. In fact, only once after 1983 has not had a — consciously or unconsciously — underregulation of the basic amount. It was in 1989. It's the only year you've had a positive development, and then 0.2 pst. This shows that the majority of the Grand Duchy did not wish to develop the basic amount in line with the wage development of economically active people. This development in recent years clearly shows that the Workers' Party has no reason to criticise today's government for under-regulation of the basic amount, since the Workers' Party, when it was in the government position, was responsible for the same uneven income trend that today's government stands for. I just want to remind you that when the minimum pension increased by NOK 1000 per person. month, this was something the Workers' Party was not initially wanted. Yes, in fact, it was so wrong that the Labour Party leader in the debate when the launch came with the tip of a thousand was so bold that he expressed it so that the 1000-pocket to the minimum pensioners was ‘feeling’. The Progress Party today proposes that the basic amount be increased by NOK 2200, so that the delay over the last two years is captured. The Progress Party is very concerned that the basic amount has been under-regulated over so many years, and is now choosing to do something about the last two years of post-employment, while at the same time ensuring that the guidelines laid down for the social security system itself are changed. The progress party is surprised that the other parties say in their notes that they are concerned about the underregulation that has taken place, but nevertheless they do not choose to do anything. I must say that I am surprised that these parties that are so concerned about the development of the basic amount are running away from their responsibility as politicians, when they have the opportunity to do something about what they are concerned about. This is a clear example of discharge. In their letter to the Social Committee of 4 June 1999, the organisations wrote the following: «The organisations consider that the fundamental reason why the under-regulation of the basic amount has been possible for so many years is that the guidelines of the Storting lack clear provisions on what to do when under-regulation occurs.» This is something that the Progress Party supports 100 p.m., and we are also presenting a proposal for changes to the guidelines so that you can have a desired development in the basic amount. The Progress Party therefore promotes a proposal to amend these guidelines so that they become in line with the wish to ensure that the evolution of the basic amount is equal to the development of the active population, and not just ‘overly’, as indicated in today’s guidelines. The Progress Party also promotes proposals that if wage developments turn out to be different from those used in the previous regulation of the basic amount, this should be regulated before the start of the year’s regulation. These proposals were supported only by the Socialist Left Party in the vote. I have to say, unfortunately, that it was not unexpected that the Labour Party and the Right did not support these proposals, but just come up with a variant of a proposal that shows that these parties do not want to take the burden of amending the guidelines here and now. Instead, they put forward the following proposals: ‘The government asks the Government to propose new guidelines for the regulation of the basic amount so that the insured receive wage developments in line with the employees it is natural to compare with.’ So once again, the word "remove" is used, which has caused so many problems in the past. It must be appropriate to say that this proposal does not imply anything, as it is already stated in today's guidelines. The only new thing that emerges from the Labour Party and the Right proposal is to ask the Government to consider the possibility of indexing the basic amount. The point of view of the Party is that if it wishes to make changes, it does so when it is possible. In this case, there is now an opportunity to change the Swedish Social Security Policy. The Party therefore submits its amendments in order to align the guidelines with the wish to achieve a level playing field between the basic amount and the wage development of active workers. The progress party does as we do, and acts when there is a need for action, and not as the Labour Party and the Right in this matter, namely, to speak warmly about intentions, but don't act in harmony with these. The party of progress is responsible for its promises to the insured. I take up here the proposal on which the Progress Party stands alone, and on which we stand together with others. Finally, I would like to say that if the proposals of the Progress Party fall, the Progress Party will vote in a subsidiary way in favour of the Socialist Left's proposal for an increase in the basic amount, so that at least one year's lag is caught. With regard to the proposal for guidelines themselves, the Progress Party, if the proposals of the Progress Party fall, will not accept the proposals of the Government Parties to consider it, but will then subsidly support the recommendation of the Committee, because there is at least one positive thing in it, namely indexing the basic amount.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2090	Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2093	The basic amount and its regulation are at the heart of the social security system. The basic amount is the bearer of the income development of the insured, as the income levels of the insured are largely determined by this regulation. It is an explicit objective that insured persons should have an income trend in line with those active in collective tariff negotiations. Last year, the social security scheme ended with a breach of negotiations. The same thing happened this year. Like last year, the background to the breach is the lack of compensation for the deviation between the expected and actual income development of the economically active in recent years, resulting in a continuing under-regulation of the basic amount. Organisations claimed this year as last year that the Government had shown no understanding or willingness to take account of the slowdown in the basic amount. During the hearings, the organisations claimed that the lack of willingness of the Government to enter into these discussions resulted in a change of attitude towards previous governments, and that last year the organisations broke the discussion. However, it should be pointed out that there has also been some under-regulation of the basic amount in previous years, but there has at least been an acceptance from previous governments that both historical and future wage developments should be included in the regulation of the basic amount, even if one has disagreed with the size. Under-regulation of the basic amount is not of a new date but has a long history. In particular, this was clearly the period during which social security provision was made not only referred to the regulation of the basic amount but also as special supplements, housing supplements and other transfers and arrangements that had an impact on the disposable income of pensioners were part of the total settlement. It was just the experience of this that made the basic amount subsidized as a result of other benefits, special supplements, housing allowances, etc. being adjusted. Over time, this had special consequences for the majority of the insured. In other words, they with earned supplementary pension had a lower income development than employees. In order to ensure the intention of the construction of the people's fear, it is, among other things: is expressed through the supplementary pension, amended the 1991 Grossingen guidelines for the adjustment of the basic amount. This meant that an isolated debate on the basic amount, while the other benefits became part of the budgetary procedure in Stortinget. The guidelines to be followed by the Government today in regulating the basic amount are based on the principle of parallelity in basic amounts and wage developments. The social security system last year became in practice, as I see it, a return to the situation before the new guidelines. The total transfers to the insured persons were large, including: the increase in minimum pensions, but this increase had to be paid by the other pensioners and social securityers in the event of a relatively severe under-regulation of the basic amount. An ever underregulation of G, while a proportionate increase in minimum pensions, keeps us getting closer to a flat-rate pension scheme. The deterioration in the value of the basic amount in relation to wage developments and the development of a flat pension scheme make it easy for people to lose their legitimacy by applying for other schemes that can ensure them against excessive income or standard of living when moving from work to retirement. If you want people's rights to remain the cornerstone of our welfare system, as we do, we need to ensure structurally the development of the basic amount. This was the background to a unanimous decision last year, when a government asked the government to discuss with the organisations procedures for regulating the basic amount of public money and to clarify the role of the Technical Calculation Committee, and how the difference between the expected and actual income development for the economically active is to be understood and used in regulating the basic amount of public money. The majority of the Committee, all without the parties to the Government, notes that the Government has only partially followed up the decision of the Grand Duchy, and the majority do not consider that the last part of the decision on the use of deviations in regulating the basic amount of the people's rights has been followed up. In this context, and in view of the need for more predictability of future income trends for the insured, the majority of the Committee has considered it appropriate to request that the Stortninget be submitted in good time before the next social security settlement to propose new guidelines for the regulation of social security settlement, and that, in this context, the possibility of using indexation in settlement should also be assessed. The Labour Party is concerned about the underregulation that has also taken place in this social security scheme and that the regulation of the basic amount is unilaterally linked to the expected wage growth without taking into account the lag of the insured. The Workers' Party will stress that the social security scheme is based on discussions between the organisations and the Government and that it is part of the division of labour. This means that responsibility on the part of the government must rest with the government. Based on the division of labour that is between the accumulation and the government, we find it difficult to go in and dictate a negotiating settlement on the part of Stortinget and thus take over the government's task. We will therefore vote in favour of the proposed social security settlement. But at the same time, we see it as necessary to have a tighter framework for social security in the future. This is why we are also asking for guidelines on social security provision, so that a more predictable way of ensuring that the basic amount in the future develops in line with the wage developments of employees included in collective wage negotiations. I would recommend the position as it is on the majority's side, and also the majority's position on III, which is behind the Right and the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2127	In the examination of the 1998 social security settlement in Stortingen, it was decided to ask the parties to discuss procedures for the determination of the basic amount. The Christian People's Party will therefore be pleased that the parties have reached agreement on the procedures in the social security system. [[Woie Duesund]] In the 1998 social security scheme, the minimum pensioners and others with low population protection received a strong increase in the social security system. The minimum lump sum pension increased by 13,2 pst. from 1997 to 1998, while the minimum pension for married couples increased by 14.6 pst. There was great criticism from many about increasing the minimum pension. Among other things, it was claimed that there would be nothing left of the 1000 kroner. Surveys now carried out by the Statistical Centre show that the increased income of the minimum pensioners has been a good policy of cohesion. Lone minimum pensioners have, on average, increased their net income by NOK 9 920. 66000 persons without supplementary income in addition to pensions have increased their income by a net amount of NOK 12000. Looking only at the basic amount, this increased by 5.75 p.m. from 1997 to 1998, while wage growth was 6.2 p.m. In my opinion, a social security settlement must look at the totality of the settlement, not just the basic amount. With the strong growth of the special supplement, social security was settled in 1998 as the best social security settlement in the world. Nor should one forget that the price increase was only 2.3 pst. In its observations, the Workers' Party points out that in the 1990s, governments have shown understanding that both the historical and expected wage developments must have an impact on the basic amount and its regulation. By looking at Table 4.1 of the Proposition you can see that this is not true. I would also like to quote from the Norwegian Pensioners' Association's letter to the Committee: ‘The guidelines on the adjustment of the basic amount are based on the principle of parallelity in basic and wage developments. In spite of this, the basic amount has been subordinated in all social security settlements in the 1990s, although one has used the guidelines for the regulation of the basic amount adopted by the Storting of 23 May 1991.’ Between 1993 and 1997, the basic amount increased by 3.2 pst, while the average salary growth was 3.6 pst. I would point out that during this period there was a workers' party government that was responsible for the social security settlement. The revised national budget for 1999 provides for a wage increase from 1998 to 1999 of 4.5 p.m. for all groups as a whole. During the discussions on the social security scheme, the State submitted proposals to increase the basic amount by NOK 1580 from NOK 45 370 to NOK 46 950 from 1 May 1999. This implies an increase in the average basic amount from 1998 to 1999 of 4.52 pst. The minimum pension will increase by 7.6 pst from 1998 to 1999. for single and 8.1 pst. for marriage. The proposal for the social security settlement of the year is therefore in line with that of other employees, while the minimum pension resulting from the last year's social security settlement is growing slightly more strongly. The Christian People's Party supports the Government's proposal to raise the basic amount by NOK 1580 to NOK 46 950 from 1 May this year. There has been a discussion in the Committee on the need for new guidelines for the regulation of the basic amount in order to achieve better consistency between the development of the basic amount and the income development of employees it is natural to compare with. I take up the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. Finally, I would like to stress that it is important that public health provides financial security for everyone in old age. I am pleased that studies show that the increased minimum pension has had a good balancing effect. In particular, this is important for the many older women who have done a great deal of unpaid work in their homes and organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2158	Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2161	As has been shown by previous speakers, the Right supports the Government's proposal for a social security settlement this year as well. We have the habit of doing that, even though we're not as satisfied with all the social security arrangements. But it's the government's responsibility and the government's task to get social security settled in port, and therefore the Storting should be very restrained in playing the role of supreme judge, because then it won't be easy to conduct discussions, either in this or in other areas. This does not mean that the Storting does not have the right and the obligation to enter and change a social security settlement. But in my view, it's going to take a lot more than that before you do it, because the Storting takes over a problem that has been added to the Government for good reason. But the Right understands that the organizations have reacted not only to the underregulation of G by this government – I think we are wise to admit some and every one of us who have been in government – but of course they have also reacted to the underregulation of G by previous governments. Underregulation of the G undermines the main idea of the entire population’s fear, namely, the one that several people have had, that it should both respect the so-called standard security, that is, to be sure that the transition from professional activity to pensioner life does not get too abrupt – one should have the opportunity to maintain about the standard and the life you expect. That's one problem. The second problem is to be redistributive. Social security is not an ordinary insurance scheme, but it takes care of both aspects, both a certain aspect of insurance and a certain redistribution, of the groups which, for various reasons, have not had the opportunity or the opportunity to have gainful employment. But after that, it's getting fewer and fewer, fortunately, who don't make up an additional pension. The only problem is that no one will be the minimum pensioner, but everyone will increase the minimum pension, and the two wishes are not that easy to reconcile. It has its sides. The last increase in minimum pensions beyond what one could reasonably expect also shows that it creates problems, it creates a sense of unfairness for all those who have been in work and who may have had both unpaid care and a professional life outside the home. It seems unfair to them that they should not be left with anything more than those who have not had this kind of double life. That's why it's important, I think, that we now realize that so many are entitled to supplementary pensions that you have to think very carefully about what happens if you continue to increase pensions most through the special supplement, and not through a regulation of G. It is important for the Right to ensure the living conditions of pensions and pensioners, and that is why we are concerned about the development that has been taking place for several years, that pensioners have a weaker development in their income than the development of wage growth for those groups with which it is natural to compare. So that's why we're alerting ourselves to the underregulation of the G, which, combined with the large increases in the special supplement, actually weakens the value of the acquired rights. That means that we're not just weakening the value of acquired rights, it also means that we're weakening the confidence of the people's fear and the system that it is and has been since it was introduced in 1967. The right view is positive, is that more and more people see themselves profiting from saving pensions in private schemes as well as from popular welfare because it's a favorable form to save on, it's useful for society, and it's useful for the individual. But we want to keep a public pension scheme that takes care of these two considerations that I had in mind instead. We now believe it is important to try to get into a system where we find a more predictable way to regulate the basic amount. This is why we are working with the Workers' Party and form a majority to ask the Government – to impose on the Government – to come back with proposals for new guidelines for the regulation of the basic amount, and also to consider the possibilities for indexing the G. Looking forward to a good and appropriate system for indexing the G, we have in a way committed ourselves to the mast and will be able to have a system that ensures greater predictability and greater security for future service provision. I think everyone will benefit from getting rid of the annual drawdowns on what's a reasonable increase from one year to another, what's going to be the wage increase, and what's the historical wage growth. There'll always be room for discretion. A certain discretion must always be, but can we find out a system that defines the principles to a greater extent, so that, as I said, we bind ourselves to the mast, I think a lot would be won, and at least the security of future pension payments would be greater and better than today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2178	It is clear from the papers we have received from the organisations that there has been underregulation of the basic amount of popular fear over a number of years. I think it's interesting to hear the considerations, especially from the Workers' Party's Britt Hildeng when she points out that in 1998 there was a particularly strong underregulation, subject to setting up the basis for the minimum pensioners. For if there was a strong underregulation in 1998, how strong must that underregulation have been in 1997, in 1994, in 1993 and in 1991 – for that matter in 1987 – all the years when the Workers' Party was under government responsibility and where there has been some significantly greater underregulation than last year? In any case, SV regrets that there has been underregulation for many years. And when the Storting gets presented from the Government settlement for approval, there's a real political influence in it, which means you have the full opportunity to make use of it. That's what SV wants to do. And here we stand with the Advance Party, except that SV does not go that far in the upgrading. We believe that the bias that took place last year is corrected, and we're at 4.5 pst. In addition to this, negotiations will try to gradually rectify the situation in relation to previous biases. Because there is a lot that needs to be corrected, and you cannot take everything together. I must say that it was a special form of heavy gymnastics that was practiced here both from the Workers' Party and from the Right. Because here you're promoting some kind of criticism of the government, but you're saying that you can't go in and do something, because you don't want to. What really then becomes the basis for the criticism is uncertain. It seems a little strange. In particular, it becomes strange when a proposal for new guidelines is put forward, in which the same wording is used in today's guidelines, with exactly the same wording, 'about in line with the employees', etc. Even if you read this several times, you can't see that the new proposal involves any changes to today's system, and the more evidence is there of some kind of misconception that you don't even go in and take the responsibility that you should take to define the basic amount of people's rights. SV has, as I said, promoted its own proposal, with an adjustment of DKK 1 920 of the basic amount, which corresponds to the 1998 slowdown plus the Government's 1999 proposal. And that is the proposal we are going to make here. Otherwise, we are together with the Progress Party on a good part of the comments, and have the same kind of considerations when it comes to changing the guidelines, which, of course, need to be much more precise. Where one has to stress that regulation is to be done in line with, and not, as it is said here, «in line with», otherwise one will have exactly the same opening as one has today for further underregulation to take place year after year, and then a large number here will sit and toe their hands at the same time as the seemingly want to criticize the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2195	1999 is a special year of income policy. The starting point for the year’s income statement was that after a number of years of moderate cost development, last year’s wage growth was about twice that of our trading partners. It was a common perception in society that such a development could not continue, and, in line with the discussions at an income policy conference before Christmas, a sample for the preparation of the 1999 settlement was set down in January. Both at the conference and in the sample, the main social organisations participated. In the sample, called the Arntsen Committee, after its leader, it was agreed that this year's wage growth should be limited to about 4 1⁄2 p.p., and that from next year onwards it should not be higher than that of the trading partners. The wage-earnings made so far this year have all taken account of this structure, regardless of past developments. The government believes that the social security scheme, which is closely linked to wage-earnings, should also be based on the same. The pensioners’ organisations did not agree to this, and thus no agreement was reached on the settlement of the year. But I would like to commend the organisations for the way the discussions, despite the disagreement, were conducted. It was a good atmosphere, and the discussions took place in a tidy way. With the special background to settlements this year, there should be greater certainty than in previous years that the estimates of wage increases will be maintained so that this year's basic amount will keep up with wages and salaries. So to the guidelines for the regulation of the basic amount and to the decision of the Storting on 17 June last year on procedural discussions. As demonstrated by the proposition, such discussions with the organisations were carried out in three meetings in winter. At the meetings, material was provided from the organisations and from the state. The minutes of the discussions followed by Annex 2 to the Proposition set out the points on which the agreement was reached. It concerns the use of the material from the Technical Calculation Committee in the social security system, the basis on which the estimates for the growth of earnings in the regulatory year are to be based, and the guidelines of the Stortinge of 23 May 1991 for the regulation of the basic amount are to continue to be used. What is not stated in the Protocol itself in the decision of the Storting is how any deviation between expected and actual income development for economically active persons is to be used and understood in the regulation of the basic amount. This, of course, was discussed. Organisations wanted the following additions to the guidelines: ‘If the wage development of economically active workers turns out to have been different from that which was laid down and recorded during the last year’s adjustment of the basic amount, the basic amount shall be adjusted for that difference before the year’s regulation becomes applicable.’; There was no agreement on this. The revised Protocol states that the 1991 guidelines form the basis for discussions on social security arrangements. As you can see from point of view. 5 in the bill, wage developments in the previous year are, of course, also part of the Government's basis for assessing the basic regulation. Together with the evolution of the basic amount in the previous year and the estimates of wage growth in the regulatory year, possible deviations between expected and actual wage growth in the previous year will be part of the assessment basis. However, the government does not see it as natural to allow the regulation to take place in several stages. We believe that the assessment, which has several factors, should lead to an overall adjustment of the basic amount. I am referring to the fact that there has also been an overall proposal for the regulation of the basic amount at the time of the settlements in previous years. I believe that the 1991 Storting guidelines continue to provide an appropriate basis for regulating the basic amount. But of course, I have noticed the proposal of a majority of the committee to ask the government to propose new guidelines, and that it is assumed that the matter will come back to the Storting in good time before the next social security settlement begins. If the proposal is adopted, of course I shall follow it up. Finally, I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that a majority of the Social Committee is joining the Government's proposal to regulate the basic amount and the necessary appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2228	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2232	In the context of the 1999 budget and the draft budget, the Government provided for an under-regulation of the basic amount of 0,3 pst. It's a budget premise that's never changed. Does the Council of State consider such a forward-looking social security settlement to be in line with the intentions of the social security policy? And is this budget premise the reason why the government in this social security settlement did not have a financial framework in which one could go further in securing the development and the slowdown that one has had in regulating the basic amount this year?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2237	It is a difficult question for this Council of States to answer, the question of underregulation of 0.3 pst. I just want to be able to point out what we have done in this payroll, and ask that I get to come back to Hildeng with an answer to this later, as I personally did not participate in the budget work for this year, the time it was presented. So if it can be okay, I have to do it this way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2242	The preparation of the social security system and the meetings that were held with the organisations in this context are not negotiations, but there is more to discussion as one has. At least I have the impression, after reading the minutes from the last social security statements, that there is more of a ‘take it or leave it’ offer from the Government. You probably don't go into negotiations at all in terms of the amounts themselves. At least that's what the signed impression is. But if you want, the Council of States can cancel it. What emerged during the Council of State intervention was the sentence of the decision taken last year, which goes on how expected actual income development is to be understood and used in regulating the basic amount of the population. The council said she could not find any interpretation of it in the protocol. Then is my question to the Council of State: If you don't know how to interpret the decision of the Storting, where is it natural to turn to know how to interpret it?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2254	It's true that that's formally what we call discussions with the organizations. But both last year and this year we have had real negotiations, and at least tried to reach agreement. We've been sitting together trying to come to an agreement, which we haven't made clear. But besides that, if that's the whole formal question, there are discussions. As far as the protocol is concerned, I did not refer to the Stortinge's statements, but to the protocol concluded between the organisations and the Government when it came to the discussion of the procedural discussions. It was a very central topic in the procedural discussions also in the last part of the Storting decision last year, but in the protocol we did not mention these discussions that we had with the organisations. That's because we didn't agree on that part. Of course, it can be discussed whether this should have been mentioned in the Minutes, but it was not, and that is what I was referring to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2261	I'll take a line. I would just like to stress first that SV is promoting the proposal that is made in the vote. We have heard from the Labour Party and the Right about the great concern on the part of the two parties about the underregulation that is taking place. They also come up with proposals for new guidelines, which are difficult to read from what the changes will consist of. I would like to ask the Council of State on the proposal contained in the vote by the majority of the Labour Party and the Right: how does the Council of State view the proposal linked to today's guidelines? What can be expected to result from the proposal – reasonably concretely from the wording of the proposal – as regards changes to guidelines? Can the Council of State give a precise description of what the Council of State considers to be a difference in the proposal in relation to current guidelines?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2270	Olav Gunnar Ballo has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2273	Right in this case, I might have felt the need to ask the Storting about the difference. I think that there is in a way little difference between the guidelines we are conducting the discussions from today and the proposal that exists from a majority in the Grand Duchy. However, what the decision also contains is the need to assess any indexation. In that case, that is new, and we shall of course do so, if this is adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2280	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2283	I note that the Committee agrees with the Government's proposal to increase the basic amount in the population by NOK 1580 to NOK 46 950 from 1 May 1999. The representatives from the Progress Party and SV have other suggestions. The government's proposal is based on an expected increase of 4.5 pst. from 1998 to 1999. It is consistent with, inter alia, the following: the structure of the Arntsen selection, which has been established by the parties to the process this year. It is also consistent with the pay decision so far this year. The government has had discussions with the pensioners' organisations on the procedures for social security payments, as the Stortinget requested in the fall of the state budget for this year. I would like to remind you that the results of the discussions are set out in the minutes agreed between the pensioners’ organisations and the Government, which are printed in the appendix to St.prp. No 78 on social security for this year. As a result of the discussions, from this year on, we have improved the basis for the comparison of the basic regulation. It has been done by inputting total wage trends for wage earners. So we can now give you a better approximation. So this year's discussion is not primarily the level of the basic amount from 1 May this year. Nor are there procedures for implementing the social security scheme, as the size of the farm took place in the fall. Plural wants suggestions for «new guidelines for the regulation of the basic amount so that the insured persons have an income trend in line with the employees to which it is natural to compare». What the majority of the population is now considering is the question of ex post compensation in relation to deviations between actual and projected wage developments in the year or years before the year’s social security settlement. When it comes to the relationship between pension and wage developments, changing governments – not least from the Labour Party – have to point out. As a result, the basic amount over time has increased slightly less than wages. In the period 1993-97, the increase was, for example, an average of 3.2 pst. per 1 % year, while wage growth was 3.6 pst. The government has also prioritised other improvements for the pension list, primarily by increasing the special supplement, so that the minimum pension has been escalated. We took a lift last year, the minimum pension was increased more than in any other year in the history of the people. We did so at the same time by adding an increase in the basic amount approximately in line with the projected income development for wage earners. I'm surprised by the representative Britt Hildeng's claim that last year the item was so special different than any other item. I'm saying that it was especially at one point, and that was the increment in the special supplement. Last year's social security scheme benefited most from the lowest income, while at the same time all pensioners received a real increase in income. 66,000 minimum pensioners received NOK 1000 more per year. month. 330,000 pensioners receive additional special supplements, less they have more of other income. But it wasn't just about social security last year. In that case, when the issue of taking into account deviations between actual and expected wage increases ex post, the Government stated in the proposition that it would ‘be included in the basis for the assessment in the regulation of the basic amount of the individual year’. I understand the majority so that this will formalize something more, and the government is also asked to evaluate wage indexing. We must, of course, do that, which will lead to greater ties in economic policy that a government can lead to at any time. And I'm assuming that the multiples also add up to that. An automatic wage indexing of the basic amount will make discussions with the pensioners' organisations unnecessary. On the other hand, it can contribute to greater security compared to the future real value of pension credits that are being lit up today. It depends on how you index. I'd like to see the majority who ask us to look at the guidelines, evaluate the minority proposal that deals with the same thing, and that would be more consistent with the other management of the statement from these two parties.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2316	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2319	Of course, when the majority asks for proposals for new guidelines, it is based on an assessment that the guidelines we have today do not take good care of the intentions, and this whole debate on social security settlement has shown that. In the context of the previous social security settlement and budget, it was demonstrated that the system of raising the minimum pension could create problems in relation to the legislation relating to the housing aid scheme and the level of housing aid. In this context, a majority in the European Parliament supported the following proposals: ‘The government is asking for a new review of the housing aid legislation in the light of the increase in the minimum pension of NOK 12000. The case should be submitted in such a way that treatment may be carried out in parallel with the treatment of the social security scheme.» I cannot see that there have been any signals from the Council of State on how this proposal has been followed up. I would like to have an explanation for that. I also assume that this Council of State, which has included and made budgetary premises, can say something about these budget premises, where one assumed that the basic amount would be underregulated by 0.3 pst. Maybe this council could answer the two questions I asked instead.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2334	It is the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs that manages the regulations for the support of buildings. They have notified a review of the legislation. At the same time, they have assumed that as long as today's legislation is in force, it should not increase the minimum pension, but they have announced a review of the support legislation and are in the process of doing so. So to the question of underregulation. It was an important theme in the context of the autumn budget management. It was an invitation from the Government to take a joint lift to secure a defensive budget. Then there were three proposals that were related. It was an invitation for all healthy workers in this country to deliver a holiday. There was an extension of the employer’s period in connection with sick leave, and there was an underregulation of the basic amount of 0.3 pst. If so, the first two, which were involved in the budgetary procedure, will be taken. Then it was underlined from the Government's side that we saw these three questions in context. It was therefore never appropriate to involve them in spring's social security. I also mean that what was announced by the Government in the budget was that there was an expected wage increase of 5 pst. and that what was involved in the various items in relation to the social security bill was 4.7 pst. We chose to have wage increases and regulation of the basic amount monitored, with 4.5 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2343	Initially, I would just like to say that I understand well that the Danish Council of State is having serious problems interpreting the proposal of the Workers' Party and the Right, at least in terms of the wording of the first part, of new guidelines. As I see it, the part that it's interesting to look at, is the one that's dealing with index regulation. So to the statements of the Minister of Social Affairs. One of her arguments was that by indexing the basic amount, the discussions with the organizations would go away – it actually seemed like she was worried about it. I don't think that's what they're most concerned about in the organizations, they're rather interested in getting an increase in the basic amount. So just one more thing: the Christian People's Party and the Center Party have promoted their own proposal on what to do with the guidelines. The government’s own representatives in Stortinget are asking the Government to assess the need for new guidelines for the regulation of the basic amount. Then my question is: does the Council of State need such a proposal from its own groupings in the Grand Duchy in order to take an initiative to look at the guidelines, or is this an area that the Council of State considers independently?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2357	First of all, the discussions that are being conducted. There's two arrangements in connection with that. One is discussions on social security issues with organisations, the other is discussions on the state budget, where organisations present to the Government what action they think should be given priority to both pensioners and people with disabilities. I am responsible for that part of the budget, and for coordination and coordination with other departments, so that organisations gather together the opportunity to clarify as well as support schemes and care for the elderly as well as different measures for the disabled, which they advise on should be given priority. They make this a requirement, but that kind of meeting is also a discussion. So another good question, from Harald T. Nesvik, is the need for this minority proposal. It is quite right, as he pointed out, that such initiatives can be taken by the Government itself. I consider this proposal to be an input in relation to the plural proposal that is being made. I would have liked both the Labour Party and the Right to assess it more closely. I think that would be more consistent with their emphasis on the fact that they really don't want to dictate a negotiating arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2364	This is a forward-looking proposal. We don't want to go in and dictate. But when we see that the Government follows to a small extent the intentions set out in the guidelines, we ask for new guidelines that provide tighter lines for the negotiating room that the Government is to have.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2369	Both the Council of State Davøy and I have stressed that we should follow up on the assessments that one of us has asked for. But it must be allowed to perform a never so little wonder in relation to the exposure that is this year — a year in which one has actually relied on a given relative to an expected wage development. And here not least the Labour Party has a history to show.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2376	So the chord change is over. The speakers who have the floor hereafter have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2381	It is and has been a bit of a shadow debate that has led up to now from the same majority as for as long as I have been on the Stortinget, the same position has been taken, namely that pensioners should not have the wage developments of employees. These are the realities of the matter we are now dealing with. For the guidelines, you only have to have a "line-by-line" and then you use this "layer-by-layer". This is where the problem itself has lie every year in relation to the underregulation of pensions. And as long as you're going to keep these guidelines in line with the words, we don't get off the spot. It is quite amazing that the Workers' Party and the Right are promoting a proposal to the Government that involves exactly the same thing as what we are already doing today, except this with the index. Why don't you be honest and say straight: we don't want pensioners to have the same wage trend as employees. We could then avoid this whole debate. But here we have used a flood of words from different parties from the majority to misplace the whole problem. And then you're so free that you say you don't think it's right that pensioners don't get a development in line with employees. But what do you do? Nothing. And then this statement that also comes from parts of the majority, that the Storting cannot go in and make about the government proposal. Why do we have cases to deal with in Stortinget, if we can't do anything? We can do something if we want to do something. Yes, it's totally incomprehensible to me. Then you criticize a government. So do I, and I'll go a little bit further in my criticism. I should have liked to see the so-called Value Commission that this Government has reduced, so this and the treatment we have given to pensioners now for 10 – 15 years with different governments. One government is by no means better than the other, and there is no need to criticize this government in particular. They've all followed the same template. The losers have become the pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2392	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[See page 4057]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2406	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4061]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2421	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4061]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2435	This is a very good setting. This was also the case last year, and then it was said to read in the paper a little in the autumn when it became clear that the government had not intended to compensate for the payroll in the municipal sector: not even the payroll that the government had negotiated in the municipal sector, namely for the teachers, was compensated in the government budget. And that was agreed by the majority in Stortinget. I had an interpellation on the theme, and the Stortinget said it was not reasonable to compensate for the heads, it was wrong. But in your own business, the Storting and the Government think that's the way it should be. I also think that's how it should be. But I can't quite understand why we're going to make such a difference, and what it is that the local government sector can make adjustments where they don't get compensated for a paycheck, while the country's own business is going to be treated differently. I think it's unreasonable, and I'm missing a context in what we do, both from the Government and from the Storting, that the payroll in the public sector is managed in a slightly more comprehensive and coherent way below. I expect that we will get the same round for the fall, and this year is not so big as the payroll had a completely different amount this year than it had last year. But last year it meant a great deal. It was a proper and good settlement. It was a necessary settlement that came, and so was it in the state. It's a settlement for the teachers we're talking about here, and the mayor has, among other things, have attended the pulpit today and said that it is likely that teachers should also receive better pay, as this is necessary for the school to be well enough. I give my full support to it. But I just want to remind both the Government and the Government that it is a paycheck that also affects the local government sector. Suffering if the state doesn't sit and negotiate at all the tables there, they'll be sitting there after all they know. I think it would have been reasonable and fair to have at least compensated for the wage settlements that had been negotiated before, and that it had certainly been seen that there is an equal need to have proper pay and working conditions in the municipal sector as it is in the state. I hope the Council of State will remember that, because when I traveled the interpellation in the fall, the person who is the Council of State now was one of the people I consulted with, and who thought it was a useful interpellation, which definitely pointed out in an area where there was a great gap, which should be corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2446	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox [[See page 4061]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2462	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 15th [[See page 4062]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2475	It is to be voted on on on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2482	Ten proposals have been put forward during the debate: proposal No 1, by Lodve Solholm on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Right-wing proposals No. 2 and 3, by Lodve Solholm on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. 4, by Sverre J. Hoddevik on behalf of the The Socialist Left Party's proposals are first voted on, then on the proposal from the Right, then on the proposals from the Progress Party, then on the proposal from the Progress Party and the Right, and finally on the vote. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5-10, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals in the next year’s budget to reduce the tax on sickness and the self-payment rates for kindergarten and school leisure arrangements.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to promote changes in the income system which increase inter-municipal income so that the population can receive a more equivalent offer regardless of the municipality or municipality in which they live.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to establish a financing mechanism for the costs of establishment relating to inter-municipal measures.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government requests the setting up of the transitional arrangements resulting from the introduction of current anti-balancing of income, in order to compensate municipalities for a lack of income or to attract increases in income for 1998 and 1999 at the level of cohesion under the old scheme.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The budget proposal for 2000 calls on the Government to propose a state top-level funding scheme for particularly resource-intensive users of municipal services.The scheme shall require a fixed local percentage and a state full-financing of needs in addition.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose a phasing out plan for State subsidies to public transport.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2541	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the draft government budget for the autumn with proposals to include the following earmarked grants to the municipalities in the framework grant: Cape. 221 Item 63 Cap. Grants to the school leisure scheme. 221item 66 Compensation of salary, clay school education, Cape Town. 221post 67 Supplements to music and cultural schoolsCap. Item 234 Item 60 Grants for the dissemination of reform apprenticesChapter. 322item 61 Grants to county cultural tasksChap. 326post 60 Mobile library service and library facilitiesMap. 616item 60 Contributions to prevention and competence measuresChapter. 705post 60 Recruitment, etc. by health professionalsMap. 705 entry 61 Tournament service, further education and training, etc. Cape. 705item 62 Business internal education and training, etc.Cap.1330item 60 Fee compensation for coachesCap.1427item 60 Municipal nature managementCap.1427item 62 Contributions to the Intercommunal Outdoor CouncilCap.1441item 62 Local Agenda 21, development of environmental-friendly communities.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2662	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to base the government budget for 2000 on reducing the base rate by one-third and including the savings in this respect in the overall framework of the transfer to the local government sector. The basic approach will be to reduce by new thirds of the day’s level in 2001 and 2002 to a complete end in 2003.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to lift the North Norway proposal.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2683	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: «The estimate for 2000 shall be as follows: State 9,9 pst.The counties 6,6 pst.The municipalities 11,5 pst.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2723	The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Center Party have the position.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2740	The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party have the position.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2769	The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party have the position.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2786	The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party have the position.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2811	There is a vote on the proposal by the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by the meeting of the Odelsting on 10 June 1999: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals for legislative revision as soon as possible, where membership of student relations is voluntary.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2827	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 10 June 1999: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit a notification based on an assessment of the organisation and the economy associated with a rights-based access to training in Braille for the feeble and blind as an addition to ordinary education for the blind and partially sighted. The training shall take place either in the punctuation environment or integrated into the ordinary school at the student’s own request.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2842	During the debate, nine proposals have been put forward. It's: proposal No 1, by Brother Yngve Rahm on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Left Proposals No. 2-4, by Mr Korsberg, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and in particular Mr Korsberg, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats). 5, by Brother Yngve Rahm on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left Proposals No. 6 and 7, by Mr Korsberg, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 8, by Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, No. 9, from Inge Myrvoll on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The President proposes that voting be put to the vote as follows: first, there is a vote on proposal No. 2 by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 9, of the Socialist Left Party, then of the proposals No. 6 and 7 by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities 8, from Once we have reached this point, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution of the sitting, and the President will come back to the motions for resolutions. One, three, five. – No objections have been raised, and this is what will be done. Proposal No. 2, from the Advancement Party and the Right, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. St. pp. No 52 on state-owned industrial contracts and leases are returned to the Government. [[1998-99]] 2nd@item: inlistbox The Government is asked to clarify in advance the principles for the award of power contracts with ESA before resubmitting the matter to the Grand Duchy during the autumn of 1999.’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2884	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The price of the industrial power regime is set at 12,50 øre, provided binding agreements on energy efficiency improvement and greenhouse gas reductions’.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2898	Proposals Nos. 6 and 7, from the Party of Advancement, shall be taken up for voting. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to make the necessary proposals to abolish the State’s pre-emptive power plant.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: «The order of repatriation to the State of private power plants is repealed as the ownership of the power plants remains on a permanent basis with the current owners.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2919	There is a vote on proposal No. 8 from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate the repurchasing of facilities by concessionaires who, in the years 1957-66, entered into agreements with the State on arrears, subject to conditions equivalent to those imposed by the amendment of Section 41 of the Industrial Concession Act and the Watercourse Regulatory Act § 20a of 11 June 1993. Government SF is required through the business meeting to negotiate the sale of the installations concerned.» The Progress Party will support the proposal in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2935	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the Government to make the necessary proposals for the sub-privatisation and listing of State forces.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2964	The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left have the position. The Progress Party and the Right support subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2979	There is an aberrant proposal here. That is proposal No. 5, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The scope of industrial power contracts is extended by one additional company placed in category 2 – Becromal, Notodden’.» The Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party have the position and receive subsidiary support from the Progress Party. The right supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e2995	After this vote, the President will draw attention to proposal No. 3, from the Advancement Party and the Right. A decision has now been taken on the substance of the recommendation by the Progress Party and the Right, and the President assumes that the proposers will now draw up proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox It's nodding. – Proposal No. So 3 is drawn. We shall then vote on the second part of the motion for a resolution, to which there is an aberrant proposal, no. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Right Party, the Center Party, and the Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government agrees that the Ministry of Oil and Energy is authorised to offer leases to the companies and under the terms and conditions set out in St.prp. [[1998-99]] No 52 The President assumes that the Progress Party will support the proposal. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e3025	The President will now allow Roman numerals III and IV to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e3048	It'll be over the Roman numerals IV and V.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e3065	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e3078	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Annelise Høegh, on behalf of the Right, submitted by the meeting of the Odelsting on 10 June 1999: «The size of the case asks the Government in line with the recommendations of NOU 1997:18, Re-priority, set up representative disciplines to advise on priorities within its own discipline, and a coordinating permanent priority committee to advise on priorities between patient groups.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e3091	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e3105	During the debate, Mr Hedstrøm has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requests the Government to assist in the continuation of the emergency medical response at the Askim hospital at the level per year. 1 January 1999 until the emergency notification based on NOU 1998:9 «In case of urgency... Professional requirements for emergency medical preparedness» have been addressed by Stortinget.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e3126	During the debate, Britt Hildeng put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requests the Government to reintroduce the previous minimum income limit of 50 pst. of G for sickness benefits with effect from 1 September 1999. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e3137	The proposal of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party and then the vote will be voted on first.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e3157	During the debate, Mr Alvheim put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, and this proposal has been distributed in the Chamber. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks that the preparation of buprenorphine ‘Subutex’ be authorised by a specialist in psychiatry, internal medicine and general medical specialist for the treatment of narcotics.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e3216	The proposal for a decision is a transmission proposal in its form and the President proposes that it be forwarded to the Government without any rebuttal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e3422	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party proposal No. 2, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 3, by Mr T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 4, from Olav Gunnar Ballo on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The proposal by the Party for the Advancement Party is the first to be voted on, then on the proposal by the Socialist Left Party, then on the proposal by the Party for the Advancement Party and the Socialist Left Party, then on the proposal by the Christian People's Party and the Central Party and then on the vote. This is only a matter of vote on the proposal by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I.The amount of the budget for the population is set at NOK 47 570 with effect from 1 May 1999.II.The budget for 1999 is amended as follows: Cape. 660War pension:70Contributions, military, estimate appropriations, are increased by NOK 290000000 to NOK 299 400000 to NOK 40000071Contributions, civilians, estimate appropriations, are increased by NOK 690000 to NOK 712 300000 to NOK 22 300000. 664 Seafarers' Pensions:70Contributions, increased by NOK 193000000 to NOK 199 200000 to NOK 6 200 000 to NOK 200000. [[(see section 4.4). cap. 5701):]] 666Agreement-related pension
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e3816	The proposal of the Socialist Left Party is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I.The amount of the budget is set at NOK 47 290 with effect from 1 May 1999.II.The budget is amended as follows: Cape. 660War pension:70Contributions, military, allocation of estimates, increased by NOK 290000000 to NOK 298 200000 DKK8 200 00071Contributions, civilians, allocation of estimates, increased by NOK 690000 000 to NOK 709 500000 to NOK 19 500 000Cape. 664 Seafarers' Pensions:70Contributions, increased by NOK 193000000 to NOK 198 400000 to NOK 5 400000 to Chapter. [[(see section 4.4). cap. 5701):]] 666Agreement-related pension The President assumes that the Progress Party will support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e4195	The proposal of the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: «Annual adjustment guidelines for the basic amount of the population benefit are amended to:After discussions in advance with pension funds organisations, the Government proposes to the Government to regulate the basic amount of the population benefit.The regulation of the basic amount usually takes place on 1 May of each year.The objective of the regulation shall be to provide the basic amount with a trend in income in line with the developments in the income of the working population and in line with the principles and objectives underlying the implementation of the income policy approach. It shall be accompanied by a background material showing the expected income development figure for economically active persons and other factors having an impact on the determination of the basic amount. The material shall also show how income trends have been for economically active and retired people in recent years. If the wage development of economically active workers is found to have been different from the one envisaged and recorded in the previous adjustment of the basic amount, the basic amount shall be adjusted for this deviation before the year’s regulation becomes applicable.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e4217	The proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party is then addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to assess the need for new guidelines for the regulation of the basic amount in order to achieve better consistency between the development of the basic amount and the income development of employees it is natural to compare with.The size assumes that any proposal will be submitted to the Storting in good time before the next social security settlement begins.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e4657	Are Nose – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e4660	I would recommend the representatives of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left to vote against the third vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e4665	Then we have to take separate feeding. We vote first over the settings I and II, and then over the settings III.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e4699	The Advance Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e4959	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Per Sandberg on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Right, transmitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 8 June 1999: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose the repeal of the Opening Time Act.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16-2.ana.ud637e4978	There is no record.
