ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e51	The President will propose that Mr Odelstinget deal with the supplementary agenda on the ordinary agenda. No objections to this proposal have been raised. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President will also draw attention to the fact that the supplementary agenda has not been distributed in the Chamber, but it will come.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e63	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 237]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e77	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 237]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e91	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 50 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 40 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and the representative Mikalsen 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the insertion of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e102	The issue we are dealing with today in the Storting is the biggest change in the legislation that regulates the labour market, since the 1960s. This law will therefore have a major impact on both workers and employers throughout the country. The interest in the matter has been and is enormous, which I understand very well, as the extensive changes that are going to be adopted here today. When changes are needed, it is because the labour market has changed radically since the 1960s. However, it is important to stress that the main principle of Norwegian working life should remain permanent, even after these changes. But it's a fact that people today change jobs more often than they did before, and fewer and fewer get gold bells after long and faithful service in the same business through a long working life. In addition, in the years to come, there will be a need for many more temporary workers, not least as a result of the reforms adopted to give people more time, for example. parental leave and the major reform of continuing education. I also think more workers in the future will want more flexibility because more people want more time for other things than just working. It in itself makes that there will be a need for more temporary workers. In addition, it is also the case that some people get a regular job only after they have tried themselves as temporary workers. This is especially true of our new compatriots, and especially of some of the youngest and our oldest workers. Many people are not even invited to interview for regular jobs. But after trying to work as a temporary worker, there is a part that gets a regular job. Therefore, this can also help to get more people into the labour market more permanently. When reality and the world around us change, the regulatory framework must also be adapted to the time we live in. Today's legislation has survived itself, but we in the Workers' Party were disappointed by the proposal made by the Council of State of Davøy, because it took too little account of the rights of workers. The fact that the Right Party and the Advance Party immediately said that they could subsidize so to speak the entire regime of the Government says a little about how liberal the proposal was initially. It is not surprising or new that the right-hand side of Norwegian policy is more concerned with ensuring the flexibility of employers than the rights of employees, but I had actually expected something more from a Christian People's Party State Council. I am therefore pleased that it was possible to reach a compromise with the centre parties here in Stortinget, which leads to restrictions on essential points in favour of the workers. This was also absolutely necessary. Of course, we would have wanted to have a majority for all our proposals, which had taken care of the employees in an even better way, but unfortunately it was not possible to do so. But the compromise is significantly better than what was the starting point of the government, and for people out in the workplace, the result is that it counts, not political markings. Of course, we could have chosen to stand on our primary proposal, and dropped the flag to the top, but it had not helped anything to the many who work around the country, as long as it was not the majority for our primary setup. That is why I am actually pleased that the centre parties here in Stortinget, despite the fact that they supported their proposal from the Right and the Advance Party, chose to make a compromise with the Workers' Party. I now want to take to heart what the changes are all about. There is a broad consensus that private employment services should be allowed, but an important prerequisite for this is that private employment services should not be able to charge the jobseeker. Jobs are already being disseminated in different ways today. It is not just the PES who is responsible for that job. First of all, the Internet has come to stay, and some people get jobs online. Moreover, it is neither desirable nor possible to make any prohibitions against it. Headhunting is today about more than top leaders, and about half of the communication is via friends and acquaintances. In addition, there has been no adverse effect on workers that the ban on private communication has been lifted in other countries. I also feel quite sure that the PES will be strongly in competition with the private sector, because there is a great deal of expertise there and because they have a nationwide network. I also think it is positive if more people will try to get jobs for jobseekers. In order to ensure the seriousness of the activities that will provide employment, a claim will be made for a limited liability company or equivalent funds as equity capital. It is also important to stress that there is a broad consensus that we should continue to have a large, powerful and nationwide public employment service in Norway. From our point of view, it is also important to stress that labour market measures must be at a high level and proportionate to actual unemployment. In terms of unemployment, we are making the biggest change today. This has been banned until now, as a general rule, with some exceptions belonging to a time gone and that were random. That is why we are in favour of this legislation now being reflected, so that labour hire and hire is allowed. This also applies to the health sector, because when the legislation is reflected, it should apply to everyone and should not exempt anyone in particular, as originally proposed by the Government. In addition, the situation in a part of our hospitals is such that it is necessary for a period of time to be able to treat as many patients as possible. I don't think it's interesting to notice that some hospitals think it's cheaper to rent in, for example. Nurses than letting those employed there work even more overtime. So when it's said that it's always more expensive to rent in, that argument doesn't hold water. This is an argument used to exclude parts of the health sector from the LFS rule. But the main point here must be that we're able to treat as many patients as possible. However, the majority, consisting of the Labour Party and the Centre Parties, authorises the Government to exempt certain occupational groups from the general rule for periods for which important social interests would require it. The government must follow closely the development and use of unemployment and provide an evaluation of the functioning of the new law two to three years after the law has entered into force. Furthermore, there is agreement that enterprises can use workers from temporary employment agencies as a general rule when access to temporary employment is granted under Section 58 A of the Working Environment Act. in vicariates or in the event of seasonal fluctuations. A six-month quarantine period is added in order to be able to re-rent to their former employer. So the government has proposed that only the lessee can sue the lessee. We in the Workers' Party disagree. We believe that there should also be room for the union to have that opportunity. Unfortunately, we record that there is no majority in favour of this, and therefore support the proposal of the secondary government. In the case of rentals from ordinary enterprises, the Workers' Party's proposal was that it should be agreed with the trustees on a case-by-case basis. Unfortunately, it was not possible to get a majority for this, but we are at least happy that there was no break-up about the Government's proposal, which had meant that one could rent in 15 pst. of a staff of more than two years, without agreement with the trustees. I'm surprised that the government put up such a liberal line, which, for the rest, NHO was the principal speaker in the Blaalid Committee. All employees’ representatives wanted a tighter code at this point, but were not heard by the Government. I don't think anyone deserves to know that we don't have any control at this point, and at least the employees. I am therefore pleased that it was possible to make a deal with the center parts, which means that you can rent in 10 pst. of a staff of more than one year instead of 15 pst. over two years, which is a narrowing in relation to the Government's proposals. It's important here to clarify that all rentals over 10 pst. shall be agreed with the trustees. In addition, it is important to stress that all rentals are less than 10 pst. will be discussed with the elected representatives. This obligation to discuss is now being legalised. It is now also open to provide some services to employers in return for payment. Current payment services will include, inter alia: be extended manning services, temporary work contracts, special conversion/overall assistance and assistance to employers for course planning, etc. Such an extension of labour market services could provide employers and jobseekers with a better offer than at present, and it is also likely to help bring more jobseekers with problems in relation to the labour market into regular employment. We saw that, among other things. example of a visit to the municipality of Ringzag earlier this autumn by the Municipal Committee. Ringsaker Municipality, as one of the first municipalities in the country, has, in cooperation with the labour market seat, started with a temporary work pool in the care sector. I think the entire committee was impressed by what we saw and heard. The system ensures that both employees in the employment service and local government employees are allowed to do what they are best at. This means, for example: that nurses in nursing homes do not spend much of their working time calling for temporary workers. Instead, they can do what they're going to do, that's to take care of the old and the sick. The Employment Service is now taking care of the temporary employment agency, and with this project the unemployment rate has been reduced. The payment of the daily allowance has decreased, and the municipality has also saved money. We also see that more of these have been mobilised in jobs, more jobs in larger jobs than before, also among those who often have difficulties in the labour market. This arrangement also improves the quality of services when people get time to do the job they really should, instead of getting temporary workers. This is basically a ‘win-win’ situation for all parties, which should be made nationwide as soon as possible. With today's setting it will be opened, and I hope it will happen quickly. This will contribute to the essential modernisation and efficiency of the public sector, and not least in the health and care sector, where there is a shortage of people. However, this would be equally important within kindergartens, school leisure schemes, to use other examples. When we now lift the ban on private employment services, and thus there will be competition between public and private, we in the Workers' Party believe that this must also apply, of course, when it comes to hiring temporary workers. Today, in fact, private temporary employment agencies have a monopoly on this, and here, too, the public must have the opportunity to participate properly. It is therefore necessary to establish a significant, large public rental company that can hire temporary workers so that we have a real competition. The Workers' Party and the Centre Parties agree that the State company should seek to achieve important labour policy objectives, in particular contribute to the integration of vulnerable groups into the labour market. It is also important to stress that the company should be an instrument for developing the service provision currently provided by the labour market set to meet an increasing and wider demand for labour market services. We believe that this service offer should be developed in line with the needs and demand of the labour market, and that the company's facilities and framework conditions should therefore not restrict employers' access to services from the company and the establishment. The government is now going to come back with a separate case on this, so all the details we get back to then, but for the Workers' Party there is a clear logic that this should be an extension of the labour market seat with the competence and the nationwide network we have there. It is also important to note that the majority of the Committee requires that the State company be operational when the legislative changes come into force. This is to ensure that the new state rental company also has a real opportunity to be a significant player in the temporary employment sector. Finally, we agree that the Board of Directors of the Directorate of Labour will be turned into a council with extended representation from both the employee and employer sides. I would therefore recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e151	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e154	I noticed that Sylvia Brustad in his post explained what the Workers' Party had done in this matter, and boasted that they had managed to limit and tighten up the Government's proposal. In any case, it must be allowed to suggest that there has been a small revolution in the Labour Party over a very short period of time in terms of the view of private employment services and the private provision of labour. The Labour Party has now contributed to a broad political consensus that private employment services and private employment agencies are a positive complement to creating a flexible and well-functioning Norwegian labour market. However, the Workers' Party's new acceptance of the liberalisation of the law for the distribution of rentals has hardly happened without any difficulty, since the party has also been in favour of some strange special arrangements and restrictions in a number of areas. Among other things, the Workers' Party will have state temporary employment agencies. The lot will have a six-month quarantine before a person can be hired into the same enterprise in which he has previously been employed. Furthermore, the Workers' Party will restrict the rental to only 10 pst. of those added before you have to ask the union about law. Finally, but perhaps worst, the Workers' Party wishes to give the Government the power to exempt certain occupational groups from unemployment if ‘important social and other circumstances require it’, as it says in the suspension, and to which Sylvia Brustad referred in his statement. Then it is interesting to ask which occupational groups are the main concerns in this context, and what is the rationale that the very core of the law should be able to be repealed by a regulation every time the Government finds it too good. As the rapporteur of the case, the chairperson of the Committee, Sylvia Brustad, should be able to respond to the professional groups it is primarily intended to do so with regard to exemptions, while responding to the important social and labour-market concerns of the Labour Party, which would enable the Government to infringe the law and exempt certain professional groups from the general rule of a free labour market for renting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e161	Let me first say that I am not least surprised that the Progress Party is not particularly concerned with employees' rights. It also applies to the handling of this case. The Labour Party is committed to adapting the legislation we have at all times in all areas to the reality we live in. We have also done so in dealing with this matter. What I think is interesting in the line taken by Torbjørn Andersen to me is that when he criticises us for allowing the public also to become a significant player, for example. compared to renting temporary workers, it's wrong. Then we have to note that the Progress Party is only in favour of competition as long as it is in favour of the private sector. So now we're opening up private employment services, so there'll be real competition between private and public. Why shouldn't that competition also apply when we talk about hiring temporary workers? Why is it that the Progress Party believes that private individuals should have a monopoly on renting temporary workers? I note that this is the position of the Progress Party. I think it's completely strange. With regard to the issue of the reversal of legislation in relation to unemployment, I stressed in my speech that when we now say yes to unemployment, it should apply in all sectors – including the health sector. I have also explained why I think that is right. When we then give the Government an authority to, whose important social reasons would be for it, to put its foot down for a period of time, it is something that the Government has to consider. But this will vary over time. Ten years ago, it was the building sector – in ten years’ time, there may be completely different sectors. So the government has to evaluate that. But there are clear indications in what we have said: there must be important societal considerations, and there should only be periods, and no sector should be permanently exempted. Leases shall apply to all initially, and therefore there must be serious reasons to derogate from them, but that authority has been given to the Government, with some leadership.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e172	Let me begin by admitting that I have a pretty good day today. I feel that proposals we have repeatedly promoted, and that four years ago, workers' party officials called another example of right-wing forces attacking welfare systems in Norway, are actually being adopted today by a very broad majority. There is still something that amazes me in relation to the Workers' Party: I see the first part of Sylvia Brustad's contribution was like hearing what we have argued about for many years, and as both Rune E. Kristiansen and Gunnar Berge said was not true in a debate four years ago, namely, that you got easier jobs if you, for example. I went through a suburb. What amazes me is that the area in which you have chosen to narrow down is the area in which Municipal Minister Gunnar Berge thought so well in the debate four years ago, namely renting between production companies. In that area Gunnar Berge said in 1995: ‘In view of the requirements of the manufacturing enterprises applying for access to the provision of labour, workers’ rights are guaranteed, and one avoids unprofessional enterprises that primarily want to make money to hire out other people’s labour force. In other words, this pooling system ensures the rights of workers in a satisfactory and reassuring manner. ‘... The proposal that the Government has promoted, I see as confirming the practice that has actually been in that area for many years. So why is it that you do a complete turnaround in one area in relation to the main principles of the law, while taking the tightening up of the area in which the Workers' Party was actually satisfied in this room four years ago in terms of practice and regulation?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e184	There is no basis for saying that the Workers' Party has been satisfied with the state of the labour market in relation to unemployment in recent years. What we have seen is that despite the fact that, as a general rule, this has been banned, with some exceptions, by some companies on a large scale, and I also believe that in some companies there is good reason to ask questions about whether it has been fully in line with the legislation that has been in force. But now leave it. When we're busy and happy that together with the centre parties, we've got a majority to tighten something up in relation to when you have to have an agreement with the trustees, it's because we want orderly relationships in the world of work. In fact, if you could do as the Government suggests, you could rent up to 15 pst. in the case of large enterprises, there will be a very large number of people. In addition, we have the confidence in employees and trust leaders around the country that everyone wants their businesses well. That's why it's an advantage to play with the employees around the companies. So it was very liberal what the government proposed, and it was in line with what the NHO said, but it was not at all in line with what any of the employee organisations meant. On the contrary, they called for some tightening in that area. What's also a new situation and a new case now is that we flip the whole code, so that now there's going to be a much larger amount of working time allowed than was the case before. It also suggests that there is a need for some driving rules in this area. The obligation to discuss shall be laid down by law, which shall apply from person no. 1, and it shall be agreed in the case of rentals in excess of 10 pst. That's how we actually think it has to be. It is important that employers and employees play on the team. I note that the Right is not so concerned about the rights of employees in relation to that either, but that is not much news.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e193	This is the biggest change in Norwegian working life in very many years," says Sylvia Brustad, and in that case, the Workers' Party has become a confusion similar to the Right and has rotted far into the center. Can the Workers' Party explain why this kneel trap has happened for 12 hours? And what did Yngve Hågensen say to the Workers' Party that made it turn around? So Sylvia Brustad says she's busy with orderly employment in the workplace. Yes, I also thought the Workers' Party was. But how are you going to ensure an orderly job when no rights are now granted to the trade movement, and when renting is now going to increase significantly? Because it's not the extent in itself that's the most serious, but it's that now there's no one here to control. Now there are no proper control activities either by the trade unions or the authorities. Who, then, is there to check that these arranged conditions actually continue to exist? How can you imagine the situation in Norwegian working life going forward when there is no such control? Won't there be more people who have to go to temporary positions this year after year? There are no more people who will be hired out and hired out between companies over a long period of time, and it becomes so that the conditions in these workplaces become very inconclusive, and that it becomes like, among other things. The tax director fears that this is going to promote the black economy quite strongly? I think it's worrying, and I could imagine hearing what it is that is really the reason of the Workers' Party to go in for this. Is it true that the Labour Party really thinks it's okay?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e202	In the Workers' Party we choose to relate to the reality that is around us, both the reality that is outside this house, and the political reality that is in this house. And there it is that the sail of the Workers' Party and SV primarily agree with many of the questions in this area – although not on all – and we had stood here and fought for it until we were blue or white in the face, it had not helped any of the world's things, because unfortunately we don't have a majority in this room. It is the majority in this Chamber that decides what will become the current legislation at all times. It also applies in this area. Then the Workers' Party's assessment was as follows: If we are not able to get a pass on all our primary proposals, it is, after all, much better to get some tightening in relation to the Government's arrangements, which we believe were too liberal. We are happy that we got to it with the center parties, and I also feel absolutely convinced that for the workers around the country, the results are the ones that count. Then it means that we have been tightened up when it comes to agreeing with the trustees, then it means that we get a large public operator when it comes to temporary employment, that means that we get an evaluation of the law after a certain time, etc., etc. It does not help to protest against the whole world when the majority in this Chamber wants anything else, and then the Labour Party, like LO, believes that there is a better compromise that means significant tightening in some areas of workers' rights than protesting against the whole world and not getting to any things of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e207	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e211	I have taken the time to browse the archive when it concerns the size and issues of private employment services and temporary workers. I have not gone back any further than 1987, but there is a monthly amount of settings in which these matters have been dealt with in Stortinget. What distinguishes them is that in these cases there have been two wings. It has our right and progress party on one side that has fought for us to get private employment services in this country, that it should be allowed by private operators on rentals, and that there should be the possibility of operating both rents and rents. On the other hand, we have had the Workers' Party, the intermediate parties and the museum guards in SV, who have seen themselves on their hind legs. What's weird is that in the Inst. S. No 88 for 1997-98, the following proposals from the Progress Party and the Right were submitted: «The decision asks the Government with immediate effect to grant exemption from Section 26 of the Employment Act and Section 27 for private employment agencies and rental companies for all types of health professionals. ‘... We are actually dealing with this last February, and then the plurality in this Chamber voted this down. Now the leader of the committee and working party member Sylvia Brustad says that it is right and important not to keep health professionals away from renting because it is necessary to treat the most possible patients. Yes, that was actually what the Right Party and the Advance Party meant a year ago, because then we also had a big health crisis, where there were too little nurses. That is what caused us, among other things, promote the proposal in that setting, that we should be able to get more nurses to work in hospitals, so that we could treat the patients who needed it. But no – then one voted it down. Then Sylvia Brustad can stand on this pulpit and say that the Progress Party is not interested in people's welfare. I would advise you to remember that when you point to others, there are always three fingers pointing back to yourself, it can sometimes be a little reasonable to remember – so I always point with an open hand. What's a little strange about this case is that all of a sudden we've got a relationship, and all of a sudden everyone outside the museum guards turned around and realized that this might be a reasonable suggestion. In fact, the Right Party and the Advance Party have once again got a case on the table where we have gone in the breeze and the others have come in later – with certain restrictions. In my youth there was a song called, and then the weekend came out. I want to rewrite it a little bit and say, and then Ted Hanisch came out. And he had the party book in order. He was the one who started talking about the private employment service perhaps playing out its role and had expired because it had been plucked out, because the Internet, among other things. had come on the track and had made it almost impossible to keep the ban on private employment services. Ted Hanisch also realized that it might be important to have a private rental company, that one should open up for it. Rightly, Ted Hanisch probably wanted as the good social democrat he is, also to create a stately company for this. What's interesting is that when Ted Hanisch started talking about this, then suddenly more people in the Labour Party and more people in this Chamber started talking about the same thing. Then it was all of a sudden interesting. But one is not willing to go far enough, according to my and the Progress Party's discretion. Sylvia Brustad attacked the right forces, as she calls it, or the right party, so that we were not interested in the employees' rights. But I dare to take that claim: it was perhaps the first times the Right Party and the Progress Party are proposing private employment services and renting out, that it was actually most needed. It is in a situation where many are unemployed and many are looking for work, that we should have more actors on the track to help them find work. That is when I think that we in the Progress Party take care of the workers and the employees. I'm afraid that also Right does. We wanted this to be introduced when we had the big solution, which we had got through years of government with the Labour Party. Gunnar Berge said that the number of unemployed in this country should not be higher than 60,000. Two-three years after he had said that, the number of unemployed people was 200,000 – under a worker party government. That was when it was necessary, and it was then maybe also important that we had the opportunity to run the hire and hire jobs. Maybe it's not the same need today. But I'm glad we're getting it agreed today, because no one knows tomorrow. We cannot – even if we are a rich and strong country and are able to beat the Swedish in the most part – guarantee that we will not be able to get unemployment back in a few years. That's why it's important that we get this done. I want to claim that the solution that lies here today is a good and correct step in the right direction. I don't think it's going far enough, but as an old teacher, I have the capacity to be patient. I also have to be patient in this matter, and I will expect and believe – it is difficult to predict, especially about the future – that it will not be long before those who currently impose some restrictions on the scheme will follow up and perhaps in a few years promote the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right in this matter. Then we're in the right direction and forward. But I am amazed that the government party, which had the opportunity to get through to the government's proposal, has let itself be lured. Or is there a political inconvenience between the government parties in this house and the government? It might be a little interesting to see if during this debate we get an answer as to whether it really is so that there is a problem between the government quarter and the government when it comes to this matter. I'm surprised that one does this. I'm overconfident that it wouldn't have done the Labour Party if they had the same possibility.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e233	Before Lodve Solholm goes down from the pulpit, will the President ask whether he will leave to Erna Solberg to present the proposals, or will he take credit himself?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e236	I could do that, of course, but Erna Solberg is going to get the honor.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e241	Then the President will come back to the proposals. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e246	It may not be so strange that the Progress Party feels a little bad here today, because they have been put completely on the sideline in this matter. But it's Arbeider's party incredibly happy. The difference between the Labour Party and the Advance Party in the rights of workers is very great, regardless of whether the representative Solholm is now trying to say that they are in order for employees to have their rights. The party opposes the establishment of a state agency for temporary employment. The Progress Party will have an a layer and a b layer on the labour market and add up to it. On the a-layer, the private temporary employment agencies and rental companies will take care of those who can pay for themselves. The State of Labour, in accordance with the model of the Progress Party, shall only deal with those groups which have difficulty entering the labour market. What is the kind of downgrading of job-seekers? Does the representative of Solholm think that employers, or companies, will contact the labour market seat if they lack labour? Nope. What will happen to those groups that are weakest in the labour market and do not have the means to pay for it? Is it to take care of employees, as the representative Solholm is so concerned about?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e253	The representative eye said about me that I felt bad today. The representative Eye has not listened to what I said. I feel well! It must be the working party that feels a little sloppy, or a little bad for fashion. This was expressed by the representative, Mr Brustad, during the change of line. She said that the same thing that you're fighting for and doing here in this hall is going to be one down. At least they've got something to do. We thought we've gotten a lot, we have. We have earlier proposals for private employment services, and we have proposals for hiring out labour, but the Labour Party has prevented our proposals from going through. For many, many years – for ten years – the Labour Party has stopped it. Then all of a sudden, on 17 December 1999 – 14 days before a new millennium – we experience that the Progress Party is getting several in this Chamber for proposals that we have fought for for 10 – 15 years. Then I can't feel cheated! I should maybe lift the flag! In any case, I shall verbally state that I am very pleased that the Storting today makes these decisions. That they don't go as far as we wanted them to be. We've been fighting for ten years to get something more, and we've done that. We're going to be able to fight for two or three more years, and then we're going to be able to get through to other people as we like. To this end, the government is going to work with temporary workers: I think the government has a lot of other tasks to do than hire out labour, for example. Take care of the sick and the old.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e262	In contrast to the representative Solholm from the Progress Party, I believe that some of the SV's policies are very modern, because the policy that the Progress Party stands for is, after all, a policy that has been tried a long time back in history. It was a time when there was no organized working life, there were no laws that protected workers, there was at all nothing that deprived those who had money and power, all authority. So it has been tried, so the working life as it appears in Norway today is a modern project. All economic reports around the world show that the countries that have organised societies, which have an orderly, good pay and employment conditions for workers, are the countries that are most effective and have the most economic growth. The OECD has presented a report that shows that Norwegian working life is not as strictly regulated as Solholm would like it to be, that it is flexible and good, but there are some rules here that apply, which make this work well. So my question is, why does Solholm think that going back to the old days will be good, and can he then describe who it is good for? Is it good for those who never get a permanent job and have to work at McDonald's forever for $25 an hour? And where does the frontier of the Advance Party go when they think that someone should be allowed to decide a lot more? And doesn't the Progress Party see that there is a need for slightly more balanced muscles on the different sides of the table, including in the labour market, so that this will not be the strongest right?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e269	That SV's policy should be so modern, I find it hard to see, I have to say. Most museum guards want to return to the walls and the 1980s when it comes to working conditions, not least in nearby countries. The point is that the Progress Party has never said that we should not have good pay and work conditions in Norwegian working life. But we do not want such a system as SV wants, with nationwide negotiations on pay and working conditions that do not concern individuals, on single businesses, and where one from above, from large country-wide umbrella organisations, trees down the head of businesses and workers' relationships that may not be adapted to the individual outside of the business world. We want it to be operationally organised. To say that the policy of the Progress Party has been tried out, it is – I cannot find words that I count on the President will accept as parliamentary, so I want to say it so that at least it is far from clear, as we see it. It is rather the opposite of the policy that SV advocates, as among other things. has made it a part of Norway that started talking about the employment service and hiring out of the labour force. We simply got a jobless job in Norway that made it necessary for someone to get hold of this to help people get back into work, get them into businesses, because social democracy and socialists had been messing with Norwegian working life for so long that it had led to great unemployment. We've tried that, and we've also seen the result of what SV stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e276	The President will appreciate, especially in the pre-Christmas period, that there is some respect for each other and for each other's views. The President will also state that he does not like the term "museum guards" for his part. Let's just say that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e279	Let me first say that I believe that the Progress Party and Lodve Solholm have a slightly bigger day in Stortinget than the Workers' Party has. As the committee leader also said, we're not very satisfied, so in that context, I think the Progress Party has reason to be very satisfied, although it's probably also true that the bulk of the population doesn't go as far as the Progress Party would have liked. But it is thanks to the fact that the Workers' Party has managed to move the representatives of the government parties in the Stortinget in the right direction in relation to what was the starting point of the proposals of the Council of State Davøy in the proposition. What my question to Solholm's representative is about is that they are the only ones who do not see anything fundamentally wrong in charging the jobseeker. What you have been and are afraid of from the Labour Party is that if you go along with that principle, you can get too much use from the jobseeker. No one is going to be able to make money to get any work, that's the overall goal. But it is also the side of the fact that it is the weakest jobseekers who provide the service with the largest job. And if we were to follow the principle of the Progress Party that it is not wrong to charge the jobseeker, it would be the weakest jobseekers who put the queue at the back, because it is the ones who give the employment services the most job and the "bry" to get work, and thus the ones who put the most costs on them. Does not the representative, Mr Solholm, see that such a system would be able to achieve an unfortunate two-way distribution in the case of job seekers in the market?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e286	This by allowing payment for the provision of services bottoms in that we don't see it as something fundamentally wrong about the representative Odd Eriksen, if he wants to get a job, would have the opportunity to get a job by paying someone to get him a job. I don't think it's going to happen that the private intermediaries want to pay for such services. What it's added up to is, of course, for example. that it is the employer who has to pay - ergo is one of the things about the system that Eriksen did not think was so good, that there is someone who wants to distribute the labour force. The question is only who has to pay. Is it the employer or will it be the employee? In most cases it will be the employer. I believe that there are not so many employees who will be able to pay something important for such communication, it will be the employer who pays the bill to a large extent. That's what's going to be the driving force for the distribution companies too, because that's where the big income is to be collected, not for the individual who had to have a wish for such dissemination.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e294	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e297	Society is developing quickly. This means that we, as politicians, must also adapt our policies to the development of society. The labour market has developed towards greater flexibility in recent years. A growing number of shifts of jobs, new leave arrangements lead to increased demands for temporary workers and temporary workers. The situation of production enterprises also indicates the need for increased flexibility when it comes to labour supply, a need that may vary over periods. These challenges mean that, as politicians today, we need to provide business with the framework it needs and has asked for, so that it can provide the necessary flexibility for business and, at the same time, take care of the rights of workers. I am very pleased with the solution we have been given in cooperation with the Labour Party. Today, the Government is being implemented for its priorities in the Odelstingsproposition, which is essentially a continuation of the Blaalid selection setting. This has given us a broad understanding of the need to liberalise the rules in the labour market, and that is positive. Today's ban on private employment services is lifted, and the regulations are imposed on residents. So one introduces a code that is mirrored in relation to today's. In order to ensure the seriousness of the employment services activities, a claim for a limited liability company or the corresponding capital base is made as a bank guarantee. Under the new law, private employment services become legal. This is partly due to: the emergence of new services and channels of contact between job seekers and employers. Businesses that need temporary agents from temporary employment agencies can rent in as far as permitted by the rules of temporary employment. This is significant. This is a continuation of the work of the social partners in the Blaalid selection. Furthermore, this is an important point in that it forms the basis for the principle of parallelity between the legislation for the lodged and temporarily added. For enterprises that do not have the purpose of renting, it is only possible that the rent is higher than 10 pst. of the workforce, which lasts for more than one year, shall be agreed upon with those who are trusted. This does not apply, however, if it is less than three people. Inline that does not exceed 10 pst. And one year, they shall be trodden down with the chosen. This will ensure flexibility for the employer while preventing a substantial part of the workforce from being part of the labour force. When it comes to the dispute resolution model for those who think they are illegally temporarily added, there are multiple issues for the Government's proposal on a private-law model. This means that it is the individual who has to take action. Of course, you can search for the support that is inconceivable, even at trade unions, but you will not have the right to apply to the trade unions. In the case of the right to exempt employee groups from dissemination, there should in principle be equal treatment for all groups in the labour market. However, if important societal considerations so warrant, the Government is empowered for periods to exempt certain groups. In addition, there are several ways to turn the Executive Board of the Directorate of Labour into a council. This is a natural consequence of the current function of the Directorate of Labour. The representation in the new Council will be expanded to include a greater proportion of organisations and may be in regular dialogue with the Directorate of Labour. The Labour Market Act is an important instrument in the implementation of labour market policy. A broader council composed of both neutral members and representatives of the social partners builds up under the important tripartite cooperation in labour market policy. There are also several numbers to create a state rental company that will take care of important labour policy objectives. The government will as soon as possible submit a new case containing suggestions to create and organise this company on relatively blank sheets. Among these, the relationship with the department and the department shall be assessed. All in all, I am very pleased that we have now got a broad majority to increase flexibility in the labour market, which will benefit both employees and employers.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e320	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e323	Let me first say to the representative Gedrem that on behalf of the Workers' Party, we are very pleased with the willingness for constructive cooperation shown by the representatives of the government parties in the Stortinget in dealing with this matter. Despite the fact that the majority initially had letter-by-letter letters with the Right Party and the Advance Party in relation to the proposition presented by the Government, they chose to enter into a dialogue with the Workers' Party and obtain a broad solution in many of the issues on which we disagreed. Then I have a question and a comment on the dispute resolution mechanisms that have been chosen, where in many ways we have the greatest disagreement between us and the government parties. This concerns the understanding of the role of trade unions in dispute resolution. For what separates the rental relationship from the ordinary addition to an enterprise, the tripartite relationship exists, where the lessee has an employer and a contracting entity, and where in many ways the relationship between the lessee and the lessee is the problem. There it has been seen by the Workers' Party as even more important than in a two-party relationship that the lessee or the employee has a trade union to rest the shoulder against. In any case, it is difficult for the employee to bring a case on his own, even though it is initially only through negotiations that you stand alone. My question to Gedrem is: why is there such a fear of giving trade unions an independent right to enter into negotiations and bring proceedings in this kind of dispute?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e332	I would like to return to the representative Eriksen that we from the government party also appreciate the compromise and compromise of the Labour Party in this matter. We feel that it has helped in a positive way to get a plurality and to realize the principles laid down by the Government in this initiative, and a broad cooperation has an impact on the world of work. When it comes to the union's place, we also respect the work carried out by trade unions in general. We realize that they are important players, and usually positive. The reason why we didn't want to give the trade unions the independent right to sue or charge for matters was that we meant that the right should be confined to the one to whom it is applicable, because if they find a basis for critical matters, there is nothing to prevent them from seeking advice, support and support from their trade union in the event of an action. What we are afraid of and would prevent, as is also in the proposal here, is that trade unions, on a self-contained basis, whether or not they could have this right of appeal, on the basis of substitutive motives, contradictions or other non-existence, could help to strengthen the conflict. We are therefore very pleased that, after the proposal, it is now the individual worker who has to go to court, and possibly join in such a process if the trade union finds it advisable, but not that the trade union on its own initiative should be able to go to court where other motives may also be involved. We'd find that unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e341	The representative Gedrem said that they had managed, through cooperation with the Workers' Party, to get a broad plurality of the government's principle in this odelsting proposition. It is possible that one can see it this way, and that the essential thing for the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, which are members of the Committee, is to get a plurality of principle. For they have at least not received any plurality for the Government's proposals. One could actually have gotten one if not so wide, so at least a plurality, and so narrow it wouldn't have been, because it would have been at least five parties, if one had accepted the offer made by the Right and the Advance Party, that we would have subsidized our support for the proposals of the Government – not only to the principle but also to the proposals. The question has to be: What was so wrong with the government proposal that the government party in the Stortinget would not have it implemented by a decision here in the Chamber today? To make it concrete, that means 15 pst. and two years was a direct unreasonable and foolish suggestion, so bad that the party of the government in this room could not accept that it was what was decreed, that they should go to the Workers' Party and get 10 pst. and one year?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e348	I would like to start by giving honor to both the Progress Party and the Right, which in a factual and positive way gave an offer of subsidising to end up with 100 pst. of what was in the configuration. We really appreciate that, and it's noticed. However, we believe that the decisions given in the negotiations are so debatable that the proposal that is now getting a majority today can be said to be what the Government is calling for. There's a couple of anomalies, where this with one year and 10 pst. is the essential. I do not think that is going to be so much to say in practice because the companies are gradually developing a culture and a tradition to get an agreement in those cases where larger rentals will become relevant. It is particularly in the yard industry, the oil industry and major industries that businesses cooperate in a positive way in order to avoid redundancies and layoffs. So I actually believe that even with the restriction we had to do, we have a setup today, so to speak, that all the consideration of the proposals made by the Government is preserved. I also want to add that in the hearing process that we've had, we haven't neglected to have contact with the trade unions that have shown commitment, and it won't be unreasonable to give certain concessions as expressions of understanding for a period of time. I would also like to remind you that we want to evaluate the law in two to three years' time to look at the positive and negative effects, in order to adjust what might have to be left to get the flexibility and at the same time the security of the workers we are all concerned with.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e357	It starts to become a political ritual for the government to complain that you don't get a majority for everything you suggest. It's not uncommon for a minority government, especially not for a small minority government. However, it is rare for representatives of the government parties to declare themselves very satisfied that they have not received a majority in favour of the Government's proposals, for which they could have been given a majority. Sometimes you wonder why you keep long posts in cases of this type and read the settings. They're good reading material as they are. What you could then use is to give political reasons why you choose to go to another side. The representative Gedrem did not do that in his post. Now he says that the changes you've made, it was important to get a broad majority for. But then I have to draw the attention of the representative to the fact that by going to the right-hand side he would have a much wider majority. A lot more of the people would thus end up with the Government's proposals directly and indirectly, so I don't know where the width is. And when he calls it de minimis, it can't be completely consistent with the rationale. Firstly, if it was debatable, why in all the world then do not the Government's proposals when you can get a majority for that word for another? Secondly, the representative Gedrem comes from the Rogaland oil company, and I have read very clear statements from offshore manufacturing companies that far from seeing this as de minimis. So I'd like to ask the representative Gedrem to explain two things. Why choose to deviate from the Government's proposals? The one with the hearing, which was now mentioned in the last line, is nothing new. I expect that the government has also heard someone. It is not new that the trade unions protest against any change in this area, so there is nothing big enough to have heard. But I am asking for a political reason why the government's proposals are being rejected when they can be given a majority, and then a reason why all production companies in Rogaland are wrong when they do not perceive the changes that have occurred, as debatable – rather on the contrary,'very serious' is the expression they have used in the letter to the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e368	In this situation, the government party was in a very favourable situation as we were told from the Right and the Advance Party that they would subsidly support the Government's proposal in full. At the same time, we were told that the Labour Party could intend to negotiate a solution that was close to what the Government had proposed. It's kind of a luxury situation, and I want to pay tribute to all of these three games. I think that the result here is that we can be content with it together. Labour rest is important, and on the basis of the hearings we had, and what we have also seen of political markings – at the latest yesterday, it was well, where it emerged that trade unions felt a real concern about this – we found it right to make certain small adjustments in order to bring about peace in the labour market – not least in view of the future cooperation between the social partners, it has its own value and makes a proper argument. We believe that the solution that is now leading is very good for taking care of the fun and a good cooperation relationship. When it comes to Rogaland, I have had contact with representatives of the employers in the county, and there is – as I say in a previous reply – a solid tradition of arranging agreements before the stoppage and seasonal swings. I have confidence both in trade unions, oil companies and others in Rogaland that it will continue to be culture, which will be very useful in practice to ensure full employment and an effective use of the workforce. I also got the understanding from these employers that there is a tradition that they can carry on on this basis. Then I refer to the evaluation one should have in two-three years, which will show if there are things that should be adjusted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e379	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e382	Right-wing policy is not so dangerous yet, I suppose the conclusion is that far in this debate. What you feared a few years ago, you are today willing to go on. When Odelstinget today decides to allow temporary workers to be hired in all kinds of occupations and to allow private employment services, it means that right-wing workers are getting an impact on matters that we have prioritised highly throughout the 1990s. As late as four years ago, the majority of the population, the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party, stood together to reject these proposals. As late as l996, the then Labour Party government tightened up the practice of hiring out labour. We are therefore pleased to note that a policy that was adopted by the Labour Party’s Chief Spokesman four years ago was characterised as ‘the right forces are being attacked by the common good here in the country’ – and others, among others. Gunnar Berge, then state councillor, thought that the working environment would be worse and weakened by these proposals – now good policies are also for the Workers' Party. As recently as two years ago, the Morten Lund LOs Stein shared Reegård's view that hiring out labour is treating people as machines. Obviously, there has been a win for reason in those years. And when reason prevails, it's enough because the need for more flexibility, both for employees and employers, has become more obvious. In today's narrow labour market, it has become apparent that temporary workers are needed to fill up leave and sick leave. There is a need for extra help to take stoppages. The understanding has grown that it is better for employees and administratively easier for employers if you can turn to enterprises or organisations specialising in precisely providing the right temporary worker for a job. For many short-term jobs, it is dependent on being able to find someone with qualifications, and regular calls and searches for agency workers become too heavy in many enterprises, including public agencies. How many hours of work are currently not used by highly qualified nursing staff, both in hospitals and older institutions or by pre-school teachers, to provide temporary workers who may be on short notice! The provision of general access to the provision of labour provides for specialisation in the labour market. Those who are good at organising, qualifying and providing the right labour force are involved, while those who need labour to do jobs in completely different areas concentrate on their task – not to provide these temporary workers. This is a significant contribution to improving the efficiency of the Norwegian economy, and has therefore always been part of the Right's job in terms of structural policy changes in the labour market. The right raised in l997 these proposals to change the legal regulation in the case of private employment services and rentals, from being a general ban on being generally allowed, i.e. a reversal of the principles of today's law. At the time, we felt that the then Minister of Labour and Administration, Mr Løwer, chose to go in and ask the questions in more detail, as opposed to former Labour Party Councils, who have only rejected the proposals in a blank way. The so-called Blaalid Committee, which was the result of this investigation, presented proposals for legislative changes that incorporated the main principles of the Right's wish. I would like to stress that I think it is positive that the Council of State has followed up the agreement of the Blaalid Committee in its proposal, although we on the Right wanted a somewhat more liberal regulatory framework and promote a number of proposals related to this. It's particularly true that we're against the six-month quarantine rule, because it has a negative impact on employees, not least in the districts. It is still the case in this country that there are not so many employers around the smaller communities, and for many it will be impossible to obtain the flexibility that the rapporteur has also argued for in the past, because it will be no more than one former employer asking for that workforce. We want a more liberal approach to renting between production companies. We do not now want to give the Government a general authority to exempt professionals. In our opinion, we should first have experience with a more liberal piece of legislation, and if problems arise, the government can come back to the Stortinget to obtain such a mandate, and then we have the opportunity to allow that authority to be accompanied by premises when it is to be used. It is important, not least because what has happened during the Committee's proceedings, is that the Workers' Party no longer makes clear comments as to whether or not to hire or to allow labour to be hired out even in the health sector. I hear the case rapporteur says that they believe it is now fully permissible, but I do not hear anything about guarantees from the Workers' Party that the government is not given the opportunity to use this authority against health professionals. I think it would have been okay if we could have had a confirmation during this debate that the Workers' Party believes that this power should not be used in the current situation to stop or limit the hiring of labour in the health sector. Then it would have been reasonable what Sylvia Brustad has gone out in the media and said that one is for rent and will not uphold the ban. If it is not guaranteed, the Workers' Party creates uncertainty as to whether the Government has obtained a majority in favour of the proposal they have launched, and as the Minister of State Davøy has said in the past could be used to limit rentals in the health sector. We made it clear at an early stage that the Government's proposals could be adopted with our subsidiary support. And the Progress Party has given the same signals. We find it a little strange to experience that the government parties obviously do not want their own policies to be implemented. On the other hand, they are making a compromise with the Labour Party on restraints, despite the fact that they were already guaranteed a majority for their own proposal. The consequences include: that while liberalising the legislation for temporary agencies, renting between normal production companies is tightened. The government’s legislative proposal is not far from the practice that has been granted through exemptions in recent years, a practice by the majority of the Stortinget – and former government council Gunnar Berge – has presented itself as a matter of fact. This is particularly true for offshore industries, because these are industries where these rules have been used to avoid dismissals and redundancies if you do not win a contract of employment. This is an industry that is currently undergoing major changes. And it's striking in this context that the bulk of the population chooses such a time to tighten this code. It also seems strange that government parties need to prevent the implementation of the new legal rules before the labour market legislature has established its own competing State rental company. Two years ago, there were spokesmen from the government parties who were fundamental opponents of the establishment of such a temporary agency. Among other things, Morten Lund of the Center Party said: ‘I cannot see that a State lessor, proposed by the Workers’ Party, will provide business with better services than those already existing. The public task should be to ensure compliance with the rental rules. ‘... In spite of this, government parties are now making a public AS the premise that liberalisation should be implemented at all. The objections to a public limited-liability company operating temporary-rental schemes, which are linked close to the labour market, have been large. Among other things, the Competition Authority has pointed out the clear problems that will result in the separation of the part of the work of the Employment Act that will facilitate all those who run the temporary employment agency from their own activities as a temporary employment agency that competes with the same. This applies, for example: the transfer of labour to temporary employment agencies and the possibility of such a public agency drawing on other resources in the labour market seat, financed by the State budget, for example. qualification measures for the unemployed, which are not shared by other temporary employment agencies. Many unforeseen incidents could occur when the same person in the labour market seat is in contact with employers as representative of the temporary employment agency and as representative of other services in the labour market seat. A model of partnership between the labour market and private agencies to solve the problem of such services would be much better than a state AS. Today, we are promoting proposals that this should be the way forward also for the positive and good measures for which the Labour Market Act has had attempts and partial payment services, linked to cooperation with other public bodies. Early in the phase, the Workers' Party announced an amendment to the Government's proposal which would in practice result in the unions obtaining a veto related to the hiring of labour. For example, it would. in the health sector, based on the fact that the nurses’ association has stated a fundamental refusal to hire temporary workers, despite the fact that, in the current situation in Norway, there is a strong need to allow just renting. However, during the committee process, all these proposals have disappeared. They would not have a majority, and it uses the Workers' Party as an argument, but I have to say that I have a creeping suspicion that the Workers' Party has also understood that their proposals could, in practice, be strained during the process of liberalisation; they have done their bidding against the LO and have chosen not to go further with them. Flexibility is good. We also learned that when we were in Sweden. The main impression we have left behind after that trip is that the legal rules we adopt today have proved to be perfectly effective – also a much more liberal piece of legislation as in Sweden. Fear of right-wing policy has long been exaggerated in Stortinget, and I am pleased that today a step has been taken into the more flexible labour market that Right has always wanted. I will be allowed to take up the suggestions that the Right and the Advance Party are behind in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e418	Erna Solberg has addressed the five proposals to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e423	First, let me refute a claim that I have also seen that Solberg has asserted against Today's Business, namely that the Workers' Party should only have promoted the view that, among other things, it should have been half-hearted. The lo has been behind it. It's directly wrong, and the representative of Solberg would have known if she had read what was our primary proposal. We have not achieved targets in all areas, but we have come a long way in some areas. We're happy about that, and we also give credit to the center parts here in the house for that. So I would like to say to the representative of Solberg about health professionals: we have always from the moment I was on behalf of our party submitted our comments, saying that when we now open up rents, it should apply to all industries, including the health sector. And I don't think the comment in the committee setting from the center parties, SV and the Workers' Party, is to misunderstand: «a general permit to hire labour should apply to all groups of workers. ‘... It's something other than what the government proposed, and I quote from the proposition, Ot. pp. No 70 for 1998-99, which reads as follows: ‘After considering the Ministry of Labour and Administration, there are specific considerations in the health and social sector which indicate that some professional/educational groups in this sector should be exempted from the option of hiring. ‘... In the committee's position, the majority say something different than this, because we say it should apply in all sectors. I've also argued why we think that's right. These include: It is important – and most importantly – that we treat as many patients as possible. I don't think the argument that renting is necessarily more expensive is in any context. That is why our message in this area should not be misunderstood. So it's true that we've given a power to the Government on a general basis to put the foot down. It is a general authorisation, but there must be compelling reasons for its use, important societal considerations, in which case it shall only apply to periods. The representative Solberg represents a party that is very competitive, and has been one of those who have been the driving force behind the ban on private employment services, among other things. on the basis of the argument that it is important to have competition between public and private actors. But when we come to the question of whether it is right to set up a state rental company, the Right and the Advance Party say that they: ‘there is no reason to start by setting up a public rental agency in order to compete with private operators as a consequence of the liberalisation of the rules of distribution and rental’. My question is: why is the Right only concerned with competition when it is in the favor of the private ones? Why should it not be a reasonable consequence of what is in place, that the public is also given a reasonable opportunity – as recommended by the NHO – to operate with the hire of temporary workers, and that they are also given the opportunity to compete on equal terms with the private sector?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e445	My reason for believing that it seems that the Workers' Party was only half-hearted in favour of its minority proposals is that it is very striking that they dropped these proposals, as the Workers' Party has actually done in the vote, and did not promote them and have them vote in favour of showing their views also through the Stortinges's proceedings. It surprised me very much that they didn't, because it's the usual thing to do. However, the Labour Party has now embarked on a line in which they will in a way not demonstrate their actual policy through the deliberation process. This also applies to the budgetary procedure, where they are fully behind the budget. I am pleased that Sylvia Brustad now clearly states that we believe that health professionals should not be exempted from the law. What I will be allowed to repeat – as a question to which a certain person has the opportunity to answer later – is either the representative Sylvia Brustad or other workers’ party representatives – is the following: Will it be this way from the compromise made by the Workers’ Party and the government parties, that if, before the evaluation comes to the Stortinget, the Council of State actually chooses to use the authority that she has for example. Stop hiring nurses or others during this period, given all we know about the health situation in Norway today, will it be to perceive as breaking an agreement between the Workers' Party and the Government and the understanding that has been included in this mandate? I think we can get a concrete answer to that, because then we know how the government can act in relation to using that authority in the future. When it comes to the issue of the share company, I would like to come back to it, but I see that I now have ten seconds left, so I am not going to be able to give an adequate answer. We have argued in principle in the setting. There is no competition in the market with regard to rentals. I think there are 171 registered rental companies, if I do not make mistakes, at different levels in Norway, so there is a lot of competition. It is not in order to gain competition that the public needs to enter, because competition exists and will exist completely independent of the public sector. But the principle view I get to come back to later in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e454	There are three relationships. First of all, I found it positive and quite correct that the representative praises the last two government councils in the department for taking up this important topic, and for making these proposals for the Storting so that we get these changes. I would like to support that reward again, not least to the Council of State Davøy, who has done this in concrete terms. The other debt concerns temporary agency, which I hope can get on the leg with the law not too far in the year 2000. We in the Christian People's Party have been a little uncertain about whether we should support this. Now, the Council of State has proposed that this be done, and in the committee we have concluded to ask the Council of State to come back with a proposal for a scheme such as this. Takes into account that in the country we have some jobseekers who are relatively less attractive in working life, so that one should at least feel that there is an enterprise that will be actively seeking to employ those who are likely to be somewhat less attractive in a private market, as efficiency and functionality are almost the criterion for evaluation. I don't think anyone can afford that. That's why we see the value of this. We also say that the Council of State has the freedom to come back with a model and an organisational form, and hopes for the establishment in Stortinget of the proposal that does not come too far in the New Year. So, finally, a question: does the representative Erna Solberg fear that the companies and the employment organisations cannot find suitable arrangements when it comes to labour renting between the enterprises? In my opinion, these companies and employees have a long way to go in common with schemes to prevent unemployability and ensure the best possible employment. In these companies and business sectors, there is now a tradition and culture for trade union and company management to deal with these issues. Is Erna Solberg in doubt that in the future they too will be able to find suitable arrangements for the unemployed?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e465	Let me start with the last one, because a few things have been said in the hall earlier that are not correct in terms of renting between production companies. It has been said that this applies to rentals that do not exceed 10 pst. Otherwise, an agreement can be made with the union, but it is under one given condition, as stated in the law, and that is, an agreement is to be made with trustees representing a majority of the working category to which the lease-in relates. The probability is then that if there are categories where there is a low organisational percentage, you won't be able to go over 10 pst. It's e.g. a difference in relation to the proposal which makes that for some companies where the organisational percentage is low this does not necessarily apply. This has removed the possibility for some enterprises, in both areas of rental, to use the other way through the trade union at all. We've thought that these are rules where the rights are perfectly clear. The employee’s rights are in the company that rents, and there is the difference between this type of rental and rental linked to temporary employment agencies, where you get a tripartite relationship where the employee’s rights are shared differently, and where you have other types of connection to employment. So to the question of a public agency. First of all, I believe that this agency is not just going to do temporary work. These are four payment service elements according to what is stated in the proposition. Part of these payment service elements is de facto to take over the human resources of some enterprises. I understand that the NHO and businesses will be happy that the labour market seat can take over the human resources for them and bring costs down. If you get something cheaper than what you can do yourself, you'll often think it's okay. We believe that what is outlined should be implemented through the agency, probably better implemented through a partnership model. Manpower has been invited to such a partnership model. We think that this can be done in relation to both private and public offices, and find better solutions to these schemes than to set up a temporary agency, which we think will remove the focus from the weakest, which is primarily the responsibility of the labour market parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e472	President! For a matter of detail.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e479	If this would be in favour of the debate, Mr Gedrem will be given the floor for a briefing on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e482	Thank you - just for clarifying a misunderstanding. The setting reads on page 19 as follows: ‘an agreement shall be concluded with trustees representing together a majority of the category of employees to which the lessee relates. ‘... This is not an organization message. Where there are no organisations, a group can add them to the company, so there's no obstacle to renting out that there's not a multiple that's organized.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e493	Erna Solberg – for the information and clarification of a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e496	I have not misunderstood what is in the law, but I believe Mr. Gerdrem has misunderstood what I said. I said that the possibility of going beyond 10 pst. does not exist for those enterprises where a majority within the employee category is not organised. That's how the law is actually formulated. The same type of rules also apply when hiring temporary agencies, depending on that. I think it was Gedrem who had an extra misunderstanding here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e505	The President then realizes that the misunderstanding has been resolved.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e509	I think we'll notice that it's the Right that smiles wide today, and that they've actually understood how little this compromise means. It is serious for us who disagree with it, but I understand that Right smiles. The right-hand side draws a comparison with Sweden when it comes to making what's happening now, and it's wrong if you don't know how much difference there is in Swedish and Norwegian working life – and now I'm not talking about Telia and Telenor. In Swedish working life, employee organisations have a very different strong position than they do in Norwegian working life. There they have clauses through their collective agreements which require them to conclude contracts when they are leased and leased. And they also have clauses that allow them to shut down both rental and rental companies if there is a conflict. That means that there are some even muscles in the system that are totally absent in Norway, because the problem in the Norwegian system is not that there should be renting and hiring between companies, or that some should be temporary workers. That's not a problem. But the problem is that you should not control this, either through the trade unions, or that the authorities should be able to control it, because in this area you do not intend to make any changes. This means that no matter how strict the legislation is in itself, no matter how important it is in Norway, because there will be no one sitting there who can find out if there is a temporary job, or if there is a way to avoid employing people, as it is in Sweden. So there I think the representative Erna Solberg must have misunderstood how Swedish working life works.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e518	I am aware that there are major differences between Swedish and Norwegian working life, not least in relation to the organisational percentage, which is much higher in Sweden than in Norway, which, of course, also causes some relationships to change. But then the law in Sweden is completely different from what we are in favour of here today, because it's completely liberal. It is one of the shortest I have seen in a legal text, and it has e.g. Very many of the pieces that we've been through in connection with the legislation here, which provides some extra guarantees – that's all. But what is the main point of Sweden's experience is that, for example: the six-month quarantine rule does not exist, which means that a person can be hired back to the enterprise in which he has been. It has been shown that there are no major problems related to it, with one exception perhaps: in the health sector, it has been found that the nurses have been able to use the system there to push up the pay level of the nurses. Some people might think it's negative, others might think it's okay to use the market mechanisms. For my part, I think it's okay. I think it is better to use market mechanisms in a supply and demand situation to raise the salary level of that type of profession than to think that it should be raised through major negotiations, special low-wage public pay pots or other things. I still believe that if you go to Sweden and see to what extent you have had to use threats in Swedish employment at all, there are no examples that any of the legislation that exists in Sweden, for example. in the case of penalties, have ever been taken up in order to stop the use of contracted personnel or rentals. As far as I'm concerned, one has too much fear in Norway of the consequences of liberalising in this area. But now we see what's happening and what experience we're getting. There will be an evaluation back to the Storting, and maybe you can be brave enough to take away the extra bars that are inserted, if it turns out that there has not been a need for them at all, in three years.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e527	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e530	The labour market will remain changing over time. The need for labour in different sectors varies. Enterprises would like to have access to the required labour force, while workers would have a two-fold desire: the need for predictability and security in everyday life and the desire for a more flexible working day in periods. The employee no longer requests only work, but also leisure and best-performing welfare schemes, holidays and leave. The public has responded to these wishes and needs by facilitating safety under disease, good maternity leave arrangements, birth and disease in children — and now, last but not least, post-training leave. All these welfare systems have once again reinforced the demand for short-term labour for labour. The Bill adopted today by the Stortinget meets both the need for flexible labour and the need for individual workers to be safe and orderly. Overtime and temporary employment together with the hiring out of labour have contributed to the necessary flexibility in working life to date. Renting of labour has initially been prohibited, but exemptions have been made under the regulations – under the Employment Act § 27. Of the areas that have been exempted from the ban, the office sector has been of the highest importance. But it goes without saying that a selection of exceptions becomes both bureaucratic and unbridled, and will never be accurate, fair or fair. If an enterprise is subject to excessive overtime effort, this will be a burden on workers. Most people feel loyalty to their employer and job and may be willing to take on more work than what serves the individual’s situation and health in the long term. Today's legislation, which prohibits private employment services, is not adapted to today's and future needs for more flexible labour. The Ministry therefore recommends that private placement of labour be permitted, and this is supported by the majority of the Committee – the Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Centre Party. Private employment services will be a positive complement to the labour market seat. At the same time, another majority – the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and SV – are committed to maintaining a nationwide public employment service. This will not least be important for the districts. The majority of the Committee supports the Ministry's proposal for a "return of reflection" of the legislation, from the general prohibition on hiring out labour to the possibility of hiring out labour. The majority believe that a general permit for hiring labour should apply to all groups of workers, but will at the same time empower the Government to exempt certain occupational groups from the general rule for periods, the essential social reasons of which so warrant. For the Centre Party, it is important that employees are guaranteed safe conditions of addition. This is the way the law is designed, while taking full account of the new needs of society. In this context, it may be of interest to look at today’s school system and children and the everyday lives of young people. Today, children and young people are far less likely to be aware of different aspects of working life through growth and schooling. Lack of work experience and skills lead to the uncertainty of many young people before their professional choices. Today's legislative proposals will increase the variation in experience and improve the basis for final career choices. At the same time, better hiring opportunities will facilitate access for enterprises to the necessary labour force. I also know that there have been cases where temporary workers have improved the working procedures – something that has benefited both the permanent employee and the enterprises as a whole. Fresh eyes and new forces can dissolve in blocked routines. New eyes can provide new routines that can in turn improve well-being and better perform jobs, while at the same time improving the qualifications of those who have been in employment and standing even stronger as jobseekers in the future. I think the bill we have received is very good. No one has been satisfied with all his wishes, but no one has any reason to be dissatisfied. The labour market is guaranteed flexible access to labour. The employee has fully guaranteed his or her rights, and anyone who wants a more flexible relationship with the working life with a little more leisure time during periods, and will try out several types of work, will have more opportunity to do so. At the same time, the law shuts down so that it can be speculated in only short - term employees.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e558	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e561	The representative No Gulf of Qualities shall have the right to participate in the casting of its former positions by the Centre Party in this case concerning the provision and rental of labour. New ideas and attitudes are allowed – even here at Stortinget. But it is such that the government parties here at Stortinget could get through for what was the government's starting point in the matter. With regard to what one has now had to accept, and would not have had to accept if one had chosen to cooperate with the Right Party and the Advance Party, one got the case on the purchase that one must have six months' quarantine if one is to be hired by a company in which one has previously been employed. There may be a problem, especially in those parts of the country where the Central Party has its heart, namely in pig-grown strips, where I know that the offer of jobs and the number of businesses is not such that there might be so much to choose from. It will, in my view, be a disgrace in the pig-grown struts of the country. It could be interesting to hear the representative No Quail Bay's view of just this. Does she not feel that it is a bit troubling to have been involved in a settlement that can actually affect the core areas of the Central Party in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e570	The representative, Andersen, asked why we would not be able to cooperate with the Progress Party and get full support for the Government's proposals. At the same time, he criticises that we are going in for the six-month quarantine. Then I have to say that the department proposed six months of quarantine, and I think that was quite right. As I said in my post, on the employer's side we have closed the door to speculation about just investing in short-term employment. However, working life is not only made up of idealists, either on the employer's side or on the employee's side, and with this six-month quarantine we have also closed down the possibility of speculation on the employee's side. If there is a worker who is very much in demand, he can just quit, get hired, and demand a much higher salary. It's a system we don't want. When it comes to taking the districts into account, I am very pleased that the Progress Party is also concerned with the districts. And that's exactly why we think it's so important to ensure strong government employment agencies in the future, and that we also get state rental companies. I think it might be the most important contribution in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e577	We remember, and today we've had it repeated, Ted Hanisch's launch of the public limited liability company that was going to enter the rental market. A large part of the justification at the time was the importance of being a full-time supplier and in this way of maintaining a wide range of skills in the labour market. The proposal was initially met with a shoulder bill. Today it is considerably more strenuous. It's important to be on the track from day one. It almost seems that if the state doesn't get a flying take-off, you have little chance in the market. Speakers of the majority have spoken about an extension of the A-etade. But Morten Lund said the very opposite of last year's debate. He said that this business had to be completely separate from the A-storey. He also said, as Erna Solberg mentioned in his post, that no better services for business were to be expected here. What has happened to the Center Party now, when you have the exact opposite position today? It would also be interesting to know whether the Central Party shares the Workers' Party's view of monopoly. If the state is not involved, then we have a private monopoly, says the largest representative of the majority. Is it really like looking at 170 private actors, as Signe Eye in last year's debate counted it to be, and that have been confirmed by Erna Solberg today, as a monopoly?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e588	First, I just have to make it clear that there is no contradiction between what Morten Lund has said earlier, and what I say and believe in this matter. I would also refer to what the majority say about this in the vote: there we ask the Ministry to come back with proposals for setting up such a company as a separate case, and we assume that the proposal must take account of the legal, administrative and competitive considerations. So we'll see what it's going to be. Otherwise I would like to say a few words about the process. All the replicants from all the parties that are in the majority have come up with criticisms and accusations because they have entered into a process. I'm really amazed at that. I think this case is a star example of how a political process should be. And that's exactly why we've got such a good case. I have to make a confession. I'm very happy to bake. And if I bake a yeast, I don't put the dough right into the frying oven, then the result won't be good. The ministry has given us a dough, we've processed it – we haven't just raised it. It's been a difficult process. We haven't made balls, we've made them around clay. They got nice, too, I think. In this process, we have received signals from both the employer and the employee, and we have spoken to political co-workers. And I think the majority have come up with such a good proposal that I think we have reason to be satisfied with the result. Well done!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e599	I don't know if you're going to laugh or cry after the last article that was held that this is something you've been hurting in the Christmas Strip, and that you hope the digestion will be good. I have, in fact, taken the Central Party seriously for some years, and also what they have said about the importance of this law being designed to ensure the safety of employees. I assume that it is not only the concern of individuals, but also a social interest that lies behind such a point of view, and I have come to understand that the Center Party shares that view. Then a very liberalized code has been created, but there are some brakes here, for example. renting is only to be limited to the Work Environment Act § 58 A. The question is: Is this legislation supposed to be followed? And if it's meant to be followed, who in the world is there to control this, when you don't give employee organisations any opportunity to go in or have a government control to do that? I want the representative from the Central Party, on behalf of the government parties and the majority, now to explain. How do you feel that this security, for which you make yourself a spokesman, should be ensured when you have a system in which no one can really take care of it, without the individual, the one little one who is being hired, who is also going to bring legal proceedings against his own employer in order to keep in place the interests of this society – which you claim to have – in place. It's impossible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e609	No, not impossible – nothing is politically impossible, it is political challenges. And I don't think we're going to judge everyone as a waitress in the first place. But we're going to keep an eye on what's going on, so it's not going to be abusing, and that's why we also say in a comment: ‘The majority ask the Government to follow developments closely and to assess the proper functioning of the control system. If necessary, the Government is asked to return to Stortinget with proposals for amendments. ‘... And it is also determined in the setting that fixed employment should remain the main principle of working life. I cannot see that there is such a great opportunity for abuse here. I've talked to a lot of employees who enjoy the opportunities they have to take different work, and who have actually through that process been very much in demand for labour and have learned a lot more than they would have done if they had gone into a solid A4-shaped work system right away. I think we will in the future get more and more people who want to have this flexibility, and we shall respect that. I believe we have received a very good proposal here as we both establish the employee’s rights – it is linked to Section 58 of the Working Environment Act – and we have that limitation of 10 pst. and one year on rental from the enterprise to the enterprise. I cannot see that there is such a great opportunity for speculation, and if that were the case anyway, we have asked the Government to follow the matter closely. Can it be done better?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e623	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e626	First, I would like to mention the suggestions from the SV that are included in the setting. This case could have been done much better – for Norwegian work life is actually flexible, that is. Together with that in the Netherlands and Spain, it is one of the most flexible in Europe. It's okay to change jobs, sail if it sounds like someone doesn't think it is, it's been allowed to work with temporary workers, and it's been allowed to rent and hire between companies. However, in some of these areas there have been some difficulties: some of them have come from very poor authority control, and some of them have come from some rather heavy ways of dealing with it – which there was reason to see. But to throw the baby out completely with the bath water, as one has done here, there has been no reason. In fact, good and safe pay and employment are one of Norway’s foremost competitive advantages. And they don't get off their feet. Political positions have been discussed a lot today. That's not enough. It's not a political attitude this comes from, it's the act that counts. That is what we are doing, and what it will be possible to do both for the individual employee/employee and for the future trade union movement, which will show how this will work. And what we get the majority for today is not in line with what a lot of workers think; we've got a lot of letters about that. So here, LO has played a very strange role, and the Workers' Party is now fully responsible for strong liberalisation and kneel-dropping in relation to the things that would have been important if you wanted to go along with it, that is, to give the trade union movement the opportunity to keep the interests of the workers alive. When we were in Sweden, the Swedish trade union movement, which has been living with a fully liberalised code since 1993, said that government control was the least important thing. The reason why this had not been completely overcome in Sweden was that the trade union movement had caused muscles to care for their collective interests and those of the workers, but also the interests of the individual. And I have a feeling that with regard to the collective interests, that is, the Community interests represented by the trade union movement, the awareness of this starts to become relatively small in the Workers' Party as well. I see that there is a great deal of interest in some employees to be able to adapt as much as possible. And that could be an advantage, I see -- there's nothing wrong with it. But it is therefore a perfectly legitimate interest on the part of workers to have a collective organisation and a collective attitude and action on such matters that it does not become the strongest right on the part of workers. With the liberalisation that is now being seen, I think the future labour market could be marked by a well-trained elite – as Thorbjørn Jagland has written in several articles – who have a lot of knowledge and competence, and who can surf around and foam the flute, while a given service proletariat, where many are locked in a female payroll trap. What some claim are significant changes in the agreement are errors. A constraint of 10 pst. and one year on renting between enterprises is the only result, and it will not be relevant in practice. So to say that all the rentals will now be able to take place without the trustees being able to demand an agreement, and no one will check that the law is enforced. It will lead to more undeclared work, fewer permanent jobs, and less respect for the rules of the labour market. The fact that the compromise was put in place after a strong pressure from the LO management is of great amazement. However, the compromise lacks complete balance – even muscles of the parties. So now, for example, every week. prevent offences by bringing legal proceedings against the client of his employer. It is complete David against Goliath – total imbalance. A strict law will not mean anything when authorities and trade unions are not to exercise control. It'll be like removing the U.S. police, banning radar control and believing that people are going to drive neatly and that the accidents won't increase. It's going to be completely open, so it's going to be the rentals and the temporary workers that will lose. And they don't just want to lose in pay and employment – I wonder if the temporary worker will get a mortgage when he needs it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e643	Karin Andersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e648	The working party and SV are initially not far apart from each other in many of the questions that are now being addressed. What might be the greatest difference between us is exactly what Andersen originally pointed out, that is, that is what we're actually doing, that counts. For the Workers' Party, it has been very simple. We've been stuck on our primary positions and downcast. We could have been together with SV in about all the comments and suggestions in the vote, but it has not been corroborated by the fact that the decisions taken today would have deviated significantly from what the Labour Party and the government parties in the Stortinget have been able to reach through a compromise. That's what actually counts for the individual employee. I think that the representative, Andersen, minimizes the ability of employees to influence rent, because she says something such as that all the rentals will now be able to do without an agreement if you stay within 10 pst. and a duration not exceeding one year. That's actually not what's going to happen, because through the law you have the legal obligation to discuss. All those who have been elected to the Norwegian labour market know that the obligation to discuss is a strong formulation of the contract and the law, as it obliges the parties to arrive at protocols where they either say that they agree or that they disagree. In any case, there is evidence of the need to discuss through the possibility of unemployment, and it is in fact a strength in itself.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e657	Yeah, it's the results that count, it's got Odd Eriksen right in it. Then there is reason to replicate to the Workers' Party: Why have they not used muscles in this matter? It hands the Workers' Party uses muscles both inside and outside this hall, and shows them quite clearly. In this case I have felt that they had a leap, but when they met a little resistance, they were suddenly completely gone. As Eriksen's representative correctly says, there was nothing left of the principle, the strong views of SV and the Workers' Party. In this case, I have almost been free to write comments and suggestions; they are the others who have written, so I have remained alone. SV has therefore wondered what really happened between them. LO and the Workers' Party in this case. Why did the Workers' Party choose to bend and not use muscles and try to push the Government a little bit in this matter? And when the government would still get the majority for almost the same thing, without the Workers' Party being left responsible for this, it's totally incomprehensible that it's happening. The Labour Party has been restricted here, but this is the case in the vast majority of jobs where there is a lot of renting – there is a lot of this in the construction industry – that this can be organised without the need for agreements. I have been trusted, and I have been an employer. I have been an employer in a very large company, which had a number of discussions. There was no doubt about who it was that decided. If there was a crisis and there was a disagreement, there was no doubt about who decided. It was the employer who decided when it was mandatory to discuss. Obviously, the trade union movement through this can build a great deal of knowledge that there are many things happening here that are not in line with the intention of the law. Well, this has also been the case in the last few years without it leading to political action by the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e666	I sat and listened to representatives Karin Andersen's comments, and I had no intention of taking any lines if she made anything positive. But Karin Andersen's speeches were marked by massive scepticism in the liberalisation of the law that we are dealing with today. In this case, SV has marked itself as a proper guardian of the sovereign State monopolies. Fortunately, they are alone in their somewhat special vision. Is it not the case that SV sees it as important that as many actors as possible contribute to helping people in work? SV will not have a private employment service, nor will they have any liberalisation in terms of employment rent, as far as I understand. All must be a state attack, with as many public monopolies as possible and with the greatest possible red tape. With its attitude in this matter, SV has once again lived up to its reputation as guardians of times gone by – another expression did not please the President, so I will not repeat it. When we were at LO in Sweden during the preparatory work on this matter, we were told that, as far as I can remember, the Swedish LO did not have much positive say about the placement and rental of labour. I asked the Swedish LO if they could say a single positive thing about private rental and communication, and the Swedish LO said no, not a single positive thing. My question could then be: does not the representative Andersen see a single advantage with private employment services and private rental of labour?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e675	Renting of labour has been in Norway for many years. What SV has been concerned about is having a regulatory framework around what creates what we are concerned about, namely safe pay and working conditions. We think that's important. I didn't get to say much about it, but this concerns me, for example. on the possibility of building up skills within an enterprise, it is about the possibility of securing pay so that a loan can be taken up, which means that, for example: are able to obtain a home, that one dares to set up a family, and these are rights acquired through permanent employment: social security, pensions and many such things that are important for the life of the individual. In addition, this is important social building, because it is what SV, unlike the Progress Party, is concerned about, namely a society with small differences. And we know that in a society of small differences there must be driving rules, and some must be able to handle them. It's no use for each one to do it separately. So for private employment services. No, SV does not see the need to open up private employment services. The majority of the employment services today are private in the sense that they are carried out through newspapers and acquaintances, and the Internet will eventually become an important player in this. It's really a little hard to see who's going to run this private employment service that you're now sketching. I believe that most of the employment services will take place through rental agencies, that in a way rental activities will function to a certain extent as employment services. But what we've been busy about is keeping the labour market seat as a unit to serve both the big and the small employers, the strong and the weak workers. It's been important. The only thing I can imagine is that there may be some small niches for some people who have great skills in working life, and we think it would have been important that they were also inside the system, as is the public labour law.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e682	I agree that important principles such as respect, respect, security and cooperation should characterize the working life, and I believe that this is the same attitude that Andersen's representative is making in his contribution. And I really believe that these stalls will dominate Norwegian working life, where permanent addition is and will be the normal and safe working conditions for them to add, that we will work together to ensure that this will also be the situation in future Norway. But I'll probably be left out a little bit when I hear the problem focus that you get through the last post, that it doesn't work with rungs because the UP is gone, the control mechanisms don't work, so it's impossible to control, osb. I feel that this is a description of a demise that is not real, and I feel that it is too negative and too problematic. I don't see the goal of black measuring the situation instead of trying to point out concrete things that had to be missing. One can go against the whole system, but the way that a depreciating scheme value, respect for the scheme, makes a little negative impression on me. I'd like to ask Andersen, is there any weakening of the trade unions' image to intervene and be a power factor here? One can set up debts on debts with the individual employee in the event of a work right being violated, and follow up employees exactly the same as one can today. There is no weakening in the employee's legal situation with what we are doing now. I feel that this is the point of view that should be reflected in all the objections from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e691	What makes the Christian People's Party and SV here have a slightly different starting point is enough that we come from two totally different traditions. SV is based on the traditions of the labour movement, which I will actually claim have been the forces that have civilized this society, which have made it good pay and employment. I'm not claiming that everyone has bad morals and is looking to hurt, but historical experience shows that everyone's seas are closest, and that organizing and caring for their interests has been necessary. And I think that will prove to be equally necessary in the future. Then the representative Gedrem says that it would have been better to point out concrete things that are missing. Yes, we have proposed it. I've pointed out the most important thing. The most important thing for me to profile now has not been tightening up the law, but that you should give the trade union movement maritime legal rights, and that the authorities should check the law that they have and say is important. That's where I don't understand that, for example. The Christian People's Party is not in it, because if we have laws that are not controlled, it is very difficult to believe that they are being kept. That, I think, weakens the respect for law in general, and I think that is very serious. And there has been quite a degree of liberalisation in the changes that have taken place now, reflected principles and made great openings. When, at the same time, the trade union movement does not have maritime rights, not just to preserve the individual, but to safeguard the major social interests that lie in the fact that there must be about equal muscles in the social partners, then it will be wrong. It is the historical knowledge and tradition SV lives in, but in which I believe the Christian People's Party does not live. It is possible that the Christian People's Party seems negative and sad, but in my understanding of history it is actually what has made this society good to live in.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e698	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e702	In contrast to the previous main speakers, the Left believes that there is an important and joyful reform that will be adopted here today. As can be seen from both the proposition and the setting, today's legislation is not in line with the changes taking place in society. We are now given a law that provides the necessary flexibility for the labour market and that is adapted to a new age's needs. Changes will make working life easier and better, and my claim is that it will also contribute to increased employment. For many years, the Left has had a strong commitment to this matter, and we are very pleased that the Government's proposals are being adopted mainly. The representative, Erna Solberg, said to Today’s Business on 19 November this year that ‘there has been a revolution in the thinking of Ap in recent years’. It might seem right. There has also been a significant development during the treatment here in Stortinget. It shall be admitted that the Left was initially sceptical about negotiations with the Workers' Party on this matter, but is pleased about the working party's practical cooperation position and the willingness to find solutions in this matter. The lot would initially have completely different solutions than the government at many important points. On the way, almost all of these positions are abandoned, and we are today with a majority position to which the Left can join. The case shows the significance of the government change we got two years ago. The proposal made in Ot.prp. No 70 for 1998-99, would probably have been quite different with a labor party government. In addition, the negotiating room of the centre parties in Stortinget has enabled a broad consensus to be reached on all the main points of the adjustment. Only the position of the SV seems sad in view of the reality and the interests of Norwegian workers into a new millennium. Of course, the Left would have supported the Government's proposals at all points, but the changes made in the majority voting are small. Yes, they're so small that it doesn't have to be a big problem to join them. It has a self-esteem, and we are pleased that the Labour Party is now involved in the important reform that is being adopted here. The most difficult point in the majority position relates to the limit of contractual requirements for the hire of labour between production enterprises. We believe that the result is to live with; the provision has little or no meaning for the smallest enterprises. The law is to be evaluated after two years, and business is encouraged to show concrete examples of the importance of this small tightening, as a possible basis for changes at a later date. An important result of today’s treatment will be a new step towards a simpler Norway. There will be significantly less paperwork and bureaucracy in such cases, which is an essential part of the purpose. The Government's proposals are mainly based on the setting up of the Blaalid Committee, and are well balanced between business and workers' needs for flexibility and efficiency on the one hand, and the need for safety and orderly working conditions on the other. All essential considerations have been taken into account in the majority voting that exists and to which the Left will join.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e719	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e722	In a previous line shift, we were given an eye-catching characteristic of the Government's work. If that characteristic came from any party other than a government party, I wouldn't have noticed it. But when the representative No Quail Bay says that what the government is presenting in the Storting is an unfinished dough that the Storting and the government party must insist on in order for it to become edible at all after it has been in the frying room, which is probably the Storing, then I must say that I am reacting a little, because such a characteristic of the Government's work is strange. To the right of another government party, I would like to share the Central Party's characteristics of the government's work as if what it is presenting in the Stortinget is an unfinished matter that the government is almost asking the government to do better and complete. I'm almost going to have to ask you that. I would also like to ask another question to the representative of Kongshaug: If the Left had sat on the municipal committee, would he then have worked for the agreement with the Labour Party to come about, or would he – as he wished at all, as he said in his speech, that he had anticipated that it was the government proposal that went through – try to turn the government party so that they received subsidiary support from the Right and the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e731	Even though it's getting closer to Christmastime, I'm afraid we're moving into an area where I don't have the skills to deal with doughnuts and baking. But as I perceived it when I heard the representative, Kvalbukt from the Central Party, I don't think she meant it as it might seem to be perceived by the representative, Solholm. What she was paying attention to was that there are processes happening in many things, and one is going to take into account the recordings that are coming. But in general, I would like to say that what the Government is proposing – and perhaps this government in particular – is good proposals, and we who are sitting in the Grand Duchy will, of course, work to ensure that those proposals are passed and get a majority in the Grand Duchy. It concerns this matter, and it concerns other matters. But then it's once that it's a minority government, and one must then seek cooperation in order to have a majority. We've done that to both the right-hand side and the left-hand side of the policy, as we know. This time we got into a cooperation with the Workers' Party, a cooperation that I am very happy to achieve, and as I said in my post, I think it's part of creating peace and security, and is part of ensuring the proper implementation of such an important reform as the one we're adopting here. The small changes that lie inside, as I said in my post, are a good thing to live with for all the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e744	When I heard the response from the representative of Kongshaug to Lodve Solholm, I began to wonder if he has followed in what has been the actual process. The Government parties did not need to cooperate with the Workers' Party in order to get the Government's proposals through, they already had the guarantee from the Right and the Advance Party that that proposal would be adopted through subsidiary voting. It has been submitted by the Workers' Party. It was decided not to implement the Government's proposals and to go to the Workers' Party and agree on changes to the Government's proposals. So there wasn't any need to get a majority for that. And that's what's special about this case. Usually enough, this minority government has to make far greater compromises in order to get a majority than when we actually very quickly stretched out our hands to the government parties and said clearly that as the political situation was in this case, we would subsidiaryly vote for all the government had proposed. That's why it probably takes a better explanation from Kongshaug's representative about why it wasn't so important to get a majority of the government's arrangements, because what you've done is you've chosen to get away from it. There is also a need for an explanation from the Left on what is their principal attitude to public engagement. The Workers' Party has now had another impact, namely that this law should not come into force until a temporary agency is up and running in the labour market. It is to draw what the Government had proposed, much longer, and it is also to delay – probably – the process. Traditionally, the Left has taken a more restrictive view of public engagement in these areas and has stressed, among other things, the importance of public involvement in these areas. the setting up of the Competition Surveillance Authority with regard to the need for a level playing field. In this case, the Competition Authority has clearly stated that it will be very difficult to get clear conditions of competition. Why should the Left then go in to set up a public agency and give authority to that establishment before we see the rules on how it will work?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e753	It seems to be a recurring question why the government parties here cooperated with the Workers' Party on a majority and did not go in to get subsidiary support from the right. More articles here in the hall have been about that particular problem. In my speech I also said that the changes along the way are so small, and we think it is important to have with the Labour Party in a majority on this matter, in the light of the calm and the security that I believe is also important in order to carry out the reform in a good way. This is an important argument for the Left and for the government parties. As for the cleanliness of the public agency, etc., I think that piece will be taken care of when it is implemented by the Government, and I have no reason not to be able to go into it and the powers that are here in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e760	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e763	As previously stated, the Labour Party agrees, in principle, that existing legislation in the areas of employment services and unemployment is to be reflected. However, it is necessary for the Workers' Party to stress that the PES remains a central instrument of an active labour market policy. It is important that the employment service cooperates with the rest of the labour market policy, partly in order for labour market measures to be seen in the context of the ordinary labour market so that dissemination to ordinary jobs is the aim of all action work, and partly because the Employment Service continues to function as a control function against day-to-day pay. It is therefore only the PES that can have an integrated responsibility for labour market policy. As a result, the possibilities now open to private access to employment become only a supplement, but nevertheless an important complement to the PES. A key element of the amended law is that neither the public nor the private employment services can charge the jobseeker. However, the Ministry may, in exceptional cases, derogate from the general rule. For the Workers' Party, it is also the case that if the current legislation were to be passed on, it would in any case be necessary to clean up the unclear practice of the legislation. Firstly, there is a need for more consistent enforcement of legislation than is the case today. Secondly, we had to have sufficient control to prevent private operators from engaging in intermediary activities in breach of the applicable legislation or on the side of the existing legislation. However, the Labour Party acknowledges that the private actors meet a market demand that the PES is not adequately able to meet, not because the labour market seat is too poor for work, but because the changes in the labour market have led to a greater degree of market sharing, both in the case of job seekers and employers. Increasing the level of specialisation of labour and the needs of industry for top skills create a need for brokering services tailored to a narrower labour market. Therefore, tightening the current practice of the legislation would lead to adverse consequences both for job seekers and for employers. This would have been going in the wrong direction. Labour renting is also initially prohibited by current legislation. The fact that the Workers' Party is now in favour of lifting the prohibition on the rental of labour is partly related to the extensive derogations from the prohibition imposed by the Regulations, but also to the general changes which have taken place in the labour market. Increased competition both in the competitive and sheltered sectors and enhanced cyclical fluctuations have an impact on these developments. In addition, adopted new welfare schemes and extensions of employee leave rights, such as: the reform of continuing training, which contributes to temporary absences. This will increase the needs of enterprises for short-term labour in all sectors. It is therefore important to have a well-functioning market for short-term labour, which at the same time respects the rights of these workers in terms of pay and working conditions. It is a goal for the Workers' Party to achieve a regulatory framework that is robust enough to withstand the changes taking place in the labour market. Like the Blaalid Committee's amendment, the government has proposed a two-part working rent code. This is agreed by the Labour Party. The most important thing, however, is that an overall committee agrees that permanent employment remains the main principle of Norwegian working life. With the exception of SV, the Committee is reasonably in agreement that changes in the labour market require a comprehensive review of current legislation. For the Workers' Party, it is important to state clearly that flexibility in labour needs is not only needed by the employer or by the enterprise. Flexibility in relation to the labour market is equally important for many workers. Many, especially young people, need greater flexibility in working conditions. More and more are in a situation of life that allows them to work for periods, possibly at home for periods, or simply travel and experience the world around us for periods. In other words, we have to take into account that not everyone wants to base their relationship with the world of work in an A4 format. The government has presented a document, Ot. pp. No 70 for 1998-99, which has largely met the needs of employers and temporary agencies. But here's one exception. The Council of State has considered it appropriate, in a fine manner, to warn that it intends to exempt its former colleagues in the health and care sector from being subject to the liberalisation which it would otherwise propose to apply to other sectors of the labour market. On page 43 of the Proposition, the Council of State writes: ‘The Ministry of Labour and Administration therefore proposes that occupational groups in the health and social sector be included in the budget. § 55 K nr. 5 and § 55 L nr. 3 by regulation is exempted from access to rental. ‘... This is to go much further than what the Blaalid Committee discussed as an opportunity based on the trends that you will see in the world of work with the changes that are now being made. It is alarming that the Council of State will, in such an undisguised way, treat its former colleagues separately in relation to the consequences of a statutory audit she herself recommends. Despite what the Council of State has said through the proposal, the Labour Party has chosen to empower the Government, on a general basis, to exempt ‘certain groups of workers or in certain areas’ from the general rule during periods for which important social reasons warrant it. However, it is the clear premise of the Workers' Party, as stated in the Blaalid Committee's setting, that the expression 'important societal reasons' indicates that the threshold for intervention should be high. The term 'certain groups of workers or in certain areas' means that the Ministry may also, in the circumstances, intervene in a specific employment situation in a particular establishment. However, the Labour Party assumes that, in the type of case referred to here, the Ministry will have to deal with the issue in a similar way as in the preparation of regulations under the Administrative Act. This implies that the question should not only be sent to those directly affected by the decision, but also sent at the hearing to other potential stakeholders under the rules of Section 37 of the Administrative Act. One of the main arguments for the legislative changes adopted today has been the possibility of mobilising the labour force and making it more accessible to the labour market. The health sector is a sector in which currently there is too little skilled labour available in the labour market. It is therefore important for the law to be fully effective at the time of its entry into force, so that we can assess at a later stage, based on experience, whether the increased flexibility has the power to mobilise skilled labour for the market. It is therefore the Workers' Party's premise with the legislative amendments that the law applies to all sectors, including the health and social sector. The employment agency's temporary employment bank in Bodø has very positive experience with their temporary employment service activities. First of all, the temporary employment centre has provided temporary workers to the kindergartens and the school leisure system. In addition, the temporary employment agency has taken over the work from the municipality of Bodø to provide teachers in the schools. From the new year onwards, the temporary employment agency also takes over the work of providing temporary workers to the municipal health service. Experience so far shows that this is an excellent way for people to get into permanent work. But then there's also someone who actually prefers to work as a temporary worker. They do not want a permanent job anywhere, but like to work shorter parts of the year. The Committee's recommendation is a compromise between the primary positions of the Workers' Party and those of the Government. The Labour Party is disappointed that the Council of State has not been willing to strengthen the rights of trade unions in disputes. The Labour Party believes that the rules on who can demand negotiations and bring an action against the lessee should have been extended. In addition to the lessee, the union of the lessee should have the independent right to demand negotiations with the employer and to bring an action against the employer. It is therefore my opinion that rather than seeking to pursue the specific interests of one profession, the Council of State should have concentrated on the general interests of workers by strengthening the position of trade unions in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e810	Position of the Municipal Committee on Ot.prp. No 70 shows that broad agreement has been reached on the proposals put forward by the Government in the case. I am very pleased with this. It is important for the Government to replace existing legislation in the relevant areas. Today's legislation is not adapted to today's or tomorrow's labour market. By replacing this with new and more robust rules of play, a better one will take account of the needs of both employers and employees. When a person implements such important reforms in the labour market, it is in my opinion a great strength that both the social partners and the parties on the Stortinget stand behind the decisions that the Stortinget is now going to take. The Blaalid Committee’s proposal relating to new legislation on employment and unemployment was unanimous on all important issues in the sample. These proposals formed the basis for the Government's proposals in the Odelstationsproposition. I am pleased that these are essentially adopted by a large political majority here today. There is also a broad consensus that we should continue to have a large, powerful and nationwide public employment service in Norway. The law of the labour market shall continue to be a pillar of public labour market policy. The amendments to Section 26 of the Employment Act mean that private employment agencies can also provide workers with job vacancies. I feel confident that the liquidation of the intermediary monopoly will take place without negative effects. On the contrary, I believe that competition will intensify public communication efforts and be a source of innovation and efficiency. At the same time, a clear signal is sent to private actors that their contribution in this area is desirable. I expect that it will make a positive contribution to improving the functioning of the labour market. There will still be a requirement for job seekers not to pay for the intermediary service, except in specific cases where the option is that such intermediary services will not be offered. This change adapts the legislation to the emergence of new services and new channels of contact between jobseekers and employers we have seen in recent years — including the introduction of the Internet. The Blaalid Committee's investigation showed that current legislation on working time, which dates back to the 1970s and early 1980s, contains a number of weaknesses and, in part, bears the mark of being designed for a work and business that is significantly different from today's. The legislation has arbitrary limitations as to the type and type of labour that can be rented out, while the legislation has administratively resource-intensive derogation schemes. The new legislation on working time will increase flexibility, inter alia: in the case of temporary absences, in relation to providing temporary workers. One will also avoid a system of multiple decision-makers and subjective needs assessments to a much greater extent than today. It has been very important for the Government to establish a regulatory framework that supports the objective of a permanent employment relationship between the employee and the employer for the normal form of employment. The government’s legislative proposal opens up to exempt certain groups of workers from the general access to hiring of labour. This shall now be approved by the majority of the Committee. We will now go carefully through the need for exemptions from the general access to rental within the different employee groups and, if we consider it necessary, prepare proposals for regulations and the criteria on which they are to be based. The regulations will be sent at the usual hearing. I propose that any exemptions could enter into force at the same time as the new legislation on working time, if deemed necessary at that time. I am pleased that the Municipal Committee supports the Ministry's proposal to convert the Directorate of Labour board into a council. This is in practice an adaptation of the law to the current function of the Directorate of Labour and is also in line with the principles recommended by the Minister of Administration for Directorates. At the same time, it involves formalising the ongoing dialogue between the social partners in the labour market. I want to extend participation in the new council to the largest of the organisations in the world of work, both on the employee and on the employer's side. In this way, I want to ensure that more actors are given the opportunity to provide advice on the activities of the agency, at a time when the agency faces significant challenges and changes. As the current Board's term of office expires at the turn of the year, I intend to establish the new Board as soon as possible. I am also pleased that there is a broad consensus in the Committee to open up the labour market seat to provide some services in return for payment. I would like to assume that the services should be available to anyone who wants to buy them – businesses, municipalities, temporary employment agencies, etc. The Ministry will continue to work on practical aspects relating to the implementation of payment services, including clarifying the services to be offered against payment, and laying down pricing principles in line with relevant legislation in this area. The services for which the labour market seat may charge will be specified in the regulation after it has been consulted. However, I assume that free services will continue to be the main field of work of the department in the future. We proposed in Ot.prp. No 70 the creation of a new state rental company. The majority of the Committee agreed to this vote. I see the company as an instrument for increasing the employment opportunities of vulnerable groups and helping to provide employers with labour. The Ministry will come back to this matter in its own write-down proposal. In this context, I would like to stress that the rental company is given an organisation which respects the commercial, legal, administrative and competitive considerations that must be linked to the etab teaching of such a company. In the proposition that comes, we will give a detailed account of the company's tasks and the relationship with the labour market seat and the ministry. The Ministry will need to devote some time to the preparation, consultation and processing of regulations for the legislative changes relating to employment services, labour rentals and payment services. I have noticed that the committee wants the state company to be operational when the legislative changes come into force. I will therefore give high priority to the preparation of the forthcoming landfill proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e833	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e837	Let me first repeat that I am pleased with the agreement we have made with the centre parties, which involves some changes to the original government proposal. I would just like to comment first on what the Council of State finally had to say, namely the new state rental company that we agree on is to be set up. The government comes back with a separate case about it. But I have heard representatives of the government parties say here too today that the government can now start with a relatively blank sheet. I consider it appropriate to stress what we have said in a joint note — and this is not random — namely the following: ‘develop the service provision provided by the labour market parliament today’. It means that there are not quite blank sheets when the government is about to go to that job, and then come back with a proposal for the Stortinget. But let me ask another question. This is what I see as a little suspicious of the employees and believe that workers should abuse their powers/rights. When I say that, it's because I'm a little surprised that the government and government parties have not been willing, for example. to extend it with the jurisdiction of the courts also to trade union matters. I think it could have been a reasonable claim. I am somewhat surprised that the government does not think so, and I should have liked to have heard a little more reason when it comes to it. I am also amazed that the Government did not propose that an agreement could be reached on a case-by-case basis when we are talking about renting between ordinary companies, but instead left the very liberal line for which the NHO joined the Blaalid Committee, namely 15 pst. and two years, which were contrary to the position of all employee representatives in the Blaalid Committee. So my question is, doesn't the Council of State think that employees too will want their businesses well and have no desire to abuse their rights or any powers?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e844	As far as the temporary agency is concerned, it is very important that we set up a temporary agency where we do not find ourselves in a situation where we have problems with stability, competition problems, cross-subsidies – which we have been concerned about by the department, as the committee is well aware – and this is particularly true of the relationship with the labour market parliament. This has to be done in a neat way. Our labour market seat shall provide services, shall sell services, shall conclude cooperation agreements with a temporary agency. The relationship between the State agency and the labour market seat is also important. The agency shall be a new tool in public labour market policy. I want to remind you that the top responsible coordinator is and will be the Council of State, no matter how this agency is organised. But of course, we're going to come back to all of these questions in the proposition that the government is going to make. So to the employees and this with abuse of rights: I don't think employee organisations abuse their rights. It's definitely not my experience. On the contrary, employee organisations are a supplement and a very necessary tool, if we can say so, in order to have a good climate in the workplace. But I would like to point out that the most important thing, perhaps, in the control system or in the system we have set up is to ensure the parallelity of the rules contained in the Working Environment Act in terms of temporary employment, and in the proposal from the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e851	The government started by saying that it was very satisfied with the setting. Then I wonder, what would the superlative have if she had got a pass on her whole proposal as originally intended? Or is it the way the representative No Quail Bay said that what the government is presenting is an unfinished dough, that is, a work that is not finished, but as the government more or less randomly puts before the Storing, and then it's the task of the government party here in the house to knock this dough out, so that one can put it in the steak room – and then of course it becomes more separate when it comes out than if a set of government dough came into the steak room? I'm wondering a little bit about how the Council of State views this because one of these people had a chance to get an impact on the whole of his proposal, and then one of them is screwing up the possibility that one of them on death and life is going to cooperate with the Workers' Party. Or is it such that one, like the representative No Quail Bay, insofar as it seems that what the Government is presenting, is unfinished? I also thought it would seem very defensive when the Council of State says that the first department is about to start is to make rules for exceptions for those who can be hired. I then assume that the first derogation, if so required, will apply to the professional group to which the representative Odd Eriksen referred instead, namely health professionals. I think it's awfully defensive that the first thing you're going to do now is figure out what regulations and what obstacles you're going to put in place to make this work in a reasonable way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e858	To take the last one first, it's important that we already start work on regulations in all areas because they include: shall be consulted. We also need to make rules for payment services, and of course we also need to give priority to coming back with a proposition for setting up a government agency. So we're going to do a little bit more than just make a prescription. When it comes to the second point, that I'm very satisfied, yes, I'm very satisfied. I probably had said that I was very pleased if there had been cooperation with the other side as well. It is a little special that we are criticized for having given in to the Workers' Party, while the Right Party and the Advance Party criticise the Workers' Party for having received marginal counting, and that – I guess one said – almost a revolution has occurred in the Workers' Party. What the majority of the population, with the government parties, have done, and with which the government can live well, is to take into account that this is a major and important reform, and that it is important that as much as possible be behind the final outcome of the Storting. When we also have the Labour Party with us on the proposals, and in addition we know that we have secured subsidiary support from the Right and the Advance Party, it is joyous. In all cases, the Government has been able to implement its proposals in the matter. There are relatively small changes that we can live with, and for which it has also been important for the Work Party to get through. The most important thing now is that both workers and employers, as well as the business community, can understand that there is and will be a broad political settlement underpinning the decision of the Stortinget. Nobody got it all they wanted, but we can live well with what's here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e867	The term ‘revolution’ was related to a comment I had in the media, but it was not about the compromise that had been made – it is a little revolutionary in and on its own – rather about the violent change that has occurred in the Workers’ Party’s thinking over the last four years. Of course, I think that is positive. I have noticed that the representative, Rune Kristiansen, does not have any comments in this debate, even if he listens. He should perhaps have gone through his old views related to it. I have two questions for the Council of State. We can see that the Workers' Party has clearly signaled that leaders have now been put in place to ensure that health professionals are not exempted from the new regulations. Earlier in the debate, I asked the Labour Party to clarify the question of this in relation to the current situation in the health sector. Does this mean, then, that there is no basis for including a derogation for the health professions in the regulations? I would like to hear the Council of State's perception of the comments that are available, which in my opinion are a little difficult to read. Will the Council of State take into account that during the trial period we have now, there are no restrictions on the non-compliance of health professionals of different types with a ban? That's my one question. My other question concerns a topic that has not been addressed in the debate so far. We have one area that concerns possibilities for exemptions from the guarantee requirements relating to private communication, where the Progress Party and the Right would have wanted to give the Government a greater power to issue regulations. We know that, although it is often not said, there is a black economy, or a grey zone economy not least related to the provision of services in private homes. This is about childcare, for example. traineeships. This is happening. We know that there are many trainees who come from Denmark and Sweden, both through direct visits from employers and through people who communicate. We know that if we are going to demand NOK 100,000 in equity, or a guarantee from the company to do this, this will never become white. We would have wanted an access to lower the requirements to special groups. Does the Council have any comments on this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e876	In the case of the first, the Government shall be empowered to act in respect of all professional groups. And when we get that authority, it's also up to the government to carefully assess whether we're going to have regulations, and what groups we need regulations for at all times. I refer to my previous statement on the procedure for the possible establishment of such regulations, and the criteria that come with it. As far as the second question is concerned, the Government has proposed that this guarantee requirement should apply to all brokerage companies, in order to ensure the serious nature of the companies involved in these activities. We have not registered from the department that there is a great need for an exception in this field, but I have noticed the Right Note, and we will of course follow this closely. If necessary, we will make proposals for legislative adjustments in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e883	First of all, the professional rights. The Council of State says that the reason that the Government has not intervened in order to grant trade unions maritime rights is the need for parallelity in the law, § 58 A. Then there is a need to ask the Council of State: if you extend this to many groups of workers, as you do now, so that it becomes a whole new system, is it then this parallelity of legislation that is important, or is it how it works in society that is important? Could it not be appropriate to ensure that there were some mechanisms that would bring the important social interests into place? I miss an answer to that. So to the last, black work, that you were in the last line exchange. I have worked a little on it, especially in relation to the cleaning industry, and have had a lot of contact with the Tax Directorate, which confirms that there is a lot of black work going on. The fear now is that many more unusual jobs will be created where the forms of association are more loose and that this will increase. Therefore, SV has proposed an authorisation scheme to ensure quality assurance of enterprises and to ensure that they have orderly pay-and-work conditions and pay their taxes, etc. That's not what the ministry wanted. In connection with this, I would like to quote what the tax director writes, especially as regards the cleaning industry: ‘The widespread use of part-time workers and the fact that many people work for more employers’, see renting, ‘partly as a contractor’ and ‘partly as contractors,’ and ‘subsidiaries’, ‘makes numerical fixing difficult. ‘... It means that as the volume of this increases, so does the risk of black work and the black economy. What, then, is the reason why the Government and the Council of State have been totally reprehensible, for example. an authorisation system that could have ensured this control? The tax director writes that in those clean-up companies where a voluntary authorisation scheme exists, there are no such tax exemptions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e895	I want to go back a little bit in history and remember that we have had a comprehensive selection work on the basis of the Government's proposals for this reform. This is the option of the Blaalid Committee. In itself, the location of the Blaalid Committee was a major compromise between employee organisations and employers’ organisations. It has done a great, very good job, and we should not forget that this compromise contains quite strict restrictions, not least on the implementation of the liberalisation that lies here. In particular, I would like to refer to the important area in which § 58 A was concerned, concerning the hiring of labour. There has been a significant point here to ensure a parallelity within a system that was in operation and was well known to the organisations and employers. This is very important to bring with it, and I believe that the limitations in this will be taken seriously and respected by employers. I expect laws and rules will be kept. When it comes to control, the SV’s representative can give the impression that there are no control mechanisms in this system at all. That doesn't lead to correctness. It's control. Although the representative considers this to be too small, there is control, both with the temporary employment agencies, which are responsible for renting, and with renting, even though it is strictly private law, but here the trade unions can also be active and contribute to helping their members. So here's control.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e904	I have to get back to it with the union rights, because the Council of State does not give a good answer when she is asked about it. The Labour Party believes that rules on who can demand negotiations and bring proceedings against a lessee should have been extended, so that trade unions of lessees should also have an independent right to demand negotiations with and bring an action against the employer if a temporary worker considers himself illegally hired. We haven't had a majority for that. The government has been very concerned that the trade unions would not have such a right to bring an action. Why is the Council of State so afraid to grant this right to trade unions, and what experience does the Council of State have, which in the past has a long experience as head of a trade union, which means that the Council of State will not now grant such a right to trade unions? The representative of the Christian People's Party Gedrem is very pleased with the solution that is now being adopted. The same is true of the Council of States, which says she's very satisfied. That's good. The representative Gedrem also stated in a recent press conference that it has never been the government's intention to exempt the health sector from the law. Do the councils agree? As the representative Kvalbukt of the Central Party expressed himself here in the Chamber just, the Government presented a proposal that had not been reworked and which there was a great need to change during the process here in the Storting. Does the Council of State agree that it was a little elaborated proposal that was put forward, and does the Council of State agree that we now have a tighter and better regulation?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e913	As far as trade union rights are concerned, we believe that we have come up with a good solution. We know that the Labour Party wanted to give further rights, and also the Socialist Left Party. The government's proposals in this area are simply the rules of existing, established and tried-and-tested actions that are currently in force at the time of temporary addition, and we have not established anything new in addition to that. We have also assessed that giving legal rights to the individual worker in addition to perhaps giving it to a trade union could be difficult to manage, at least in cases where the individual worker and the trade union might not agree. And if the trade unions alone could have a court of law, perhaps without that employee wanting to do so, it would also be a little unfortunate. - Just to take two arguments related to it. The third concerns which trade unions should be able to sue, whether it is the trade union in which the employee concerned is organised, or another trade union, or whether the trade unions should be able to bring an action if the employee concerned was not organised at all. In other words, we have applied to established and tried-and-tested rules of procedure relating to temporary addition, i.e. a parallelity. It has been a clear premise from the Government regarding exemptions for health professionals that we would be allowed to establish a rule of exception. That's what we asked for, and that's what we got. Finally, the matter was very well thought out and developed by the Government. Equally full: once again, I'll say I'm happy for the support and the majority of this matter is going to get during the voting today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e926	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e930	Even with the regrettable restrictions imposed by the majority in the legislative process, the substantial liberalisation that we are currently making in the law on distribution and rental is a positive step forward, both for ordinary workers, for Norwegian business and for the labour market as a whole. It has been a long time to make a radical embellishment of the old Norwegian law, which thus prohibits private engagement for something as fundamental as helping people out in paid work. However, it is somewhat incomprehensible that the LO has been so consistent with this liberalisation, because I think it will be a clear advantage to the vast majority of the professionals, whether they are organised or unorganised. It's a clear human right to live from one's own work. In this context, it seems logical that there is an advantage to a variety of actors involved in the provision of employment and that can help to link job seekers to the job vacancies available in the labour market. Private employment services are likely to be a smaller but still positive complement to a process where the best possible help is to obtain a job in an increasingly complex and labour-intensive labour market. It is interesting to note that many people who are rented out by temporary employment agencies in different companies after a while actually become permanently employed in the enterprises to which they are rented. It will often be beneficial for more people to try out different workplaces with a slightly more flexible addition ratio to find out if they are well-being at this workplace, so that a better opportunity can be given to assess whether a fixed employment relationship where one is hired might be possible in the future. It is also a positive element in the agency's business that employees can manage their own daily lives differently from those of regular employment. I think that the flexibility of the individual in such a connection to the labour market, because some are dear and attractive. Thus, a larger market for temporary employment agencies can lead to more people participating in the labour market in a way that makes you feel that you have better control over your own time, and we get a participation in the value creation of society that is more custom-made. All in all, what we are doing today in this matter is an absolutely positive contribution to improving working conditions, improving conditions in Norwegian jobs and strengthening Norwegian business. That we, as politicians, can sometimes do something right, we should not be ashamed of ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e945	In order for there to be no doubt, I think I have to be allowed to clarify that the Workers' Party and Centre have agreed on, meaning that unemployment will apply everywhere – including in the health sector. There must be serious reasons for exempting some of these sectors. In politics, it is quick to learn that if a party does not have a clean majority and in that way gets through its affairs, negotiations with other parties – to take and give – are what is the alternative, and what will also be the second best solution. That is the last thing that has been the case for the Workers' Party in this case that we are now dealing with, Ot.prp. No 70 for 1998-1999 on employment and unemployment. The Labour Party already realized when the proposal was made by the Government, that here we could not expect to receive full support from the Centre Party, from which we have previously received support in matters relating to the rights of workers and which, together with the Socialist Left Party, have given a majority in the Stortinget. It was just to note that this is no longer the case. The centre party has changed its side to issues relating to the rights of workers. This does not promise good for similar matters in the future. Or is it that when the party replaces a member of the committee, the policy changes? Therefore, the Workers' Party cannot be satisfied with the setting that is now available, but I am pleased that the Workers' Party has been tightened on essential points in relation to the Government's proposal. And it's going to be the government parties here in Stortinget, because that means that we're now going to have a majority for a significantly tighter arrangement than the government put up to, and that's good. It is primarily good for employees to deal with and live with this change of law daily. It is also gratifying that we can see that the Right Party and the Advance Party are once again placed on the sideline and cannot contribute to the leadership of an even more liberal law than the Government proposed. Because that would be the result. We can read that out of the suggestions made by these Members in the vote. Because if they were to be in a majority, they also had to get something left to go into a deal with the center parties. Fortunately, the Workers' Party was able to prevent it. It's not like the representative Karin Ander later said, that the Workers' Party has not shown muscles. If the Workers' Party had not been a partner, the law would have been adopted as proposed by the Government. Today we have a law of older dates that we probably have to admit is not working optimally. Private employment services are prohibited, with certain exceptions, which can currently act at random. Questions may also be asked about whether current ways of demarcating or regulating rental are appropriate and whether the result of demarcation is appropriate. Therefore, the Workers' Party believes that it is right to reverse the law, so that private employment services and rental between companies are allowed in the main, but that this is regulated by a law that is simple and easy to understand for the parties responsible for handling this daily, so that they make it work. In the case of the Workers' Party, it is important to clean up a part of the rental market so that the lessee obtains the same conditions and arrangements as other employees in the enterprise. That must be the goal. This is why we believe it is good that the law provides clear limits on how much of the labour force that can be hired at any time. The government's proposal that 15 pst should be allowed to be hired. by employees for two years, was to go too far. That's why we're happy that we can now adopt a law that limits renting to 10 pst. and one year, but still not less than three persons in small enterprises, which is now the maximum that can be rented in. The working party believes that a work relationship should be secure both in terms of duration and protection against injustice and arbitrariness. Therefore, the general rule of Norwegian working life should remain a permanent employment. The whole committee also agrees. The Labour Party sees many problems with short-term work, but I have to add that today's work life has changed. Recruited rights with longer leave to take care of children, to take part in continuing training, to mention something, require temporary workers to take over the jobs of the permanent staff for a shorter or longer period of time. All of these things will require that we need more temporary workers, for shorter or longer periods of time and to a greater extent than before. An important point for the Workers' Party during the negotiations with the government parties has been that we should continue to have a large public, nationwide and powerful labour market seat. The A-strategy has and must continue to have special responsibility for those who have problems in the labour market. Therefore, the Workers' Party believes that the A budget should have the same opportunities as the private individuals to rent and be able to pay for the services they provide to employers. However, it is important to stress that services remain free of charge for job seekers. Only the Progress Party will have to pay for it for the jobseekers who need help to get into work. In that batch everything is to be purchased, so it is not so strange that this should also apply to the jobseekers. The Labour Party has been given a majority in order for us to have a public agency in the "A" budget in competition with the private sector. The Government shall now investigate and come back to the Stortinget with proposals for the organisation of a state-owned company. And no private temporary agency will be allowed to apply the new law until the public agency is in place. Therefore, the law should not be enforced until the rental company of the A-etatate is clear. I don't think it's going to take that long, and it's also confirmed by the Council of State. In this respect, the ministry will probably be under pressure from many parties to get the case back to Stortinget, so that decisions can be taken and the law started. It should also not be so difficult now to clarify the issues that have not yet been resolved, so that we can get started. The Labour Party believes that the Labour Market Act should be able to run its own temporary employment agency with the provision and rental of temporary workers in order to make it public as an even stronger player in the labour market. We believe that the agency must be organised as a wholly-owned company. We know that the fluctuations in the labour market are significant. That is why we need to have a labour market seat that works in the absence of labour as well as in a labour market with a high level of unemployment. We also believe that today's labour market, with growing demands for competence, requires quality and long-term qualification assistance for job seekers with a lack of or lack of skills, in order to increase the possibility of a longer-term link with the labour market for the individual unemployed. We can't afford to have people walking out of work because they lack qualifications for the job vacancies. No one is going to make me think that the private employment agencies will be equally concerned about getting the weakest in the labour market into work if it requires a greater effort in terms of training. We should also agree that many temporary jobs have been the start of a lasting normal working relationship. This is primarily to the benefit of the weakest in the labour market. This is why it is so important that the "A" budget has the same opportunities to hire temporary workers for shorter or longer periods of time, so that everyone gets to work on the labour market. The ‘A’ status will provide workers and employers throughout the country with the same opportunities to make use of the new and expanded services. Finally, we have over 60,000 unemployed, and we have a growing number of new unemployed people – many who want and are competent to do a job, including a part-time job. The changes in the laws that are now being introduced will make it possible to provide an even better offer to help them get into a desired employment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e979	In principle, the proposal and the setting-up of the Right-wing Repetitive Proposals for the liberalisation of the employment service and the hire of labour. The argument about the reversal of the law has produced results. Is it, then, that we can hit our chests and collect the total victory, and then focus our attention somewhere else? No, the political problem is far from being reversed, and considerable work and movement remain until we have achieved politically satisfactory liberalisation. The Ministry documents in the letter of reply that there has been a considerable increase in liberalisation in other countries in this field. The amendment of the law that we are about to adopt today means that we have to cancel ILO Convention No. 96 with effect only from 2002 unless ILO Convention No 96 directly replaced by ILO Convention No. 181. However, the limitation to which the majority of the size falls may be incompatible with the ratification of ILO Convention No 181. The Committee's treatment gives rise to reflection. Perhaps the most eye-catching thing is that the government parties in Stortinget also did not consider the government's need for the very first time to get their proposal through uncircumcision. Without any pressure, the central parties of the Workers Party and Kutter go roughly to the Government's proposal on the legal lease-in volume between production companies and also legally halve the duration of the lease-in cases without the agreement of the employees' organisations. Is it any wonder if the question comes up from time to time as to why Jagland doesn't just take over? The Workers' Party has rightly given substantial concessions in order to be able to remain in the good company at all times. The claim for named permits, previously indicated as a legal criterion for rental, has now been waived. Similarly, the Workers' Party has given up the trade union movement's wishes for an independent right to pursue possible offences through legal proceedings. This is also a fact that is worth noting. § 58A of the Working Environment Act has become a reference point in the setting as a limit set for rentals from rental companies. The problem is that this paragraph is unclear and, in many cases, is interpreted in a subtle way. When, in an additional comment, the Centre Parties and the Workers' Party will address the challenges of seasonal fluctuations, etc. through § 58A, there can be very easily a contradiction here that would logically lead these parties to support our proposal to remove the previous tightening of § 58A of the Working Environment Act. A more flexible piece of legislation such as the effective fight against structural unemployment was a central theme of the debate four years ago. The understanding of this has probably increased considerably since then. The same applies to rentals as the introduction to subsequent fixed additions. In this context, the legal text and practice provide the employee with the free possibility of being transferred to the lessee on a permanent basis. Worse still, six months of quarantine is introduced without the law being tested in practice — a test that could reveal a possible need for such a tightening. Due to this provision, flexibility desired by workers may be particularly limited in a thin labour market in District Norway. In our view, the order of the law adaptation is therefore wrong. It is gratifying that special restrictions on the hiring of health professionals are now being cancelled. The signals have changed in the process, and renting of health professionals and the mobility of personnel is restricted solely by general regulations relating to specific societal reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e998	There have been — and will be — major changes in the labour market. In recent years, there have been more and more shifting jobs, more and more project jobs, and new leave schemes such as paper and education leave have been introduced. The emergence of new channels of contact between employers and employees has been significant, and this has led to the need for a more flexible regulatory framework. It's not just through newspapers that people get a job, today the Internet, headhunter bureau and personal contact via friends and know a very common procedure to get a job. As the labour market has changed, there have been so many exceptions to today's legislation that it in itself advocates a review of the law. The aim of the Centre Party has been to ensure that the results of such a process meet its needs for flexibility, security for the employee’s working situation and that a system is managed that is sound. This is the option from the Blaalid selection, which is the basis for the proposition from the department. In this selection, the social partners have participated. It has therefore been important for us in the Center Party that the co-consultant setting from the Blaalid selection should also be part of the final result. After the selection has been set, the workers have made some changes. In the settings of the plurality, the government party and the Labour Party, we have received a result that reflects both the selection's attitude and the debate we have had after that of Ot.prp. No 70 for 1998-99 was provided. I am pleased that the Labour Party has been constructive and creative, so it has been possible to arrive at a solution between the Labour Party and the Government Party. In order to have a well-functioning business and a high level of employment, we believe it is important to have a code of conduct that is a broad outreach. Through the setting that the majority today are behind, we have got this wide opening. By providing employment services as a complement to the State Labour Market Act, the potential to reach jobseekers is increased. The law also opens up the possibility for government and municipal institutions, employment agencies and non-profit organisations to provide employment services. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the important principle that the intermediary cannot charge the jobseeker for the services he provides. It's only in a separate case, like, for example. in the case of transmission of au pair, this is permitted. Otherwise, this is not a change from today's practice.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e1019	The leader of the LO, Yngve Högensen, has called for a full review of the law affecting employment in Norway. He sees that today's laws and the challenges we face in the future are not compatible with each other. However, I sincerely want and hope that this law will be implemented and shaped on the employee's premises, through a powerful work in the labour movement that can facilitate a political process in retrospect. I think when I hear the debate here, that is the only way we can have the chance to get modern legislation on employment in Norway and take into account workers. I am partly frightened by what I hear from the Advancement Party and the Right, what ambitions, what goals they have of using the employees as a resource to enrich the employer, and not the other way around. It is the workers in Norway who hold the large resources needed to enable us to further develop business in such a way that we can maintain a competitive business. Without the influence of employees and employee organisations, we will be able to become a underdeveloped country that will not be able to compete on the international market. Therefore, it is disappointing to hear that there is a desire to pay so little attention to the influence of the organisations through their trust machine, and the right they have to participate in making decisions about the employee’s influence at work. On the other hand, it is also very disappointing to hear the representative Karin Andersen say that it is about showing muscles. It sounds like you forgot to count. You can just count the number of representatives sitting here in the house, and see how they're divided into the different parties, you see what the result is. Should the Workers' Party have followed the SV's strategy, it would have been the Progress Party and the Right, with their ideology, who had had an influence on what will become tomorrow's legislation for the workers. It's a development that I want to strongly warn against. For what is it that serves the Workers' Party and the interests of the labour movement? Well, it's essentially the same goal that serves the employee's interests. It is so absolute in the employee's interests that we have gone in and sought to negotiate a result that was better than the one put forward by the Government. In negotiations with the Progress Party and the Right, the result would have been even worse than what the Government presented. So the question is, why is the Minister of Labour and Administration so concerned about making the labour market seat able to function fully with his competence in this market? In my opinion, the strongest guarantee that the renting and hiring of labour and the use of temporary help were provided with a professionalism and a strength that really served both employers and employees in this country would be that we had a public establishment that was market-leading and set standards for how this work was to be done. I can't see any other way to solve this. I believe that the reasons for distortions of competition, cross-subsidies, etc. are secondary. This is what it's all about to solve. The overall objective is to have a labour market seat which, in all areas, is able to interfere heavily with the dissemination of labour in order to set standards on how to do so, so that the private market has some proper standards to deal with. I believe that both the employers and the employees in Norway will be able to do so in the future. In conclusion, I would like to say that of course we wish that the outcome of the negotiations had improved. It was as good as we did to get it, and we have to live with it. I do not understand that the Socialist Left – which should really be the ones who had the greatest interest in ensuring that we got a grip on this matter, in order to transform the labour market and the labour market into setting good standards for this type of activity in the future – blames the Workers' Party for a proposal put forward by a bourgeois government. It is totally unheard of, and I do not think it is possible to meet the future major challenges of such an approach.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e1034	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The President hopes that it will not now be added to a round number. 2 in this debate. The President recalls that Odelstinget will also deal with an additional agenda – and hopes that this wish will be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e1039	The reason why I am now extending the debate a little in a busy pre-Christmas time with both baking and other things is that several representatives in their posts have made a visit to me. Both the representative Solholm and the representative Eye found reason to point out that I underlined the importance of having political processes. I was a little surprised, I think those representatives might have talked a little bit against what they really think. I don't want to underestimate the role of the Storting – on the contrary, I have the greatest respect for the work that is going on here, and I hope this is where the most important political work is going on in this Chamber. The issue we are dealing with today is a very important one, a very sensitive one, in which we have in many ways had to reconcile considerations that may initially seem contradictory, in a legislative proposal to ensure the best possible care of both employees and employers. Several representatives have pointed to the development of the labour market. Yes, we are constantly evolving. The fact that we have received many recordings also after the matter was taken up shows that. And it's kind of nice to look at the background of this case, I think. First it was raised as Document No. Eight proposals here in Stortinget, and the government has put down a sample that quickly delivered its results, which was then out for consultation, and in the light of that consultation process, the ministry comes up with proposals for us – and of course, the work was not to be done there. We've been through a good process. There's a difference between things. I used a picture – baking. Maybe you should be careful to illustrate, because we know that when someone reads comics, they just look at the pictures and don't read the text. An illustration can often give more understanding. As there is a difference between pastries, there is also a difference between things. I don't ignore the fact that we've had someone made just with baking powder, and that can be put right into the oven when it comes to the Stortinget, but this is a matter where it's absolutely fermented a lot. I think the result we have now is very good, and I think the government is pleased that it can actually show that it has got through a proposal here that is very close to its original proposal. It's certainly not every time that it's the result of a controversial political process here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e1048	During No Quail Bay posts I got a moment of acutely bad conscience, I got the feeling that I should really rather be at home and baked Christmas cakes instead of spending more time. But I need to comment on two things. One is that the representatives Kosmo and Eye of the Workers' Party have obviously failed to understand what the contributions from both the Advance Party and the Right have gone through today, and what has been the process in this context. We said we would subsidize the entire government package. That is why the representative Karin Andersen is right in saying that it was between having the Government's order adopted or what the government parties have negotiated with the Workers' Party. It's not like we saw for ourselves that we could change the government's arrangement in our direction. We see in particular that much of what's available from the Government is good, but at some points we see that we could not get ahead of the problems. We could see how the adaptations were in the market, and then we could see if there was a need for all the fences after practicing a slightly more liberal law. No quail bay meant in an article earlier that there is no difference between her and Morten Lund. Then I just wanted to refer to my main post, where I showed that two years ago Morten Lund was very clearly opposed – in fact the strongest opponent in this room – to the establishment of a public agency. If there is no longer any difference, Morten Lund has in that case radically changed his point of view. Then there was one question from the representative Sylvia Brustad that I did not get answers to, and it was the relationship of competition when setting up a temporary employment agency in charge of the labour market. The process has been such that when the proposal first came up, the right was not 100 pst. negative to this issue, because, in principle, we have an approach that requires public exposure to be in areas where the market does not solve the problems. Where there is a market failure, we can imagine that there should be a public engagement, and we could imagine areas related to temporary rental where the market could not solve all the problems, for example. in relation to individual occupational groups and districts. But then we have seen that there are too many major problems related to the issue of distortion of competition, to create proper distinctions between the usual activities of the labour market parliament and what this agency is going to do. The fact that you are also a full-time supplier to the other temporary employment agencies will create major problems. We believe that we can solve the market failure problem, which could provide for a public responsibility, through what we have called partnership agreements with other temporary employment agencies, with other types of agencies that can do that without going the way of establishing their own temporary employment agency. And I have to say that I think it's strange when the Workers' Party, among other things. have comments in the setting where you want to form temporary swimming pools and everything is going to be nationwide. This means that there will be an enormous increase in labour responsibility for the labour market parliament. We believe the focus on the weak will be removed. There we have discovered that we actually agree with the union of labour market workers.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e1059	I realized at the post of representative Kosmos that it is clear that the Workers' Party is not doing well today, and that SV has hit some sore toes. But there is one thing I agree with the representative Kosmo in, and as SV has written in the position of the Ministry of Local Affairs budget in the autumn, namely that there is a need for a broad review of the conditions in the labour market and the future. We have arranged to get a big message about working life in the 21st century. Maybe we can agree with the Working Party on that. So to why the Workers' Party has now bowed down here, when they have clearly almost got nothing. It doesn't mean what they've got, but the problem is they're legitimizing the whole system. And if it had been so important for the Workers' Party to decide every single time, how could it be that it is the Progress Party and the Right that have settled the budget with the Government for the last two years? After all, the Workers' Party should have swallowed the cash subsidy two years ago and settled the budget, because they must have got something that had been in the spirit of the Workers' Party in those years as well. In a few weeks we will decide on the case of IT-Fornebu. If so, for example. Does it turn out to be a majority in the Chamber for what the Workers' Party has not meant, then does it mean that the Workers' Party is turning around, or are they on what they mean? There's a reason to get an answer. It seems from the debate that it has been important for the Workers' Party to establish that it is not going to sneak into some notion of a ban on hiring health professionals, that it has in some way been more important than securing professional rights and not legitimising what is happening now. It amazes me, for I have not seen that in that case it would have become a majority for anything other than what the Workers' Party had done at that point, too, together with others. That's where we've all actually agreed. So, until some of that state council was in the middle of its article. She tried to explain – but not very clearly – that there should be some sort of control here, and explained why trade unions should not have independent legal redress. She said that there may be some temporary workers who do not want to do this, and that you have different interests. Is it true that if employees and employers want to break the law? Doesn't the law apply then? That must be the conclusion. I am somewhat surprised that the Council of State, which has been the head of a large trade union, does not see the social interest attached to the fact that the trade union movement can have rights in relation to the fact that the law and regulation are maintained. In most cases, the individual and the trade union movement have similar interests. But sometimes it's not quite certain that it is, and then it's important to make sure that those who are going to care for the collective interests have the opportunity to do so. Because it's just the collective that can ensure that the temporary workers have a decent salary that they can live on.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e1070	Finally, I note that we disagree, among other things. on the number of control bodies needed. I take as my starting point that companies will comply with the legislation. We believe that the proposal we have put forward is good enough, and that what I have said before is based on well-integrated systems. I hope and believe that it will be sufficient. Of course, we should not accept illegalities. When it comes to one matter, I almost have to make a comment – although it was not the intention to discuss the organisation of the agency itself – as the representative Eye goes so deeply into it. In this respect, it will be important to do a thorough job related to the commercial, legal, administrative and competitive considerations in the organisation of the State agency, as is also stated in the vote of the majority to be taken. The relationship with the labour market will also need to be explored and further elaborated. Renting temporary employment in the state sector will be a new tool in labour market policy. As a whole, the Ministry of Labour and Administration will be able to make an overall offer in terms of labour market policy. But how this is to be organised, and how the relationship to the labour market becomes, we are given ample opportunity to come back to the next round of the Stortinge when we debate the creation of the incorporated company/viary bureau.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e1077	I have to comment on a few statements that have been made at the bottom of the debate. One is from the representative of Solberg, who is critical to us because, for example, we are. believes that the incubator pool that they are now operating in Rings axes should be made nationwide. I'm surprised that Solberg disagrees with that, because I've realized that the Right is one of the parties that talk the most about improving efficiency in the public sector, and that will even go even further. This is the best example of the fact that if a user uses people at the place where they are to be used, he will have more efficiency and modernisation, and a sheep will be released, not least in the care sector, which should deal with what they are going to do, namely care for the sick and the elderly. And then the labour market seat gets to take care of what they're going to do, that's to convey temporary workers. That must be good. Everyone wins it, everyone makes money on it, unemployment goes down and one gets more people to work. I am surprised that the Right adopts that attitude, which I have not seen expressed in the setting, but which I hear now. To SV I have to say that I react a little to the way they argue. One thing is that we can have different road choices – and obviously we do. But when the Labour Party, and there have been several speakers here today, has chosen to enter into a compromise, it is because if we hadn't, the Government's proposal would have been given a majority. There would have been a majority in Stortinget if we had not in this house got the centre parties to make a compromise that means significant tightening in some areas that are important, in favor of employees' rights. We actually think it's more important for most people out in the workplace that we get to some tightening in favour of them than just sitting still and looking at, protesting for the whole world with our scheme and just seeing that it becomes too liberal. I find that SV chooses the other way, to protest for the whole world and not get to any of the world's things. We're more concerned with the results, and I actually think that the workers around the country are also more concerned with it than with political markers. We haven't got everything we wanted, but we've made significant improvements. The alternative was Regeringen's approach, and we are very upright in relation to the compromise we have reached. I see, among other things: that there is a significant change when we go from 15 pst. and two years, to 10 pst. and one year. That is also what the workers believe. Finally, I would like to comment on the relationship with the rental company. Now the government is going to come back to that, but I want to make one suggestion: Let's not make competitive considerations and various jus do it so that we don't get to what's most appropriate for the employees around the country. I feel quite convinced that it will, get one more, and it is possible to find solutions for the most part. In conclusion, I would just like to repeat that the comment agreed by the Labour Party and the Centre in the vote, which states that the services provided by the Labour Market Act are to be further developed, is not random. That means there's some leads there. Then the government gets back, and then we get to take the detailed discussion about it. But to say that now there are blank sheets does not result in correctness to the setting that is currently being adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e1093	Erna Solberg has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e1096	I just want to be allowed to clarify our relationship with the question related to temporary work pools and exemp easily in Ringsaker Municipality. We think it's a very positive measure. We've also praised it in our own comments. We don't think it's up to the labour market parliament to do all of this in the future, but we think it's very positive that they're contributing to development work. We think it would be natural that the part of the temporary pool that goes on normal operation is gradually being brought back to the municipalities, because it is a function that the municipalities themselves should be able to operate with the software developed for the state's money, which should therefore be able to be handed over free to the local government sector, but to maintain a partnership in such a field. In order to qualify persons for such a temporary pool, the labour market seat is part of the responsibility. It is in the heart of what is already the task of the labour market parliament to enter into a partnership with such a pool, which in the future should be operated by individual municipalities. It would be totally wrong if the state were to take over the type of human resources that this actually is, from the entire municipal sector, and transfer it to state responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e1103	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 239]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e1117	This setting has not been out of range for the regulatory period, i.e.: 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Odelstinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e1122	If I don't say anything very wrong now, this is probably going to be a very short debate. When the Storting lifted both the strict and the mild regulation on the housing market in March this year, there was tension about how this would affect the individual rentals. This was particularly the case with strict regulation, i.e. with housing built before the war. Later, Stortinget discussed how the department should inform, among other things. about housing allowances for those who would come under such a scheme. The background for this document no. The 8-proposal was promoted: information has been found that some lessors have demanded some substantial rent increases for dwellings built after 1940, which are thus affected by the mild regulation. There is a broad political majority behind the current legislative changes. The laws contain transitional arrangements to ensure that the rentals covered by the old house rental law are provided with a monitoring body to ensure that rentals are made clean against unreasonable rent requirements. For many, going to justice is both practical and economically very difficult. It is therefore important that Husleinenmenda now has jurisdiction over what is market rent under § 3-1, or is remunerated under § 4-3 of the Law of 26 March 1999. As can be seen from the Housing Lease Regulations Act, Oslo and Trondheim must maintain house lease issues, in the context of the transitional arrangements in the abolition of strict regulation. As a consequence of the changes in the law that are being made today, Husleinenmenda is now also responsible for matters covered by Section 35 of the House Rental Act of 1939. An overall committee stresses that the purpose of the rental contract is to contribute to the establishment of a well-functioning housing market. If the rental market, as part of the total housing market, is to function satisfactorily, there must be a good balance between the different interests in the market. The Committee stresses the importance of this and asks the Government to follow developments and, if necessary, to return to the Storting if this balance does not function properly. I recommend the unanimous vote of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e1141	In 12 hours this proposal came, which closes the largest and worst hole after the rental market in Oslo and in the five largest cities they were regulated – it will come into force from 1 January 2000. What's happening now is a broad consensus. Once again, you close the biggest and most ugly hole – you give the tenants an authority to use a paragraph that says you should not be able to take unreasonable rents. In practice, it means largely market rental. We know a lot about how it is in Oslo now. So I'm afraid this won't be any very good Christmas for many of those who are hit by this. To draw a small link to the matter we have just finished, it was said that you would give yourself up if you knew you were right. During the examination of this case, SV had a very long-term proposal to maintain the rentals with the function they have today. We gradually failed to realize that, and we eventually went into the dispute resolution body, which is still not up and standing, for some strange reason. But afterwards it turned out that it was right – everything SV said in that case was right. There is not a fundamental resistance of SV to abolishing these regulations, but it is the wrong time, because in Norway there is a complete lack of the stock of reasonable rental dwellings that you had to have in order to implement these deregulations. I guess it's also hard to give the government right in what they wrote in the proposition at the time: ‘The repeal of Chapter III is not expected to have significant consequences for the private parties. ‘... Furthermore, it says that for those tenants who cannot pay the increased rental prices, an alternative could be to move to slightly smaller and cheaper dwellings. It's impossible. During this last hectic day, SV tried to make some improvements in the law. For technical reasons, it was not possible to present those proposals, since this is a matter which requires legislative work to ensure that the legal provisions are consistent. That's why we've chosen to write it just in the form of an annotation. But we had at least a wish that we had also let the tenants handle a provision where they could put the rent down to the rent of a bunch. In practice — and at least in a market where rentals increase month by month — it has been found that the rent of the gang is both below market rent and below what can be called an unreasonable rental. It would have been an advantage. But sail it would probably have made a lot of people unable to avoid the big house rent increases that they now have to see in their eyes. The only hope I can have from the recognition that has now been reached in this treatment is that, until next year, you show a completely different willingness to bet on building out the reasonable dwellings that could be an alternative for those who will not now cope with the increases in the rentals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e1161	Several have not asked for the floor on the supplementary agenda. [[See page 244]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e1169	Odelstingen goes to voting in case No. 1 – 3 on agenda No. 12 and then on case No. 1 on supplementary agenda No 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e1215	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e1223	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e1395	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e1403	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e1409	In the course of the debate, eight proposals have been put forward. It's: proposals Nos. 1 to 5, by Erna Solberg on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 6-8, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The President first takes note of the proposals. 1 and 5, from the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1, sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to use the last paragraph of Section 26 to create a unified regulatory framework with lower guarantee requirements for the provision of services such as trainee, babysitting, day-mother and for specific low-recital district-based establishments. ‘... Proposal No. 5, sounds like: ‘The government is asked to provide alternative models to set up a public agency to set up schemes in which the labour market seat can enter into partnerships with private employment agencies or employment agents, and public or private users to further develop the areas outlined in the plan where a temporary agency or financed by payment from the user. ‘... The proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e1511	There are two different proposals. That is proposal No. 3, by Erna Solberg, on behalf of the Party of Progress and the Right, and it is proposal No. 7, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. In the case of New Section 55 K, there will first be a vote between the vote and the proposal of the Socialist Left Party. 1, point 3rd and 3rd paragraphs and paragraphs 4 second and third paragraphs. The proposal from the Socialist Left is as follows: ‘In Law No 4 February 1977 4 on health and safety at work, etc. It shall be amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e1557	As an alternative, the position of Komi teen and the proposal of the Advance Party and the Right in the case of § 55 K nr. 2nd@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 4 February 1977 4 on health and safety at work, etc. It shall be amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e1576	The other numbers and paragraphs under § 55 K are taken up for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e1608	There is an aberrant proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party, to the whole paragraph. The Progress Party and the Right have announced that they are moving towards No. Two and three. So first there is a vote on the proposal from the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e1631	There will then be a vote on § 55 L nr. of the adjustment. Two and three. Here the Progress Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e1641	There will then be a vote over § 55 L nr. of the adjustment. 1 and 4.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e1649	The President will vote on proposal No. 3 from the Party of Advancement and Right in the case of § 58 A No. 1st@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e1716	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 8, from Socialist Left Party to No. So this is the first sentence. Alternatively, between the Committee's setting up Section 3A No. 3rd sentence and the proposal from SV. The proposal reads as follows: «In Law No. 4 March 1983 No. 3 on government officials, etc. It shall be amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e1733	It is then voted over the other number and sentence of the paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e1763	There is an aberrant proposal here, No 8, from the Socialist Left Party to the whole paragraph. The Progress Party and the Right have announced that they are moving towards No. Two and three. There is therefore a vote first on the proposal from the Socialist Left Party and then on the vote. The proposal from the Socialist Left is as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e1859	To the last paragraph, there are two divergent proposals. That is proposal No. 2 by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 6, from the Socialist Left Party. In addition, the Progress Party has announced that it is moving towards the third paragraph. The President will first allow us to vote on the first and second paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e1873	It is then voted on the third paragraph of Paragraph 26.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e1884	As far as the last paragraph is concerned, the President will first vote on proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party, and then alternately between the vote and proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal from the Socialist Left is as follows: ‘In Law 27 June 1947, No. 9 on measures to promote employment, the last paragraph of Section 26 shall be replaced by the following:Enterprises wishing to provide employment shall be approved by the Ministry or by the Ministry of Employment. The Ministry may impose requirements for the approval of the establishment and lay down detailed conditions for the notification, reporting, supervision, organisation and operation of the intermediary activity and, in specific cases, may derogate from the prohibition laid down in the third subparagraph. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e1900	Alternatively, between the Committee's position on the last paragraph of Section 26 and the proposal of the Party of Advances and the Right, which reads as follows: ‘In Law 27 June 1947, No. 9 on measures to promote employment, the last paragraph of Section 26 shall be replaced by the following:The Ministry may lay down detailed conditions for the notification, reporting, supervision, organisation and operation of intermediary activities and, in exceptional cases, may derogate from the guarantee requirement in the first subparagraph or the prohibition in the second subparagraph. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e1943	The President has understood that the Progress Party and the Right will vote against Section 27, second paragraph, No. 2, and it goes first over the number. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e1953	The other paragraph and the number of the paragraph are taken up for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e1969	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 4, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘IV shall be replaced by the following:The law shall enter into force on 1 January 2000. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e1984	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e1992	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e2076	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e2084	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-17-lower.ana.ud2312e2093	There is no record.
