ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-21-lower.ana.ud1229e34	Technical college is an important training offer in vocational training. The vocational school provides practical theoretical training such as: qualify for managerial positions and which is a good offer, among other things. in the case of continuing training. In a labour market that constantly demands increased skills, the need for workers with professional experience and technical vocational school appears to be significant and increasing. It is sad to note, then, that the school is struggling with headwinds, both in terms of applicants and in terms of financial frameworks. An overall committee notes that the lack of will and tight financial framework in the county municipality have led to the depriority of the school battle. One explanation might be that the county council prioritizes the statutory offer in secondary school rather than spending money in technical vocational school. Nevertheless, it is clear that there is a need for clarification in relation to the future development of technical schools in Norway. The school has in many ways fallen between two chairs because it is neither secondary school nor ordinary university/high school. Also legally it has been without a proper anchoring point. The beginning of relieving this problem is hopefully the temporary law on technical colleges that we are going to adopt today. It may seem that this matter is small and undramatic, but it is not. For those who do this, the technical college students, both the current and the future, and for the enterprises that need this type of labour, this is a central milestone in the development of the school type. The setting will show that a joint committee is behind mentioning those who attend technical colleges, as students and not students, as they have in many cases been called before. This may seem to be a minor change, but is a clear recognition of these as adults and should therefore have rights and obligations in relation to this. The Committee is also set up to improve the provision of study finance for the group. As I said, this is an adjustment marked by a lot of consensus we are dealing with today. As I see it, there are relatively marginal issues that each party disagrees on and that require special comments. These will be dealt with carefully in future technical subjects. What is important today is that technical colleges are given a legal foundation to ensure that training provision is maintained and further developed, and that quality and continuity are ensured. I think this can best be done by maintaining the technical vocational schools as an independent school team anchored in a permanent law based on this position and the temporary law that we are to adopt today. Of course, due account must also be taken of the conclusions to be drawn from the selection work to be completed in March 2000. I will then deepen the view of the Advance Party in relation to our particular comments and the comments we share with the Right. The Progress Party has a note referring to the selection work to be carried out and requests that proposals for permanent law for technical colleges be submitted to the Stortinget as soon as possible after the selection work has been completed. It is also our hope that the law that then comes will be more complementary and clarifying, among other things. in relation to the financing of the school. The law must also be more concrete and binding in relation to rights than the law we are adopting today. But we understand, of course, that for this work you need time. Both the Right Party and the Advance Party are concerned that students who wish to apply for technical vocational school should be able to do so independently of their home country. The Right Party and the Advance Party also agree on the idea that it would be natural to find a form in which the State is given financial responsibility for this school. I would like to point out here that a number of the hearing opinions have been in favour of a state acquisition of the technical colleges. I suppose this will be assessed in connection with the work to be done with the permanent law. The Progress Party has also outlined a future model for technical vocational schools, among others. based on the so-called unit price or school-checking system. We want a technical school model based on free, independent units that get their income calculated from the number of students. The proposition has outlined openings for the co-location of secondary schools and technical colleges. This is, of course, a situation where in practice there are several places. There is a sketch of the possibility of common rules of procedure, joint school committees and joint pupil/student councils. The minority in the Committee, the members of the Progressive Party and the Right, have explained in their comments why they do not want such arrangements. The majority of the Committee has adopted a somewhat more restrictive line than that proposed by the Ministry and tightens the text of the law with a requirement for the approval of the Ministry before the County Council establishes common rules. I hope that the department will conduct a rigorous practice to show the clear distinction that will be between technical and secondary schools. At the end of the day, I will be allowed to comment on the proposals of the Advance Party that have been referred to in the vote. I suppose the president has put up the vote so that voting on the individual paragraphs will reflect the views of the parties as set out in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-21-lower.ana.ud1229e73	Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The President will, of course, comply with the request made.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-21-lower.ana.ud1229e78	First, I would like to pay tribute to the rapporteur, who has managed in a good way to bring together the Committee for the benefit of a school that was probably hanging something in the air, or fell between two chairs, both in the context of Reform 94 and the reform of higher education. So the size has asked for a temporary law until we get an arrangement for the school battle. I would also like to refer to what happened after we had those reforms, namely a decrease – it may, of course, have many reasons – in terms of the student admission to this school. What both the Government and the Grand Duchy are doing today is to ensure this school battle by law, and then to come back after the sample work to determine how it is to be implemented in concrete terms. After all, it is the Stortinge that has asked for the sample to be set up, and the majority therefore believe that it must wait to place the school team organisationally until the sample has finished its work — it is due to give its place on 1 March next year. But it is important that the school team is ensured by a law, and the further development of this will now be important. We believe it is necessary to ensure that there is a school that can help further middle managers, for example. in the construction sector and within the maritime sector, enabling individuals and businesses to update themselves in an increasingly competitive society and business. Today, technical vocational schools are financed by the county within the scope of the Tertiary Education Code. However, because this is primarily about adult students, the Committee has stressed that they should have their own school boards and student councils, and that a person must apply for a derogation if it is local to do so in a different way. The Committee has also argued that some of the students — those who have gone further in high school — may lose the right to have their study funded through the State Loan Fund, and that this also needs to be cleared up. However, with regard to future ties, the Labour Party believes that the Government must have as its starting point for further work that the school team should be able to provide different competences. So it might as well be a specialisation, a post-secondary education, which comes to the top of a vocational education, as a competence which, in the next round, can be a module of higher education. And then it may be – and that's also some of the reason why we don't pre-empt the sample – that with a new continuing education reform, with so much need it will be for different centres of expertise, we might see that the state will be an actor with others in a partnership rather than that the state will be entirely alone. This will be a school class that will be so closely linked to the working life that it may also be easier to motivate adult students to start an education. So we don't ignore the fact that there can be a partnership, even if we also want to stress that we need to secure the school battle, and that what is now part of the scope regulations is a very poor solution. With this I will recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-21-lower.ana.ud1229e91	Would Rolf Reikvam have a line?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-21-lower.ana.ud1229e94	Yes, if possible, President.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-21-lower.ana.ud1229e101	The president hadn't made a line change, but if he wants to, of course he'll meet it. The President then proposes that a replacement of lines be opened with up to three lines of answers. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-21-lower.ana.ud1229e106	I have a little question for Grete Knudsen. It goes into the future to the school team, or the temporary period we have ahead of us before we get a permanent law on the basis of the Berg committee's investigation. There's probably reason to assume that before we get a permanent law, or a law that we're going to live with over a longer period, it's likely to take three to four years. So we're going to live with this law for three or four years. We have had a sharp decline in the number of students in the school team, and my question to Grete Knudsen is then: Does Grete Knudsen and the Workers' Party believe that there must be some carrots or some incentives to the county councils to ensure that we are able to maintain the offer for the next three or four years until we get a proper review of the entire law in this area? And what will the Workers' Party possibly see as possible carrots, possible incentives, to stimulate county municipalities to set up that type of study places in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-21-lower.ana.ud1229e113	Today, when we adopt a temporary law, this means that this school battle is still under the control of the county council. At the same time, we are aware that it is totally unsatisfactory to be part of the scope regulations as it is today – most likely the student number will continue to fall. So I'm going to ask the government to now carry out a survey and look at the good environments in the technical colleges, and that they need to be given special attention – that it's not just about the scale regulations, because then we can't get it done, and then in three or four years we won't have that school team anymore. So what we're doing today is that the government is taking inwards that it needs special attention to be able to survive at all. With today's system, it won't make it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-21-lower.ana.ud1229e118	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-21-lower.ana.ud1229e121	I am pleased that it is a unanimous committee that will now retain and further develop the school battle technical vocational school. It was also pointed out in the new Training Act in June 1998, when the decision to have a temporary law in the United Kingdom was taken. This is a school battle that needs to find its form and content. We also need to clarify both funding and responsibility for the school team, which is the mandate of the Berg Committee. Clearly, this type of school has new markets and new opportunities in both continuing education, as the representative Grete Knudsen pointed out, but also because we now see new types of education that do not need to be part of the higher education system. A temporary law is necessary to preserve the school team. This legislative proposal also allows the Ministry to prevent closures by adopting a national school plan. Here, then, the Ministry may refer to guidelines for the dimensioning of education provision. The Christian People's Party would like the county councils to cooperate on this school offer, so that one gets an intake across county borders and can also get a better promotion of the school offer. We believe that part of the decline in the search is due to the fact that the school team has not been marketed enough. For the Christian People's Party, it has also been important to facilitate unbureaucratic and practical solutions to continue the school team. We emphasise that technical colleges should have a special nature, and the general rule on separate regulations and governing bodies is also laid down in the law. But we have several small offers that are co-located with high school, and for these it is necessary to have practical arrangements. That is why I am pleased that the majority sees the need and opens up access to the states to apply for common rules. The Right Party and the Advance Party will already decide who will be financially responsible for technical vocational school. We in the Christian People's Party want to see the entire profile and content of the school team before we finally take a stand. I think the committee leader in his post has argued well why it is right to see the entire selection and the entire profile and content of the school team in the context before taking a position on this. That's what the Berg Committee is working on. It is also important to get the opinion of the Hearing Officers on this position before we conclude. I think such a procedure will benefit the entire school team. Finally, the Christian People's Party is pleased that we are now getting a temporary law that ensures the school battle pending more permanent legislation and placement of the school battle. Christian People's Party wants to maintain technical vocational school. We believe it has a role in the education system, and that also means that students at these schools need to be guaranteed a good funding for their studies. Thus, these students must be given the opportunity to borrow and to obtain scholarships regardless of the number of years in secondary school.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-21-lower.ana.ud1229e139	Technical vocational school is said to have fallen between two chairs in the Norwegian education system. I'm not sure that's the most striking expression. I think it's more precise to say that technical college has become the back of the medal that the great reform effort of the Norwegian education system in the late 1980s and early 1990s was supposed to be. It's called a system coercion. System constraints result from the aim of a fully streamlined three-stage education system: a ten-year primary school, a three-year secondary school and then a university/high school level. Technical colleges are rather indeterminate in the grey zone between higher education and higher education. Another consequence of the fact that technical technical schools have not quite naturally fallen into place in the streamlined system is that they have also not found their safe place in the system financially. It is therefore gratifying that, on the basis of the initiative taken by the Right-wing Party in the examination of the Training Act in 1998, it has become fully agreed that there is a need for a temporary law pending a more permanent clarification of the place of this training provision in the overall picture. Through the Committee's work on the matter, it has become very clear from the user's point of view – in fact, clearly both from those taking over the students leaving technical colleges and from those applying for education themselves – that this is a good training offer. It is a training offer that is suitable for some of the students who do not naturally find their place in the university and higher education systems, and it is a training offer that many industries need, because it provides a competence that these industries need. It was said by the representative Lyngstad that the Right Party and the Advance Party already wanted to lock down and advance the conclusion of the ongoing investigation work. That's not a correct description. The joint comment in the vote of the members of the Progress Party and of the Right does not thus conclude. It sounds like this: ‘These members agree that a final clarification can only take place after the Berg Committee has completed its work, but will already state that there is an urgent need to clarify the future form of funding. Today’s uncertain situation, where, from year to year, depending on county priorities, creates problems and uncertainties for all parties involved. At the same time, it is important to ensure that the admission system is set up in such a way that applicants can be admitted to technical colleges, irrespective of their home country. Both of these considerations, in the opinion of these members, indicate that it would be natural to find a form in which the State is given the financial responsibility for this school action.’ In addition to this, a proposal has been tabled by the Party for Progress, proposal No. 1, which goes further, and that says, ‘The Government asks the Government, as part of the work of a permanent law on technical colleges, to assess a state acquisition of the funding of the schools.’ On the right, we consider it most desirable for the Progress Party to transform this proposal into a transmission proposal. In that case, we think it is a completely curative proposal. On the other hand, we see no reason at present, through voting, to take a stand on the content of the proposal. Let me then point to one point where the right has taken up a separate proposal. This concerns the wording of Section 1 of the proposal for a temporary act. There is, in our opinion, a linguistic formulation that is unfortunate and suitable for creating confusion in the reader. It is stated in the second paragraph of the proposal: ‘Technical colleges shall be a continuing training offer to enable professionals and adults to do so’, etc. This use of the innocent, small word ‘and’ is not a recommendable use, because the two sizes associated with it are not parallel, but overlapping sizes. That's why it's suitable to create ambiguity to formulate itself that way. From the right, we cannot see that this specification in the legal text is at all necessary, because if you read the current first paragraph together with the second paragraph, the purpose is clear enough without including the words ‘professionals and adults’. Finally, I would like to reiterate that it is gratifying for us to have a temporary law, and I interpret the provisional law and the committee's broad and unanimous consideration of this proposal to the point where there is reason to believe that in a few years' time we will also have a permanent law that ensures the future of this school team as a good offer, both to those who are applying for education and to many of the industries in our business.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-21-lower.ana.ud1229e164	The President assumes that Inge Wohnning also wants to make the Right proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-21-lower.ana.ud1229e167	That's quite correct, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-21-lower.ana.ud1229e172	Inge Wohnning then put forward the proposal referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-21-lower.ana.ud1229e175	There is reason to be concerned about the future of the school team. In the setting we have shown the decline in the number of students in the last few years. This has happened despite the development of new offers, so in isolation there should have been an increase in student access to this school. But I'm glad we're now getting it legal for this school team. It's important to stress that this is not something new in itself. What we are doing now is continuing an established practice, where the county is responsible and where this is to be financed within the framework transfers to the county municipalities. The fact that there has been a decrease in the number of students in recent years may be due to several relationships. This may be because we've been in a boom, and we know from experience that there's a decline in the search for this type of study in high economic periods. But I am also quite convinced that part of the decline is due to the fact that this school has been too low a priority of the county councils. They've been forced into it for economic reasons. There is also reason to recall that the admission requirements themselves, at least in recent years, have been tightened, not by the ministry, but the way in which this has been interpreted in the counties has meant a narrowing. It has become more difficult to get in because one has required knowledge in the general professions corresponding to VK I level in secondary school. This has been interpreted by some county councils and in some places so that the real competence can be acquired only at a certain advance. It has helped to prevent some applicants who were previously qualified from entering this school. The ministry has made several attempts to tighten this up and clean it up in these circumstances, but I will ask the ministry again in the years to come, as long as we keep the temporary law, to clean it up and keep an eye on what is happening around the county municipalities. I'm glad that the committee has been somewhat tightening up in relation to what was available from the department. This applies in particular to Section 2. I am pleased that the majority has supported the proposal made by SV, which goes in three areas. One is that we are now clarifying that there should be national targets for this school. It has been said that the department can provide regulations, and I sincerely hope that the department sees the need for its own regulations to be established, defining and clarifying national targets for the school team. In addition, it is clarified that county municipalities can cooperate on offers to cover one or more counties. It's important, because there's reason to believe that some students aren't being picked up because there's been no order in the guest student settlement system in this school battle, which has led to some offers being cancelled. The fact that we are now saying that county councils can cooperate on offers is an important clarification. I also think it is important that one in the coming years is concerned about developing new offers at this level. We have said something about the definition of ‘professional work’. We have said that trade union workers in this context must be understood as people who have a «approved certificate». We also see that the number of subjects that become their own subject expands. Therefore, it is also important that one is concerned with developing offers to other groups that have traditionally not had technical vocational schools. When we clarify that in the setting, we're assuming that the department will follow up as well. As I said, it's important to get this in place legally. The major changes may not be, but the clarifications made by the Committee are important clarifications, which I hope the county councils will take seriously and follow up by establishing offers, both their own and through cooperation with others. The only thing that we haven't been able to clean up, and that I think is the pick, is the economic bit -- that we haven't put in any incentive, any carrots, to the county councils, so that establishing that kind of offer would also provide some financial support from the state. I hope that we can come back to that in the context of the competence reform and the millions put there.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-21-lower.ana.ud1229e190	The most joyful thing about today's debate is that all parties so clearly underline the right of existence for technical vocational school. In fact, this school has been a bit voiced by those who wanted to streamline the Norwegian education system earlier in the 1990s. Now all the parties have recognised that technical colleges have absolute place in Education-Norway. The rapporteur explained well what the Committee agreed on, so I shall not spend time repeating it, as several others have also come up with. The left of course supports what has been said. The types of education to be provided by the country must be based on the needs of the population for education and the needs of society for competence. For many, technical colleges have been an alternative to higher education and for some a springboard to take higher education, and have thus been very important to many people in this country. Although the number of applicants has declined in recent years, society needs this type of school and the skills given there, especially now that individuals and businesses are increasingly in need of professional replenishment and leadership training at different levels, with which more people have been involved. I would particularly like to highlight the importance that technical colleges have had and should have in training managers for shipping. It is a very important industry for Norway, and it is important to get good professionals and good managers in that type of industry. Odelstingen is today to adopt a temporary law pending the Berg Committee, which investigates the legal link between secondary and higher education provision. The law shall ensure that the offer of technical vocational schools is maintained until these intermediate schools have found their place in the legal system. But I would like to stress, as Mr Rikvam also did, that the department must follow developments closely. Now we have a law in place, but it is also important to follow the law and follow up the county councils in the work they have to do. The left is also pleased that the Council of State has started work to secure these schools in general — now I am talking about the middle-level schools. In many ways they have been hidden away and forgotten after reform 94, but they clearly have their justification differently. Norway needs a diversity of educational services that meet the individual’s needs for education and society’s needs for skills.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-21-lower.ana.ud1229e205	The representative of Wage spoke of this school battle as being the victim of the ‘reform effort’ in the Labour Party, and Helene Falch Fladmark just said that a reason was the ‘to streamline’ education system. Yes, in the Labour Party, we are very proud of the reforms we have been through over the last few years. Technical colleges are said to – we have never said anything else – and then it is not unreasonable to expect the sitting government to be able to submit proposals that will give you a safe position in the future. I have been among those who have been concerned about technical disciplines before this committee period, among others. in conjunction with the Council of State. I hope and believe that the cause is in good hands, but it's urgent. Then I hope that it is allowed to say a little more about the contents of the school team, for which I am strongly involved with some other burns. These schools have had a kind of lack of security from year to year, leading to fewer seekers and some kind of confusion of skills due to unsafe jobs. Missing laws or foundations have led to their being down-priorities, partly built-in, of the individual county council, and these two things hang together and create a vicious circle. We need technical disciplines like school battles. It provides, as many have said, specialised provision of intermediate/leader training and professional further qualification for adult skilled workers. This gives the trade union workers the opportunity to supplement their practical and theoretical knowledge for, for example: becoming a lessor or intermediary. It gives opportunities to study skills for those who want to take higher education. Although this will not be necessary at all, it may be a part of the desire to have the professional security it provides when they are going to start higher education. The workplace is asking for my experience of the skills given by the technical disciplines. Elevar asks for study places — or at least has done so when the supply has been stable and good. I believe that the working life benefits from engineers with a practical professional background in the form of a letter. It may be useful to build up a practical competence, so that we get intermediaries and leaders with a letter at the bottom and engineers with diplomas and technical colleges taking higher education or university education. Then we get engineers and civil engineers who can also handle masonry spades and hammers. We have some, but other countries, for example. Germany, has many, and I think we should facilitate more. During a visit to the Business Committee at Raufoss Ammunition factories, it was clear that there was in the frontier country between practical knowledge and theoretical knowledge and cooperation between them that product development and innovation took place, and technical disciplines actually provide such a combination. In addition, I think that technical colleges provide a possibility for lifelong learning that receive other education. One can start with a diploma, then take a technical college, and – if you want – later build on for higher education. There's something we talk a lot about, and that's important in the future. Like the others who have spoken today, I am pleased with temporary legislation. But there's something more urgent going on, and it's important that technical colleges get a place between the continuing schools and higher education that doesn't make it possible to ignore or deprioritize it. One might think of a similar idea with the Norwegian network, i.e. a cooperation and division of labour between the individual technical disciplines to ensure the health of the whole country, so that they do not become victims of sparse state-owned assessments. We need such training for as long as both working life wants such a workforce and there is a market for interested candidates. When it comes to student funding, a Roman language decision is being taken today not to consider how many years have gone to higher education in order to receive funding for this school. You must be correct in a lifelong learning perspective. Because if one has gone four or five years to college, one should not be prevented from going to technical colleges later in life. I hope I get there quickly. It is important that there is a place before the announcement of the next school year, so that those who might want to apply know that they do not meet the problem at least, because most people depend on funding for education. Finally, I just want the Council of State to close down with both progress and results. We need this school battle to come into place.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-21-lower.ana.ud1229e224	I have listened to the debate with great interest – a very focused and concrete debate with a very clear commitment to a school battle that has appeared in a grey zone. It's interesting to see that things that you don't see clearly in a reform period, need corrections when you get to try it in practice, and that's what I think today's a mass accumulation is pushing us in the department for. I thought it was constructive and good work on the part of Stortinget. On 15 June 1998 the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg adopted such a decision: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for provisional technical school law with a view to maintaining the continuity and quality of practical and technical intermediate education pending clarification of the status and financial basis of this type of school.’ The legislative proposal is a follow-up to this Decision. The Ministry intends that this law be superseded by final rules on the basis of proposals from the Berg Committee. This will assess the need for different types of training provision that can be defined as continuing training or higher education at present. Technical colleges, as we have said before today, are particularly mentioned in the mandate for the selection, which has a deadline of 1 March 2000. I have noticed that the committee agrees that significant clarifications for the school team must wait until this selection is completed. It shall apply, inter alia: the question of whether there is still a law applicable to the school type and the financing. So today, technical colleges are not regulated by law. Today, the schools generally follow the rules that apply to continuing schooling. The proposal now corresponds substantially to the rules that have been used in technical disciplines, but the department will now have a clear place to live. to lay down national targets for the school team, on curriculum, admission, assessment and complaint of assessment. Hopefully, this will not only ensure the formal basis for the operation, but also help to strengthen the actual basis of this school team. I have noticed that the Committee proposes a different wording in Section 2, different from that proposed in the proposal. Until now, technical colleges have been taken into account in the scope of the requirement laid down for the county. A change in this now will lead to less pressure on county councils to maintain places in technical disciplines. I therefore assume that the Committee's proposals to Section 2 require technical disciplines to continue to be part of the basis of calculation for the municipal scope, but that we must also ensure this by regulation, so that the developments we have seen over the last few years will not continue. I have also noticed that the committee believes it is important that technical disciplines of their own are not wiped out, especially in the high schools are co-located with further education. However, the Committee proposes that there should be common school regulations, joint school selection and joint student councils with a secondary school. In such cases, it must be approved by the Ministry. I take note of this. I am pleased that the committee has essentially joined the legislative proposal from the Government, and that the responsibility for technical discipline is still being placed with the county council, until the more extensive distribution from the Berg Committee is presented. I see this bill together with the vote and the debate here today as a good step forward for the technical sphere. I have followed the whole debate carefully. The Reikvam’s indication relative to the intake is important. It is quite clear that it was too restrictive in some places. I'm going to follow this up, after the call that's come, so that there's no repetition of it. I have also noticed the committee setting when it comes to student finance. I believe, therefore, that what is happening in Stortinget today is useful for Education-Noreg.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-21-lower.ana.ud1229e248	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-21-lower.ana.ud1229e251	In the light of the statements made by the Council of State, I feel the need to comment on something he said about the change in the second paragraph of Section 2, that the Committee has deviated from the original wording and uses a wording stating that national targets can be specified. This does not mean less pressure on county councils, rather on the contrary. We know that this with the scope regulation has not worked well enough. It's quite obvious, and as I see it, it would be a very good press release to the county municipalities if the department gave regulations on national targets, including capacity, priorities, etc. For this reason, my question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State – as we have opened up the possibility of such regulations, and not that it should – need to lay down rules on national targets? It will be important how the Council of State assesses it. If he considers that there is a need and that he will believe that there will be regulations in this area, it may be the most important means of pressuring the county councils, and it will be important to put them into practice. So a little bit about a little bit more that goes into the economy. In the State budget, a proposal has been made for the use of $180 million. kr in the context of the competence reform. None of these funds has been committed to technical technical colleges, despite the fact that technical colleges are an important provision of continuing education and training. Does the Council of State believe that, in the future, it may be appropriate to link a part of what is happening at technical colleges, to the reform of competences and also to use the funds that are being used in that reform, in technical colleges, to give the county councils this small carrot, this small incentive, to give priority to study places in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-21-lower.ana.ud1229e264	I have also perceived that the change that has come is a reinforcement, but I think it would be foolish to justify the reinforcement saying that the scope rule does not apply until we have found a new way of using the regulation. We have notice that we will come back to Stortinget with the scope directive and give her a new chance. I agree with the representative of Reikvam that the regulation has not worked well enough, but there are many reasons for this. One reason is that state politicians in the school sector have not understood that there is, in fact, a tool that may in some way be important to resist the pressure on the school sector. Another reason is that I have not handled that regulation as strictly as I think I should have done from the first day, to ensure the force that that regulation actually had. That's what I want to express. However, I do not think there is any inconvenience between the representative Rikvam and me, because I understand that there is a strengthening here. I would like to inform you here and now that we are going to conduct a survey, and I am prepared to use the authority I have received from Stortinget to ensure that the developments that have taken place so far are not continuing. So a little bit about the skills reform in relation to technical colleges. It is quite right that there is nothing specific here when it comes to technical disciplines, but when it comes to competence development programmes, which are to be developed in cooperation between the parties and the educational institutions, it is clear that technical disciplines could be one of those entering into such a three-way cooperation that we imagine that it should be between the parties and an educational institution. In such a context, technical colleges are well owned, and I hope they become active participants in that work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-21-lower.ana.ud1229e272	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-21-lower.ana.ud1229e275	The Chairman of the Committee, Grete Knudsen, and other representatives, have, in today's debate, been concerned that the selection work to be carried out should not be pre-empted. Nor does it want the Progress Party. We refer to our proposal No. 1, where we ask for an assessment of a model. I assume that there will be a discussion and work in the department after the sample work to be done, and that different methods of financing this type of school will then be considered. The representative Grete Knudsen made a very good and creative proposal which I think should also be considered, a model of partnership. It sounds like a very good idea, which you should look at more closely. So very briefly to the representative Inge Wohnning: the Progress Party feels no need to reword proposal No. 1 for a transmission proposal, inter alia: because of the massive views of the hearing bodies, of the Association of Norwegian Civil Engineers, the Association of Management and Technology, the National Association of Schools and the LO, which have been committed to the state acquisition of the technical colleges.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-21-lower.ana.ud1229e284	I have some problems seeing the connection between the premise and the conclusion in the last article. The representative, Mr Knudsen, stressed that the party did not make any proposals on the substance of the matter, and he then explained that it was precisely what these hearing bodies had requested that the substance of the matter be assessed. If the proposal is a proposal asking for an evaluation, it is quite pointless to ask for voting on such a proposal. Had it been a proposal that was based on the reality of the matter, it would have been meaningful, but there is no point in voting for a proposal that asks the Government to consider something that the Government has to consider in any case when coming back with a proposal for a permanent law. The representative, Ausdal Starrfelt, declared that the Workers' Party is proud of the educational reforms that the party has carried out. There's probably no one in this room who's been in doubt for a moment that you are. It is perhaps where the problem lies that there has been so much achievement in the structural reforms that one rarely takes time to take a look at the terrain, because one is so convinced that the map is perfect. That's why I said I was glad to have agreed this time to take more account of the terrain than of the map. In this context, let me also draw a little attention to what the Council of State said about whether it would be desirable in the future to have a separate law for this school battle, or whether to solve the anchoring problem in another way. At my discretion, there will be a need for a separate law, and I think that technical college illustrates the problems of the system enforcement that have followed, the desire to embrace as far as possible in the legislation of one common training law for everything that is up to and including college, and then one common law that will cover all that is on top of it. I think we may have come to a time when we have to ask ourselves the question of whether it is a sensible form of legislation to try to embrace such diversity in two sets of uniform rules. Let me finally exemplify it with the question that the Council of State also mentioned so far, namely the design of Sections 7 and 8, where the Progress Party and the Right have said that we will vote against the last point that adds that there can be a common selection for the students in secondary school and the students in technical college. It illustrates exactly the same problem as in the Law on Higher Education, that there should be common governing bodies for all institutions of whatever size and whether they need it or not. At my discretion, this is an important symbolic matter, because if you really think that technical college should have its own identity, and that the students who use this offer should not be put in line with those in higher education or students at colleges and universities, it's the only logical thing that they should also have their own selection. Of course, I see the practical problem where there is co-location, and that the school administration at that high school feels it is more convenient and more practical to have a common pupil board. But at my discretion, the consideration of the students at technical colleges should outweigh the consideration of the convenience and practice of the school management. That is why we intend to vote against this. So just one last little question to the Council of State. He did not comment on the design of the purpose paragraph, § 1. It is therefore tempting to ask the Council of State what idea he has behind the wording ‘professional and adult workers’.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-21-lower.ana.ud1229e297	I also allowed myself to comment on one point about the joint body, which the representative does not want to pay, and which he wants to vote against. It's very good reasoning that in most cases one can want to create a separate identity for technical colleges and students there, but we also have a lot of examples that both students in both school levels and the instruction based on size and structure actually want one not to do it. They thought that the age mix and the way it's composed are actually fertilizing. Then it's kind of inconsistent with what the representative often says about pay, that one should not be so square in the structure that one does not open up to the kind of possibilities. I want to say that maybe we went a long way from the department's side, but the combination solution that the committee has chosen here is a good way to meet it. In the case of the purpose formulation, it is not necessary to set a limit on the future development of technical disciplines in relation to those which do not belong to what is today considered to be trade union workers. I'd like to say in agreement with the representative, when it comes to one point, that there is no glittering wording here, but it gives a clear statement that there is no delimitation, and I think that is good.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-21-lower.ana.ud1229e304	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-21-lower.ana.ud1229e312	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-21-lower.ana.ud1229e318	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Ulf Erik Knudsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, proposal No. 3, from Inge Wages and salaries on behalf of the Right The President will first refer to the proposals. 1 and 2. Proposal No. 1 reads:‘The Government, as part of the work of a permanent law on technical vocational school, is asking the Government to assess a state acquisition of the funding of the schools.’ 2 reads:‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a financing model for technical colleges based on independent units which receive their income calculated on the basis of the number of students.’ These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-21-lower.ana.ud1229e358	For the second subparagraph, an aberrant proposal, No. 3, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second paragraph of Section 1 shall be replaced by the following: Technical secondary school shall be a continuing training offer which shall provide for professional immersion, competence for further education and management training.’; The Committee shall first vote on the position of Section 1, first paragraph, and then alternately between the second paragraph of the suspension and the proposal of the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-21-lower.ana.ud1229e447	The Progress Party and the Right have notified that they are in breach of Section 7, second paragraph, Section 8, second paragraph, second sentence, and Section 9, third paragraph. These paragraphs and sentences shall first be added to the text, then to the other paragraphs and sentences of Sections 7, 8 and 9.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-21-lower.ana.ud1229e483	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-21-lower.ana.ud1229e490	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-21-lower.ana.ud1229e500	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-21-lower.ana.ud1229e509	There is no record.
