ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e37	The representative of Ingvald Godal, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. The representative of Ansgar Gabrielsen is informed that he is withdrawing the granted permit application from 25 May to 28 May at the latest. – This message is taken into account. Two permit applications are available: from the representative Mr Børge Brende on leave from 25 May to 28 May to take part in a delegation tour to Ukraine from the representative of Mr Leif Helge Kongshaug on welfare leave from 28 May to 2 June On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representatives, for Møre and Romsdal County, Aud Folkestad, and for South-Trundellag County, Michael Momyr, are called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e80	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e85	I suggest Øyvind Korsberg and Per Ove Width.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e90	Øyvind Korsberg and Per Ove Width are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Korsberg and Per Ove Width are unanimously elected as presidents of the current meeting. The representative Mr. Børge Brende will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e95	On behalf of the representative Christopher Stensaker and myself, I would like to propose the withdrawal of orders to the municipality of Trondheim to build chemical treatment plants at Hövringen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e100	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e112	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to one main feature of each group and of the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to 3 lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and after the input of the Council of State. In addition, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the posts allocated will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e121	The issue we are dealing with today is a border control between East and West Toten, which relates to the town of Kolbu. Self things have had a long story, which I don't find right to go into. When it comes to border control matters, it is so that in very many of them, the King of the Council of State can decide them. When this is the case, there is a regulation that applies to 2.5 pst. Vestre Toten's area, which is then proposed to be transferred to Ostre Toten. This will mean that 546 inhabitants will have to change the municipality. This is very small when you know that Western Toten has about 13,000 inhabitants and Eastern Toten has about 15,000 inhabitants. That's why the majority in the committee think this is a matter that the department could have decided. That being said, the majority, the members of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Socialist Left Party, felt that the Department and the State have not done enough to get a proposal that one could have had a bigger deal about, because it is a reality that the municipalities are not the same. There have been some studies pointing in the opposite direction. We are of the opinion that this matter is going to be sent back to the ministry, that a new attempt is being made to find a solution that can bring about greater disintegration among the inhabitants of Kolbu, and can also cause the two municipalities to agree on a natural limit. Let it be said – it means the whole committee: there should be a border regulation in this area, for such limits are today, they are not natural, they are not decent and very little practical. I would like to point out that on 16 October 1997, the Department sent a letter to the County Council in Oppland, where a number of questions were asked – 12 in the number, I believe. The impact on service performance in the area, the problematisation of the relevant boundaries, the status of the Kolbu level work, the work patterns and expansion features of the site were asked for. The majority think that the state here may not have answered these questions thoroughly enough – not on the wrong side, but because of the time aspect, that it was too short to go deeper into these questions and issues. There is also agreement in the municipalities and the people there, at the county and department, and, to a large extent, also among everyone here in the Chamber, that there is a need for border regulation. The majority today would suggest that the cases be sent back to the ministry, and that they take a new round with the implicated parties in consultation with the county council. The Progress Party, Right and SV think that it might be natural that the result that one then comes up with is presented to a referendum in the circle and the parties it's in, so that one can get a multiple on one side or another that gives a signal. That's why we thought it natural that the department would add up such a crowd, but that doesn't mean so much to the majority. The majority indicate that the matter will be referred back to the Department of Justice. With that, I recommend the Stortinget to make a decision in line with the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e140	The government has promoted a proposal to change the border between the municipality of East Toten and the municipality of West Toten, so that the districts of Smågarda and Kolbu, which constitute the part of the Moen school located in the municipality of West Toten, are transferred to the municipality of East Toten. This is a border regulation affecting about 550 people. The population of the two municipalities, Vestre Toten and Ostre Toten, is approx. 12,000 and 14,000. In other words, there are two even-sized municipalities we're dealing with when it comes to population numbers. As in very many border adjustment cases, there is no consensus between the municipalities concerned. The Eastern Toten municipality wants such border regulation, while the Western Toten municipality does not want the proposed border regulation. The government has therefore chosen to send the case to Stortinget for a decision. Now it is not the case that the government believes this is a matter that should be clearly sent to Stortinget, and that the government itself could not have decided. In a letter to the Committee dated 29 April 1999, the Council of State writes that this is a matter which lies in a ‘grey zone’ in order to be regarded as a matter of ‘no less scale’ and is thus determined by the Stortinget. The Council of State believes that regulation has consequences for a relatively large number of people, approximately 550, but this still represents a relatively small proportion of the total population of the municipalities concerned. And geographically, it's also a small area. In other words, the Council of State argues that this is a relatively minor change, which is thus a matter of decision in the ministry. A majority of the committee, including the members of the Workers' Party, also believes that this is a matter that the Government could have decided, but still ends up in the Stortinget. That should be unnecessary. This is an old case. Therefore, the Workers' Party believes that it should have been time to investigate the matter properly. It's not. It seems that this has become an urgent matter just before the election. Nor has it been done enough by the Government to find a solution that both parties are satisfied with. Many questions swirl in the air and have not found their solution. Border adjustments are not what you do with every two years. Therefore, it has to be done properly when a change is first to occur. The Working Party agrees that there is a need for a border adjustment at the Kolbu Centre. And during the consultations with the relevant action groups, it was also agreed that there is a need for a border adjustment, but that the proposal that the Government has made does not solve the problems that are in the vicinity of Kolbu. That both action groups believe that there is a need for adjustments should be an excellent starting point for the Government to come up with a solution that both municipalities accept as reasonable and forward-looking and that they can live with. Therefore, the Workers' Party is not in doubt that this is a matter that the Government can decide. Here it's just about will. The Workers' Party supports the majority vote on returning the case to the Government for a new examination and decision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e162	The Christian People's Party and the Central Party believe that this is a matter of limited scope, and I have the sense to the extent of the conclusion that the previous speaker had, that this is a matter that the ministry should be able to decide. However, we have a proposal that we should adopt the recommendation that Stortinget received from the department. The background for this is that we think that time has come to cut through and take a decision. This district has long been plagued by emotional struggles and conflicts to resolve, and there is a great many who want the solution that the Government has put up in its proposal for the Storting. Therefore, these two parties believe that we should have taken a decision today and put this battle dead. In the department's proposal, it is also taken into account that the county council should have the best representations to assess in detail how the boundaries will go in the disputed area around 'Small Guard', but that the redistribution between East and West Toten should be essentially OK. These municipalities, through a long process, have tried to become a few, but they have not been able to do so, and it is burdensome for a district to have such a dispute for a long time. It is always possible to extend such a process by asking for more details, more details, and more answers. But I don't think it's very useful to do something special than what's already done. In our opinion, the facts are clear enough to make a decision so that this neighbourhood in Kolbu can be connected to the Eastern Toten municipality in a more natural way. From this point of view, the Central Party and the Christian People's Party propose that we support the Government's proposal, and I take up with this the minority's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e175	Mr Gedrem has put forward the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e178	The kind of things that we're talking about here are always hard. Border regulation turns emotions on different sides, and it is difficult to arrive at solutions that are agreed upon. I note that a unanimous committee believes it is necessary to make a border regulation in this case. I also register that the municipal committee is cancelling to send the matter back to the department for a new examination and decision. I take note of this and will, of course, do what the committee asks for. However, I would like to add some comments to the matter. I therefore note that the majority agree that the regulation of the boundaries of the area in question is necessary. In my view, there is sufficient basis for a decision on a forward-looking and appropriate border. In fact, the case dates back to 1995, and has gone back and forth many rounds between the parties involved without it being possible to reach an agreement on a solution, as it will often be in this type of case. The assessment of the issue of whether a border regulation should be carried out depends on an overall assessment. Public opinion is one of several factors that obviously need to be given a strong emphasis, but also geographical and communication issues must weigh heavily. This type of assessment is at the heart of the Ministry's proposal. I also take note that the Committee believes that more work should be done to find a solution that both the municipalities concerned can agree on. The Ministry will therefore, in cooperation with the county councils and municipalities, see what opportunities are available to arrive at a good and forward-looking solution, and will take a decision on the matter in the light of the Committee's wishes. As the Committee rightly points out, this is a matter that can be decided by the Ministry. But precisely because border controls are not something you operate with every two years, precisely because in these kinds of cases it is often difficult to reach agreement, and precisely because it is important to have the best possible anchoring, the ministry, after an overall assessment, chose to ask the Stortingen to settle the matter. But when Stortinget wants the department to decide the matter, we will of course comply with it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e191	The speakers who have the floor hereafter shall have a speaking time of three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e194	I was born in the East Toten, and a few days old I was driven through Kolbu to the West Toten, where I grew up, and where I live today. At the time, Kolbu was his own municipality. Some years later, the municipality was divided between East and West Toten, and the rapporteurs in the municipalities took part in the proceedings. Normally, there was division by farm number on land estates and belonging to church grounds as a reason for belonging in each municipality. In the approximately 40 years that have passed, there have been built houses, roads and a fine intercommunal school that replaces two schools that were in each of their municipalities. There is a cooperation agreement on Moen school. It is administered by the municipality where the school is located, Vestre Toten, while expenditure is divided by the number of children in each municipality. It is also part of the agreement that none of the municipalities can make circuit regulations that cause the school to lose its full distribution. This is a good starting point, and it should have been seen as an opportunity to process the development of the site of Kolbu. Then there might have been no border dispute today. I have received a lot of enquiries on the occasion of the case from people who do not want to be forced to move, from people who stress that they are east-facing or west-facing, from people who want a border change, from people who do not want it at all, and from people who want a community merger. Very many people believe that the Toten should be one municipality. When Kjell Opseth was the municipal minister, he proposed an investigation into this. Vestre Toten said yes thank you, while Oostre Toten said no. It is not strange that two municipalities have different opinions on such questions, but an investigation would at least have answered some of the questions we have today. Surely there is at least more to be done in order to find a solution with which to live in peace and tolerance. I am therefore pleased with the comments made by the majority of the Committee on current impact assessments that have not been carried out and that are the basis for further investigations. Conflicts should not be resolved with the creation of new conflicts, but should seek solutions that can be lived with for all. In that case, thorough impact assessments must be carried out and processes initiated in which people have a real impact on the outcome. The county council has not been able to do this with the time aspect that the current government has proposed in this case. Two action groups with different opinions have been in swing, and Eastern research has carried out a thorough study that shows something different from the one set up by the first action group and on which the department has based its decision-making. The political parties have nominated for the autumn elections, and in the evening post here today we could read that the Kolbu area was well represented on the lists in the West Toten, with six from the area on the list of the Centre Party and three on the list of the Workers' Party. These are very active in their municipal parties. I hope that a process work and investigations will now be started that will enable us to continue to live in peace and permissiveness on the death.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e209	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3349]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e223	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to one main feature of each group and of the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose to allow for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and after the submissions of the Council of State. In addition, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the posts allocated will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e232	This is a matter of frontier regulation between Sande and Vanylven municipalities in More and Romesdal. Now, the spokesman for the case is in the minority and is behind the minority's proposal, and I want to focus most on doing the right thing for the minority's comments and our proposal. The plural, which consists of Right, Workers' Party and SV, will send the case back to the Department for a new round. It is not directly said that one would like to go back to the Storing for a decision. But I'm assuming that the multiples themselves will argue for their point of view. The Progress Party and I are of the opinion that the Ministry could also have decided this from a variety of points of view. Although the area proposed for the transfer might seem large, 33 pst. of the area of the Sande municipality, there are not so many people to move. One must be aware of when border controls and the creation of municipalities are ‘in these hard days’ – to put it that way – there were other lines of communication and other natural municipal boundaries than what is natural today. It means that one should have seen the border controls in other municipalities, so that Kommune-Noreg could be divided into something more reasonable and practical than it is today. When it comes to the part of the Sande municipality that wants a different border, Åram krins, it's the only krin in the Sande municipality that's on the mainland. There have been strong ties between the municipality of Åram Krins and Vanylven and the people who live in the municipality of Vanylven. With the communications and the movement pattern we have today, at least I see it so that it is quite natural that Åram Krins is added to the municipality of Vanylven. That's what the people of Åram want. On March 16, 1988, a referendum was held, and about two thirds – it is allowed to round – of the people of Åram krins wanted Vanylven municipality to be added in the future instead of belonging to the Sande municipality. That is also the advice given by the county. I understand that the Sande municipality is not united in this regulation, but one should be aware that the result of the vote in the Sande municipality government on the day they decided this – after the referendum was held – showed 19 voices for and 10 against, and that it is said that there were more than those who belong to the Åram krins in the Sande municipality government, who voted that Åram should be allowed to move to Vanylven. At that time, we thought it should be quite right to follow the people's unity, and it has been said in the Stortinget before that one should not carry out municipal conjugations – and I would like to add border controls – unless the people have been given their views on the matter through a referendum. Here we have a People's Remedy. Someone will of course discuss on what kind of basis this popular vote was held. One should then be aware that it was the political leadership in the Sande municipality that decided that the referendum would be held at that time. It was said in the local government and also decided that one had to respect and pay very much attention to the result – it was also said from the spokesman’s side – especially if the voices for a border regulation passed 55 pst. And then of course, you can discuss if you had a different result when you said it, than what was the result. One should also be aware that the adviser, in its impact assessment for the Sande municipality, says: ‘With today’s organisation there seemed to be no financial operational disadvantages in border regulation.’ This means that for the Sande municipality this will not have economic consequences. So, of course, it would be desirable to see this limit regulation in a larger context. But these municipalities have said no, and we don't think it's right to press another impact statement as long as they don't want it. We have said that we want voluntary municipal mergers and voluntary border regulation. And in this case, if you were to see this boundary regulation in a larger context, we also have to be aware that the municipality of Vanylven is a border municipality of Sogn and Fjordane County, and that then it would be natural to also look at the county border. Then we immediately have a very big thing, as I see it. That's why it's getting a little exciting to hear about the debate maybe clarifying whether the majority think the ministry can decide this matter, and whether the ministry is willing to make a decision to the extent. With the background that's mentioned here -- here's a round of rounds, here's what we've been talking about -- I thought this case is now starting to get a decision, preferably today, but at least as fast as possible afterwards. Then a few things can be settled in good time before the election in the fall, so that they can be kept in line with what is desired by the people in the city of Åram, that the krins are added to the municipality of Vanylven, and that they can take part in the elections there; they have set up lists and arrange well in that way. Finally, in these words, I just want to wait for the signals from the plural, and with this, I want to promote the minority proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, which are included on page 5 of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e259	Mr Solholm put forward the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e262	The government suggests in St.prp. No 44 to change the municipal border between Sande and Vanylven municipalities in the More and Romesdal counties, as the case-in-law rapporteur has explained. In this case, the municipalities do not agree on the border regulation. Community mergers are not easy, but border regulations are not always easy either. It might not be so strange, because here it's about belonging to the individual, which we have to pay attention to, and consideration has to be balanced against each other. In addition, it cannot be that because one group no longer likes its municipality because of a case or two, it is only to move over to the neighbouring municipality. Now it's not so persistent that the grass is so much greener on the other side of the fence. One must also weigh and assess the consequences for what remains of a municipality that loses an area and part of the population, and weigh it against any benefits of border regulation. State Council Enoksen writes in a letter to the Committee on 6 May this year that he believes that the regulation is not minor and therefore has to be decided by Stortinget. Now this case, like so many others, has a history. Former Councillor Queseth Haarstad was at least in doubt whether this was a matter that should be sent to the Stortinget. The Labour Party was consulted on the matter, and our advice was that this was a matter that the Government could decide. Nevertheless, the government chose to send the matter to Stortinget. The new Council of State has a different view, and believes that there is no doubt that this matter is so large that it has to be decided in this Chamber. The Labour Party is surprised that the matter was not decided by the Ministry, especially given that the Ministry had to feel that this was an urgent matter for the autumn elections, lists in the individual municipalities, etc. Or is this an example of a refusal of decision? The working party considers it natural that the municipal boundaries are subject to assessment, but then the work to be done must also be done properly. We want a quick handling of the matter, and maintain our previous position that this is a regulation that can and should be decided by the Government, and we go in to send the matter back to the Government for a new treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e277	Let's first point out that this case is not of any minor importance. It has also confirmed the ministry in its second assessment. In consultation, this case poses greater challenges than a municipal merger case. In this setting, we have underlined the weakness by not hearing adjacent circuits to the circuit of the adjustment cases. This is essential here, inter alia. based on the proposed new frontier, a natural future secondary school circle will be split. Subsidiary, the proposed regulation will be able to send the island people in the area on long and uncomfortable journeys. When the proposition correctly underlined the need for an overall assessment, the one-sided focus on referendum in the district of Åram is equivalent to a weakening. It is little future-oriented to replace one border problem with a new border problem. That's why we're proposing, like the county council in More and Romesdal, to see this in a larger context. We welcome changes in the municipal structure in Norway, but making a small municipality even less is reasonably pointless. Here we actually agree with SV that bit for bit-changes that appear as the beginning of the end of a municipality calls for simultaneous alternatives. If we were to create a new beneficiary of regional subsidies, developments have gone wrong. Our opinion is that a methodically correct referendum procedure would show the counterparts of the focused outcome of the Åram circuit, thus making the ministry's proposal obsolete. However, we have chosen to sign in to the majority, with return as a safe alternative pending future review. It is taken for granted that this matter comes to Stortinget again based on the clear response of the Council of State, and in the light of this, we have given the setting. If we would then link some comments to the rapporteur's statement, where he interpreted signals from the local government in Sande before the referendum, but is willing to ignore the conclusion of the same local government after the referendum, then we think it is a little remarkable. It was said by the case rapporteur that more than the people elected by the district of Åram must have voted in favour of this limit adjustment. It is not even demonstrated that the majority of the elected members of the People's Party in the district of Åram have voted in favour of this limit adjustment. That is why we are looking forward to a new treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e290	The Labour Party representative, Signe Eye, accused the Government of refusing a decision, since it has sent this matter to the Stortinget. As far as I can see, it was quite right, even though the Government recommended that the Åram circuit in the Sande municipality should be transferred to Vanylven. According to Section 1 of the Local Government Division Act, the case is to be referred to Stortinget if the case is of greater scope – the term “major” is very subjective – but it also states that if the municipalities disagree, the case is to be submitted to Stortinget. So I think it is quite clear that this matter should be brought before Stortinget. Now it's not going to be decided here. The centre party sees that no municipality should have its borders changed – or be merged – against the public opinion. But how we measure the public opinion is not that simple either. We see that Kommune-Norge has largely got its limits based on communication relations. With new developments and better communication, it may not be so of course anymore where the municipal borders go. Before that, the waterway was the way to travel. Today we've got better communications, so a ferry connection doesn't have to mean a separation, it might as well be a connection. At the same time, a long mainland area and a mountain back are no longer a barrier. In this way, we stand a lot freer with regard to how the municipalities manage their borders. That's why it's natural for you to look at where there are people applying for services, and most of all at how people want it. When the Central Party has chosen to agree with the minority's proposal to add Åram krins to Vanylven, we have the assumption that no municipalities will suffer. There has been a referendum in Åram, and we have great respect for it. So we find that we can go in so that Åram is added to Vanylven. But, as we clearly say in the comments, it must not lead to some unnecessary loss for the True Municipality, which is the smallest of these, which is now becoming even smaller. The economic compensation seems to be good, but the economy isn't everything here. We have to make sure that Sande has previously arranged according to the fact that Åram is part of their municipality. They've spent between 15 and 16 million. kr to build a waterworks on Åram, which represents 33 pst. of their land area. Here they have the impact field for this waterworks. They have had a negative population development both in Quamsøy and Sandsøy, which may lead to the drop-out of high school here. The natural thing is that the secondary school is located in Åram – where it is the shortest way. In a border regulation, it might look like Sande is coming out very badly. And the prerequisite for recommending this is that these relationships should be taken into account, and that they should not be lost. In the previous case, it was shown that two municipalities use the same high school. It is not against – as I understand it – the views of the Labour Party, and I hope that it is not against the view of the majority that this can apply to Vanylven and Sande. I see it as natural that Sande gets to use Åram high school. Otherwise, I refer you to the rapporteur's statement. We therefore support the proposals of the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e307	SV supports the majority position and believes that this is not a minor regulation. The way you can evaluate it, you have to have a big connection with the size of the municipalities we're talking about, the size of the area, the size of the population, and what kind of impact this will have on the whole, especially for the municipality that loses area and population. From that point of view, we regard this as a major frontier regulation, and we therefore believe that it is the Stortinget that should decide it. There will always be border problems, no matter where you draw the boundaries. Sometimes the boundaries could be completely natural, so there would be no conflict, but most of the places would. Some people will always live near a border and feel that they have a part of their services in one municipality and perhaps their labour market in another municipality, so that you will have an interest in moving the border. One of the problems that then arises is how to decide this boundary division, who to decide, and who to hear. There's a lot of emphasis on public opinion, and they've tried to measure it. But then you can ask yourself who it is you should ask. Should you just ask those who want to move or want to move on? Or would it also be right to ask some of the rest of the population, who actually like a loss in many ways? There may be considerable grounds for emphasising what those who make such a requirement for border regulation have to think. However, the consequences for the rest municipality and the rest population must also be taken into account. The municipal and county divisions are not just about services – they are related, of course, and history – but they are also an arena for democracy, for the distribution of duties and benefits, and it is an arena for the development of community and solidarity at the local level. The disappearance of a large proportion of the municipality may have quite significant policy implications. That's why it might be right to ask other parts of the population than the exact ones involved. SV will use such an interpretation when interpreting what the Stortinget has said about who it is to be heard in local referendums in such cases. We believe that it is the municipality or county that loses area or population, which should decide who it is to be heard in the local, advisory referendums. And then it can be that way when it comes to such large areas and such a large part of the population as it does in this case, that more than exactly those who live on the requested area should be heard. In the case of the Sande municipality, there is little doubt that the proposed border regulation will have consequences for the population of Kvamsøy and Sandsøy, as the previous speaker pointed out. Nor does SV object to the use of intercommunal measures, e.g. inter-municipal schools. On the contrary, we think it might be a good solution. But we think it is necessary for the entire population to be heard and to have an opportunity to comment on the matter. We are also, as I said, afraid that a regulation like this, which seems to be special, becomes a bit of bit of bit regulation, where you eat small pieces of a municipality, which becomes very small and little robust – it is very inappropriate. If it is that large sections of a municipality will disappear, we believe that it would be right to make an overall assessment, look at the whole area and see if there can be other solutions that do not make one municipality very small and are left with a very small area and a very small population, and there are additional problems. We want the matter sent back to the Government. We will go against the re-regulation that has now been proposed. The SV's opinion is that the case must be returned to the Stortingen for decision if the Government wishes a border regulation of the same size. We believe that the size of the case indicates that the Storting should make that decision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e324	As you know, the left is not represented in the municipal committee. The comments of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party state that these parties find this matter difficult. I think that is a mature and honest remark. Most border regulation issues should be difficult because border regulation cannot be carried out solely on the basis of geography and maps. Those who take their stand on such a basis forget that a municipality is a community, it is an area of interaction, solutions with regard to the provision of joint services and the development of solidarity and good spirit at the local level. In this case, the municipal council in Sande opposes the demarcation of Åram, and the county council opposes it. Vanylven municipality, who gets the new residents, says yes, and the county states yes. The county council represents the elected regional level and the regional folklore, and the county does not consider it right to make such a border regulation now. This is of great importance to my position, and I am listening to the signals coming from there. This is because one has to look at the area in a wider context when border regulation is to be carried out, and what consequences this has for the rest of the Sande municipality. So for a referendum in a circle or built in a municipality and the emphasis of it. If 63 pst. in a built for, there is no overwhelming upsurge. So if we break it down to a fraction, it's three people who are in favour, and two people who are opposed, if we take a group of five people. I also want to be a little bit of a principle when it comes to so-called community referendums. A municipality is a unit or a community. If one takes out part of that unit and makes a referendum there, it might have different consequences for the other parts. For example, if a municipality centre is close to another municipality, but has some remote branches with perhaps expensive infrastructure and is located up to another municipality, it is quite unreasonable that what the majority of the municipality centre is in favour of in terms of switching to the neighbouring municipality should be taken into account without looking at the consequences for the other communities. As mentioned, a municipality is a unit, a community, and we need to have a principle approach to so-called building people's votes. But for all things, we have to take them into account, but we who have to make decisions also have to consider the whole. That is why I agree with the views expressed here by Mr SV and Mr Andersen. We must always ask the question: who is to be asked when referendums are to be held on a matter? I also point out that in Åram in the municipality of Sande there is a municipal waterworks and also a secondary school, so it is not a negligible municipal infrastructure located there. It's not a small border regulation either. Losing one third of the area of a municipality is not small. Now it gets right enough consequences just for 13 pst. by the population, I also mention it – in the name of justice. But for a small municipality, losing even the smallest pieces is a loss, and it will have consequences. Therefore, this matter is not a small border regulation, and I agree – and the Left agrees – that the matter must be returned to the Government in order to investigate more thoroughly the consequences for the other areas of the Sande municipality. But it is also a matter of such magnitude that the case must return to the Stortinget for decision if the government's proposal is still that the district of Åram should be transferred to the municipality of Vanylven. Otherwise, I refer to the comment on the Socialist Left in this matter, which coincides with the view of the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e343	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e346	I wonder a little bit that the party that has fought with the Advance Party about being the People's East Party in this country will not take on such a clear referendum as in this case. The representative, Kongshaug, said that it was unnatural for some people to decide something that would have different consequences for others. But here it applies to the natural part of a municipality. And I assume that Kongshaug's representative is well-known in More and Romsdal County, and knows where Åram Krons is, and knows that this is a part of the mainland and a natural part of a municipality other than Sande. Then I am amazed that he saw aside such a clear folklore in Áram krins – they vote for themselves. Now Kongshaug is trying to turn this popular vote into three out of five. Obviously, it's closer to two out of three in that way. And by a crowd with such a clear plurality as 63 pst. versus 37 pst. I wonder a little, I must say, that the party that has stood up as a champion of popularism, local democracy, the principle of proximity, etc., now merges with SV, in the form of an observation, here from this pulpit. I also wonder that the Left is not willing to listen more to the people of the Turks than they do.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e354	First, I'll be allowed to stress that when I talked about referendums in a community or district, I underlined the importance of seeing the principle in it. And by that I meant, as I said, that the principle is, who is to be asked in the matter? It's okay here, there were people in the district of Åram. But also: What are the consequences for the others in the municipality? I mentioned the consequences for the True Municipality. These are the assessments that it is important to make and that the representative Lodve Solholm here seems not to take into account. Otherwise, I agree with Lodve Solholm that one should pay attention to the local signals coming. But then we must not forget that the local government, which is a local elected body, and the municipality of More and Romesdal, which is a regionally elected body, are of the opposite opinion. That's the whole thing that we have to look at. Then there was a little math discussion here. There was a claim from Lodve Solholm that there are nearly two out of three out of five. No, of course not. 63 pst. is close to 60 pst. So it's going to be three out of five, than sixty-seven, which is two out of three. But there's going to be more of a theoretical teacher's debate, so we're going to refrain from a further debate on this in Stortinget, because that's not what this is about.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e363	When you're going to take the principle and ask questions about who it is that is to be asked, wouldn't it be natural to ask people in the county of Åram krins? And they've said a clear yes! It would be unnatural to ask questions to the Witch like this. But the fact, the right-wing representative was in the place that I was paying attention to what was said in the local government before the referendum. But I didn't. On 16 March 1998, I stressed the referendum, and the local council decided on 17 December 1998, i.e. half a year later, and I did. Ten representatives in the Sande Municipal Council, and there are more than one from Åram krins – it is true that it is not certain that everyone in Åram krins was there – approved that the people in Åram krins wanted to transfer. And then Kongshaug talks about consequences. The councillor writes that there will be no financial consequences to the organization of the Sande municipality. And if the representative Kongshaug looks at the municipal economics bill for 2000 and looks at the income base in the Sande municipality, it's actually better than in the Vanylven municipality. The county council has agreed to this. Then Kongshaug talks about the county. Yes, the county council! It was the county selection that said this. And the position in the county committee was that this was the county council case. One did not see this case as so big that one time tried to present it to the county council, which would be the natural thing if one were to pay great attention to what the county council in More and Romsdal had to say in this matter. And that was in that period also talking about a greater impact assessment for the whole region.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e372	I will once again be allowed to stress that we need to have a principle approach to referendums and to how much emphasis one should put on a referendum based on the consequences that it gets for others as well. But I agree with Lodve Solholm that it is natural to ask the people of the district of Åram. When he says it's not a large majority, it's a discretionary consideration. It's 63 pst. That's the actual conditions. So the representative Solholm also makes a large number of what the councilman writes. The councilman represents the government, the local government is the elected representatives. He also refers to what the county says. The County Council is also an official, while the County Committee is the regional elected representatives of the county. It is well possible that there is a significant difference in the basic attitude of the representative Solholm and me in terms of the civil service and elected representatives. I choose to put the greatest emphasis on the chosen discretion, as they say here. The representative of Solholm is trying to say that this has been such a small matter in the county council that it was the county committee that made the decision. But the situation is that the county has delegated such matters to the county committee, and the county committee, of course, also represents the popular discretion. I myself sat in the county committee when we spoke out on this matter. It was a thorough and big debate in the matter, and a great commitment. So the decision that was made there is of popular importance.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e381	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e384	The Christian People's Party supports the Government's proposal to transfer Åram to the municipality of Vanylven from 1 January 2000. The background to this clear conclusion is the basis that has been created by the population census carried out in Åram. It gave a clear mandate and expression to a local community, which I respect. An overall assessment also includes that in many ways, Åram has turned against Vanylven, as Åram Krins is on the mainland, and that they are currently also using some of the services provided by this municipality. I guess we also look at the department's transmission to Stortinget as a respect for the Stortinget in a case where there was some doubt as to whether the size should provide the basis for the department itself to decide. This is a case where you can't get a situation where everyone wins and feels satisfied. But I think there's a reason to place a decisive emphasis on the fact that the border is at a congested area, that a pronounced wish from the inhabitants is to be respected, and that the limit is to be justifiable for those who live there. After the debate today, I note that the Central Party and the Christian People's Party support the Government's proposal. I interpret the Workers' Party's contributions in such a way that they want the Council of State to take a new approach to the matter, and that the Council of State, if it so wishes, has the power to decide on this matter. I find that there are three other parties who have asked for the Stortinget to bring this matter back again, and with this interpretation the Zenterpartiet and the Christian People's Party can support this subsidiary.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e402	The Municipal Committee is committed to sending this border control issue back to the Ministry for further consideration. I take note of this, of course. I see that the majority of the committee believes that it is natural that municipal boundaries are subject to assessment. The majority of the Committee also points out that, in the design of municipal boundaries, and hence the size of municipalities, it will be the needs of the population that must be at the centre. I agree with this recital. I am still of the opinion that there is a sufficient basis for taking a decision on this issue, both on the grounds of public opinion and on geographical and communication criteria. The true municipality held a referendum in the district of Åram, where a majority of 62 p.m. the citizens wanted border regulation. The municipality has also carried out an impact assessment for Rest-Sande, which would be made up of the Sande municipality, the municipality's part of Gurskøya, Kvamsøy and Sandsøy. The conclusion was that, as a whole, these areas would neither serve nor lose on border regulation. However, I take note that the majority of the municipal committee does not share the Government's assessment in the proposition. The majority believe that the region should receive a new offer for an overall assessment of the municipal structure. I will make sure that the municipalities of Vanylven, Sande, Herøy, Ulstein and Hareid are offered this. However, I would like to remind you here that such an offer was previously made, and that at the time there were four municipalities that were offered a KICS collaboration. Hareid and Sande said no, Herøy and Ulstein municipalities said yes at the time. I have to be allowed to say that if it is established that you do not agree with all the municipalities that a KICS investigation will have a purpose, I see little reason to go into a new round. In that case, all the municipalities should, in my opinion, agree that this is done. Of course, it will always be a matter of judgement whether a border control case is to be decided by the Ministry or by the Stortinget. In St. pp. No 44, which was approved by the Council of State on 19 March 1999, it appears from the outset that the Ministry considers that the case is not minor and therefore submits it to the Stortinget. It also states that the area proposed for the transfer to the municipality of Vanylven is 33 pst. of the total area of the Sande municipality and having an impact on 13 pst. by the inhabitants of the Sande municipality. This was the background to the department's choice of procedure, but I note that several parties in the room today are of the opinion that this is a matter that can be decided by the department. Of course, it is up to the Stortinget to interpret the scope of a border regulation case, and whether it is the Ministry or the Stortinget to decide a case. I choose to interpret Stortinget in such a way that the department here has an option to decide this matter if it is desirable by the department after a detailed assessment of the matters that the majority is now asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e415	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e418	It is clear that whenever a limit adjustment is made, it would be a good idea whether the matter should be sent to Stortinget or not. I think there are several points that can be involved in that discretion. This applies to the area and to the inhabitants, but also to the income of the municipalities. And for a few years back, more specifically on March 4, 1994, we also had an adjustment case, where almost half of Alstahaug's municipality's area was transferred to the Wefsn Municipality, which is probably the Council of State aware of that in his county. This was true of hundreds of people, but there was a lot of space, and it was also about concessional income from power development, which was very important for the municipality of Alstahaug. This was decided by the Ministry, i.e. the working party government, at that time. It was also when a referendum was held, and the two circles concerned thought it was okay. The majority would be transferred, but Alstahaug's municipal government went against it by a large majority. And then I ask the Council of State: does the Council of State think that this matter was so much less important than the matter we are dealing with now, and that this matter, between Vanylven and Sande, must go to Stortinget, while the Workers' Party government decided the matter between the municipality of Alstahaug and the municipality of Wefsn? I also want the Council of State to confirm that this is not what the representative No Quail Bay says, that if the municipalities disagree, the matter is for Stortinget in any case. And I repeat what I said earlier about Ragnhild Queseth Haarstad thinking that this was an assessment case, and that the matter could be decided by the department.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e427	Firstly, it is not possible for me to answer for what former states councils have said, even though it is a former state council from my own party. As I pointed out in my first post, the proposition is approved by the Council of State on 19 March. It appears from the text that the Ministry's assessment is that this is not a minor matter. Nor is it the case, as the representative Øye asked, that there must necessarily be agreement between the municipalities in order for the ministry to decide the matter. There are other criteria, as I said in the previous case, which are crucial. As I also said during the examination of case No. 1, it's not a boundary regulation that you run with every two years, or every day for that part. Border regulation is, in my view, a serious matter, which should be anchored as far as possible. This government has therefore chosen to send both of these cases to Stortinget – the previous one, which is much smaller than this, was sent to Stortinget, and this is also a matter that the Government has considered to be of such a size that it should be sent to Stortinget. I record that previous governments have assessed it in a different way. But this is, as I said in my post, an assessment that must be made in each case. I record that several parties in this room have now expressed that this is a matter that can be decided by the ministry. The Labour Party has said that, representatives of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party have said so. But then there are other parties who say that the matter has to go back to Stortinget. I also said in my first post that I chose to interpret Stortinget so that the department now has the necessary authority to decide the matter after the investigations requested by Stortinget have been carried out. This has nothing to do with refusal of decision, as the representative Eye said in his first post today. The Ministry has given a clear recommendation to Stortinget. We're going to do the research we've been asked for, and we're going to be able to make decisions about it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e442	After all, the last theme to be addressed by the Council of State is of strategic importance, of course, in view of the possibility of further influence and possible results. I would like to stress that although the parties have expressed themselves as referred to here, there is no requirement from this room to decide the matter in the department. For our part, we have addressed the previous clear view of the Council of State that this is an essential matter. It is with pleasure that we record that the Council of State will now conduct the necessary investigations and perhaps a renewed question: At what time does the Council of State consider that a decision can be made – whether we should not challenge him in which arena?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e452	It is not possible for me to answer exactly as to the time. I don't even know if I want to make a guess about it. The Ministry is now asked by a majority in the United Kingdom to conduct some investigations and some further investigations in relation to the importance of this merger for the municipalities concerned. At the same time, the Ministry has also been asked to carry out an assessment of a major community merger in the area, affecting several municipalities. Of course, we should also make that contact, as there has been no other signal from Stortinget but that we still want it to be done. That's what the ministry will do. Of course, the length of time these studies will take is crucial for the further progress in the case. Unfortunately, it is not possible for me today to say anything more than that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e463	The point of Signe Øyes' example from the municipality of Alstahaug was to show that former governments in matters of border regulation on a large scale chose to make the decision, and had the opportunity to do so. It has been the Workers' Party's view all along, including in this matter. From the time former municipal minister Ragnhild Queseth Haarstad contacted me, among others. in order to ask for advice on the matter, the Board of the Workers' Party has clearly stated that the Department should decide the matter. We have registered that the Council of State has sent a letter expressing a different view from that of its predecessors in the Council of State. However, the Workers' Party has intended, and still believes, that this is a matter which the Ministry should have decided, and which the Ministry should also now decide after reassessment and new treatment, as outlined in the resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e468	It has been registered by the State Council that the Workers' Party wants. I can't answer if there's a difference in vision between me and my predecessor, but my letter is in line with the text of the proposition. It is the department's assessment, but this is of course an assessment that is also to be made at Stortinget. I record that the Workers' Party and other parties have made the assessment that this is a matter that can be decided by the Ministry. I also record, as it has quite rightly been said, that the department in other major cases under previous governments has made decisions on matters that have actually been more extensive than this case. It shows that this is an assessment question. It's hard for me to say something more than that. I record that, in my opinion, it is a majority in Stortinget that wants the department to take a decision on this matter as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e477	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e482	The matter we are dealing with today is a minor regulatory matter, a matter that has long been taking place in the south of Sunnmare, and which, in my view, is ripe for a decision to be taken now. When it comes to regulating the border between Sande and Vanylven in Møre and Romsdal, I thought this was a curative matter, and I was glad that the government made a decision that Åram Krins would be transferred to the municipality of Vanylven. But in my view, this regulation of limits is a matter in which the Government itself could have taken a decision without it coming to the Stortinget. When the majority in the committee now refuses to allow Åram Krins to transfer from Sande to Vanylven municipality, there is hardly any reason for them to build. I want to point to a number of areas that are important for Åram krins to be connected with the municipality of Vanylven. Geographically, Åram krins is a natural extension of the mainland area located in the municipality of Vanylven. Vanylven is on the border with Sogn and Fjordane. The people of Åram krins must travel 20 minutes by ferry to come to Larsnes in Sande. In addition, we know the bad weather and waiting time for users. A free connection to Vanylven will have a lot to say to people in Áram krins. A list of signatures from the people of Åram krins was sent to the municipality of Vanylven in mid-February 1996. Their claim was that Åram Krons was transferred from Sande to Vanylven Municipality. On March 16, 1998, there was a constant referendum in the city of Åram, where 62 p.m. of the votes cast for transfer to Vanylven. There's a population of 400. The Ministry of Local Affairs asked the County of More and Romesdal in a letter dated 27 January 1999 to question the issue of regulation in the area. The County has recommended that Åram Crowns be transferred to Vanylven. The advisory public opinion, the geographical situation and communication mean that the cultural and social integration of the krins in Vanylven will be reinforced for years to come. From this, I think it must be logical that such a frontier regulation makes sense to people and users their wishes. When we look at the geography and the close connection Åram krins has to Vanylven – this is true of both the public services, the traffic and the social and cultural services – it is natural that this krins will be incorporated into the municipality of Vanylven. The public vote of the Crown must be decisive, this has to do with democracy. I also want to show that this is a little bit of a boundary regulation and not a bigger municipal convergence. The fact that these matters are now being sent back to the Ministry of Local Affairs and to a new overall assessment of the local boundaries seems inconceivable to me. This has been tried before, and the municipalities will not be involved. Then my question is, what is the point of such an arrangement? [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e501	I think this debate has been clarifying at a point that I raised in my first post, namely that it is not explicitly stated in the plural proposal that the matter may have to go back to Stortinget. Now the Workers' Party has signaled that they are on what I believe has been the tradition of the Workers' Party, that they see this matter so that the Department can decide it. The council has also interpreted it this way, and said that he is bid to take a decision in this matter as long as a majority in this Chamber has given him authority. I can also say on behalf of the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party, which represents the minority proposal, that we are also commanded that the Council of State can decide on this matter. I will therefore, on behalf of these three parties, transform our proposal for a transmission proposal, in the hope that the Council of State will deal with this matter and take a decision in line with the proposals of the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e506	I'll keep going with the rest of my post. What is going to happen then is that the case of Karam krins is being sent out on a new journey between the ministry, the magnificence and the government. This may be a new long wait. I believe that this is part of creating political disdain and is an undermining of common sense and folklore. When such a case, with a smaller border regulation, can create so much work, it can be difficult to come up with sensible regulation of the municipal structure in the future. This bothers me. I would also like to believe that there is a bit of a uroar government council, when we know that several such regulations will come in time. When it comes to the consequences for the Sande municipality, I would point out that the municipality will still have approx. 2,800 inhabitants. In Norway, 138 municipalities have fewer inhabitants. The Ministry has referred to an impact assessment carried out by the municipality of Sande, which concludes with: ‘Today’s organisation does not seem to be an economic disadvantage in the context of border regulation.’ On this basis, I will support the proposal of the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party that Åram Krins be transferred to the municipality of Vanylven, and expect the municipal minister to take the final decision in relation to the Åram krins. This hastens things too. We are faced with a new municipal election, and people must now actually have the right to know what they are going to do, and where they are going to vote at the municipal elections.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e522	There's probably no reason to extend this debate so much, but it was Laila Kaland's speech that made me take the floor. The arguments put forward by the representative of Kaland have been put forward in the Committee. We've heard all the arguments, and many of them are good. But there are also other arguments, which come from other parts of the Sande municipality, on which the committee has chosen to place greater emphasis than that of the department and the county. With regard to what serves the people in such a border control case, it is clear that consideration should be given to those who want border regulation. But you also have to take into account those who lose. Those who lose in this matter, as we at least on the SV's side have perceived it when we have received information in the committee, are primarily the people on the islands. We see that the views that come from there have not gained enough weight, and that the reasons for Rest-Sand, that is, the people who live there, have not been sufficiently taken care of. Their views have not been heard, and how Rest-Sand will work has not been sufficiently clarified, including: in relation to the school community, which has been stressed, and that is very important in a community. It is with a little wonder I hear the Workers' Party is now most concerned about whether this government is as brave as the previous governments have been to make such decisions. It is a bit funny that the Workers' Party in the same week as they have appeared to be the leading representative of the big business, now argues against the Stortinge to deal with such a matter as this, and believes that this should be done by the Government. I guess that's how you use the arguments that you think are most appropriate right here and now. Whether it's a central government or a labor party government or it's the different parties that sit in the Storting, you want the treatment that you think serves your own vision best. It has shown the Workers' Party to the full before this week in a big and important matter like IT Fornebu, and they should perhaps dampen their own argument about such matters a little, at least in the same week, so that it doesn't become too obvious that there are no primal attitudes to such matters.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e533	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3349]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e547	At the request of the family, cultural and administrative committees, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups: the working party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e554	Document No The 8 proposal has been promoted in order to start work on strengthening Norwegian education for pre-school children with poor Norwegian understanding. In principle, it is proposed by the proposers that this should be a voluntary offer which should be made mandatory over time and that the 4-year control should be referred to as a possible functioning silage body. There is no doubt that the development of languages is an important point for a child’s ability to adapt, among others. compulsory school. This is why in recent years attempts have been made, for example: free childcare services in a metropolitan district in Oslo with a high level of foreign languages. This experiment is just one of several that shows that social intercourse, educational guidance and training combined with play and natural development are working. That is why we from the Workers' Party have been sceptical about participating in a scheme that requires the development of compulsory education for 4-year-olds. We have no faith that this is the right method for improving the Norwegian knowledge of pre-school children. On the other hand, there is a unanimous committee that sees that this is a field where more resources have to be put on. That is why it is also a unanimous committee that now asks the Government to examine different pilot projects in addition to those already in progress, precisely to improve Norwegian education for young children, and to return to Stortinget with this. We have not yet received an evaluation of the impact of the introduction of cash support on the objective of improving Norwegian knowledge for these children. However, there is little doubt that this is not a successful contribution to strengthening integration, as pointed out already in the implementation of this scheme. This contributes to the current finding of the Workers' Party that further action in this area needs to be taken and pressed forward. There's no doubt, as I was in the past, that kindergartens are the most important thing we have today to integrate and train the language of young children. It should be unnecessary to address all the problems of linguistic minorities in order to learn Norwegian and in integration work, but cash support only helps to reinforce these problems. The more worrying it is that the center parties in today's setting are not willing to accept that this is actually a problem, a problem we need to use resources to reduce. The fact that the Progress Party is still insisting on using the Child Protection Act as its main instrument has been rejected by the Storting, and there is nothing better about it being repeated. Some problems at least that won't solve, even if the Progress Party later to believe it. In contrast to the Right, we also have no need to express any distrust of the Government for its position in this matter, although I suspect that this is only a linguistic error that a bit of training in large language could help to break out. But we want to be in front of the conclusions we get in evaluating the cash support. It is therefore important to pursue continuous work to find effective ways to reduce the problems that children with poor Norwegian understanding face.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e571	The proposers from the Right have presented here a Document No. 8-proposals requiring action to be taken against children of pre-school age who do not have sufficient Norwegian knowledge. The proposers are asking for an initial pilot project to be launched for children who have such poor Norwegian understanding that their ability to attend education will be hindered when they begin school. It is proposed to check the Norwegian understanding of the children in the context of the 4-year control and then launch the offer. In the proposal, the proposers point to the problems that arise and exist when Norwegian knowledge is insufficient and the societal problems that arise in the wake of this. The Progress Party agrees with these conclusions and will demonstrate that the Progress Party has been focusing on this for a long time. It is a fact that children from the immigrant community perform worse results at school than Norwegian children in all disciplines. This is left in children of first-, second- and third-generation immigrants. It should not be difficult to understand, then, that these poor results will continue to flourish in life in the event of higher school dropouts and difficulties in employment. This can well be described as poor integration. In a letter from the State Council, the government has explained what measures exist and concluded that the Ministry will not initiate any more new projects. The projects relate to parental education and free short-term provision in kindergartens, and some out-of-town pilot projects. The Progress Party has always focused on Norwegian education and does not share the Government’s view on language teaching. One has been doing this for a number of years and cannot show that it has produced results. Here I would just like to refer to the proposals made by the Party of Presidents in connection with the report by Mr St. No 25 for 1998-1999, in which we had the following comment in the Innst.S. No 110: ‘It should be the same obligation for parents of children from linguistic minorities to ensure, under the Children’s Act, that children born in Norway have sufficient Norwegian knowledge when presented for admission to ordinary public schools.’ In addition, I will also mention our comments regarding the Children's Act: «It is considered a care failure if parents of Norwegian citizenship or permanent residence in the country do not take adequate measures to ensure that children resident in the country have acquired the necessary Norwegian knowledge when they are going to start in the publicly funded school.» The Progress Party has assessed the proposal. We also support the proposal put forward by the Workers' Party to investigate various pilot projects to improve Norwegian pre-school children's knowledge. However, I would like to make it clear that the Progress Party does not intend to investigate new projects that focus on parenting. Norwegian education must be given to the children concerned and Norwegian education when they come to school. Here I must be allowed to say that the proposers, and the Right, have not been among those who have asked critical questions about the mother tongue teaching in school. The proposal by the Right bears great significance that it is the government that is to take responsibility for Norwegian education for children under compulsory schooling. This, of course, takes the Progress Party away from it. We still want to pay attention to where the responsibility lies – i.e. with the parents. It is clear that I agree with the representative Alstad when he points out in his statement that the right here is opposed to compulsory education for four-year-olds instead of focusing on where responsibility should lie and direct some action against their parents. I am also unable to refrain from commenting on what Alstad said about the cash support. The cash support has worked for a very short time. The existing problems of Norwegian skills in immigrant children have existed for a very long time. That the cash support should be the reason why the Workers' Party is joining in to force through new measures, I think it is strange. So instead of seeing the realities of what's going on in schools, the Workers' Party goes back to its criticism of cash support, and finds there the cause of all the misery around the community. I could imagine that the Workers' Party would contribute constructively to promoting some measures to do something about the problem, instead of constantly referring to the cash support as a cause.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e596	School students in today’s Norway represent an ethnic, religious, cultural and linguistic diversity. The children meet school everyday with very different assumptions. It is registered approx. 120 native languages among students in Norway. In some schools, there may be between 20 and 30 different languages. This fact shows some of the challenges the school faces. Document No The 8 proposal we are dealing with today addresses important issues around the time before school starts, so that both children and teachers in school will get the best learning and working conditions possible. In this area, language training is essential. We know that pre-school age is the most important period for the development of oral language. For children with a minority background, we talk about learning two languages: the mother tongue and Norwegian. It's important to master both languages. It is unquestionably crucial to master Norwegian very well in order to find a place in the Norwegian community. This applies to both social, school and working life. In addition to mastering the language, it is necessary to know the rules of the country's culture. Of course, this also applies to Norwegians who live abroad for short or longer periods. To understand another culture, it is a prerequisite that one is consciously its own culture and the values it stands for. Cross-cultural competence, which is requested, inter alia: working with children and young people, not only knowledge of other cultures, but equally a challenge to our own attitudes. Multicultural society is being tested both in kindergarten and in school. In the public debate, there has been a lot of focus on learning Norwegian for immigrant children, and that is good. But when we talk about Norwegian understanding, it has to be clarified that conceptual and cultural understanding is closely related to Norwegian education. The bilingual assistants are a very important resource in kindergartens. But it is worth noting that the role of bilingual assistants is not primarily to train children in Norwegian language. Their task is to stimulate children's own mother tongue and to familiarize them with their own cultural background. An equally important task for bilingual assistants is to assist as bridge builders between the different cultures, create trust between the different cultures and create trust between the children in kindergarten. Training and stimulating children in Norwegian is a task assigned to preschool teachers in kindergarten. They are responsible for all children's language development. This is enshrined as an important principle in the Framework Plan. In school, primary language training shall be a means of facilitating learning in other subjects for students with limited skills in Norwegian. Research suggests that children and young people who master their own native language and emotional language find it easier to accommodate themselves in a new culture and more easily to acquire a new language. It's important, especially for children, to be able to express feelings in as precise a language as possible. Bilingual assistants in kindergarten play a major role in the linguistic security of pupils. Conceptual development and linguistic understanding depend on training in your native language. The Christian People's Party still believes that it needs to be clarified at school if the children have adequate Norwegian skills, so that they do not need native language training. Minority-speaking children have a linguistic and cultural base in other countries. It is important that minority speakers learn Norwegian well when they are going to live in Norway. A well-developed mother tongue has a value in itself for all groups and contributes to the development of identity and self-esteem. The Christian People's Party will stress that the parents and the home have the primary responsibility for children's development of their mother tongue. Kindergarten and school shall be supplemented by support during a transitional period. It is also the parents who have the primary responsibility for children’s language development in the early years of their lives. But I have to say, however, that the Progress Party extends this point well when they call it a care failure if the children have not acquired the necessary Norwegian skills at school start-up. We must be careful to let inflation go in such a seriously charged word as a care failure. Let's use this word on appropriate occasions. The Christian People's Party believes that kindergartens have an important function both in terms of integration and Norwegian training. We are therefore pleased with the various projects in progress, which aim at language development and integration. The Ministry of Children and Family Affairs finances, inter alia: a three-year trial project with free short-term offers in kindergartens for all five-year-olds in Old Oslo. The Ministry of Children and Family Affairs and the Ministry of Church, Education and Research will jointly take the initiative for a project focusing on systematic language training for the group of five-year-olds in some municipalities. It is important that we investigate different pilot projects to improve Norwegian knowledge for pre-school children.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e624	The right is pleased that a unanimous committee has followed up the intentions of our Document No. 8-proposals and supports the requirement for the Government to investigate and submit different pilot projects to the Stortinget. It must also be said that there are slightly different reasons for supporting the proposal. I can say right away that I am so pleased that Per Sandberg so clearly expresses what the Progress Party really means. The right cannot support the line on which the Progress Party has committed itself in this matter. For immigrants, learning the language of the new country is perhaps the main factor in successful integration and the ability to take an active part in working and social life. Therefore, in order to better integrate children with a migrant background into Norwegian society, we have promoted this proposal on Norwegian education for children of pre-school age who are not Norwegian. In Norway, children growing up in a migrant setting have often had inadequate Norwegian schooling skills. There will be a significant obstacle to their ability to benefit from education and help to reinforce the difficulties of finding their own identity and place in the society of growing up between two cultures. The result of the lack of language skills is that an initial difficult integration process becomes even more difficult. Increased emphasis on Norwegian education among non-Norwegian children could make a significant contribution to a more successful integration process. International studies have shown that students from linguistic minorities in Norway have significantly weaker school performance than is the case for children of Norwegian parents. An example is the TIMSS survey, which includes 45 countries. Norway is one of the countries with the highest proportion of minority students among the weakest students in mathematics and natural sciences. Much of the teaching does not reach many minority students because of the lack of skills in Norwegian that they do not understand the textbooks and the essays. Researchers point to several factors that can explain that minority students perform worse than Norwegian students. Socio-economic background and a safe school environment mean a lot. However, the decisive barrier is the language. Minority students receive training in a language many do not master at school in classes with Norwegian-speaking students. Often, minority students are moved too early into a normal class of Norwegian students without having language prerequisites to follow the teaching or take an active part in the social environment of the class. The language barrier will prevent these students from developing their professional skills and finding a place in the Norwegian community. It is a significant loss for them as an individual and for society as a whole. We've seen examples of students growing up in cross-breeds from different cultures without feeling that they belong in some of them, working together in the community of different gangs. They have their own standards across society. In the worst case, the result of children falling through school professionally and socially may become uneducated young people in a criminal career. We therefore believe that a pilot project should be launched with Norwegian education for pre-school children with poor Norwegian understanding. In order for children with a background from other cultures to be able to follow their education at school, Norwegian skills are crucial. An offer of Norwegian education to children with poor Norwegian understanding will be a targeted integration action. Over time, we believe that this should be established as a mandatory training offer for children who are particularly low in Norwegian understanding at the age of four and five. However, it is appropriate to launch a pilot project based on a voluntary offer whereby municipalities are given considerable freedom in the organisation and implementation of the action. We are familiar with the project being carried out in Old Oslo, and insofar as the other projects referred to by the Minister for Children and Family Affairs in his reply to the Committee are concerned. I would like to take the kind of good advice from the representative Alstad to be a little careful with the language here, but at least I find reason to say that we are a little dissatisfied with the answer that the department has given on this matter. There are quite large concentrations of foreign language students in many parts of the country other than in Oslo. Among other things, I have had meetings at the Drammen Mountain. Mountain kindergarten has 20-year-old practice of receiving foreign-language students. City of Old Oslo came on a study visit to Mountain when they were going to start their project, and it would be reasonable that other cities and major places that have a large share of foreign-language rivers, can also try out different projects, as we put up in the proposal. Of course, parents have a primary responsibility for the children to learn Norwegian. But when parents do not know Norwegian, society has to take responsibility. This does not necessarily have to be in the public domain. We have a lot of private kindergartens today that can also take care of this. But it's important that they get an offer. Drammen offers Norwegian education for six hours a week to some parents and children who do not have kindergarten. It's a very popular offer. It is among the proposals that you can assess and that you can implement them at no great cost.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e641	Providing training in Norwegian is an important tool for integrating people with a minority background. Therefore, continuous efforts must be made to improve the means offered. Similarly, new supply needs to be developed to target different target groups, such as drug users. pre-school children. In this, it is important to stress that there is a voluntary provision for these children. Here, a thorough process of developing and initiating new supply is needed in order to get well-informed from the target group. We are aware that in the case of primary language training, the Ministry of Education, Education and Research, in cooperation with the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, will take the initiative in a project focusing on systematic language training for groups of five-year-olds in some selected municipalities. Here it is very important to point out the function of kindergartens, both in terms of integration and Norwegian training. Therefore, the work of getting enough nursery facilities for those who want it must continue. This is something the Center Party has been working for too long. Here you can also find that the Ministry of Children and Family has funded a three-year trial project with free short-term childcare facilities for all five-year-olds in Old Oslo. The aim of the project is to bring several children with a migrant background into kindergartens, so that they are better integrated and receive better language training before school starts. Otherwise, this is a problem that is most relevant in other parts of the country. It is an important objective to have as comparable a supply as possible across the country. In this context, it may be important for municipalities to cooperate across local boundaries where appropriate, if there is a shortage of pre-school teachers or others who can work with this. The aim must be to find good and practical solutions to this. It is important that children learn to master Norwegian as early as possible. It is taught by game and social interaction. However, if this is not enough for many Norwegians, it is now important to provide for different pilot projects in order to improve Norwegian pre-school children’s knowledge. Otherwise, I have to say that I distance myself from the comment of the Progress Party in the setting of parents who have not learned their Norwegians before starting school. Here they quote their own comment from the St.meld option. No 25 on native language training in the primary school. So it's twice as much as I thought it would be a mistake to write it wrong when I first read it: ‘In cases where it is revealed that parents have not complied with their obligations in this field, it should result in reactions such as fines and/or follow-up from child protection.’; At the same time, the Progress Party expressed itself as it did last year in the parental message setting: ‘These members will strongly point out that the parents are the children’s main responsibilities and authoritative staff. Parents must therefore be treated as independent and equivalent negotiating parties in relation to the school.» With this, it is only to note that the Progress Party does not share the same view of parents in these two settings. So the party's claim that there should be equal treatment for all is not valid here. Could it have anything to do with this for immigrant parents, and then it's free to threaten fines or follow-up from child protection? It may not be that parents are only important responsible and authoritative persons and equivalent negotiating parties if they are Norwegian born!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e669	The starting point for the proposers is good. Our new countrymen are going to have a chance to be included in Norwegian society, and then it's important to be able to speak. Then there is agreement that there must be more pilot projects here. The proposers believe that a mandatory training offer should be established over time for children who are particularly low in Norwegian understanding at the age of four and five. So that's where the agreement ends. SV believes that it is wrong to think this way when you are teaching pre-school children in Norwegian. Learning is done when kids are motivated and when they get the sense of it. In preschool age, languages are best taught in interaction and play with other kids, and with adults. We therefore have a good tool in the form of kindergartens, which is the largest common arena for kids, where one gives kids with a different native language than Norwegian a very good offer compared to getting the language developed and being included in the Norwegian community. Therefore, we believe that the most important tool for young people to develop language is that we have enough kindergartens. SV has pointed out in several contexts the lack of investment in kindergartens, which the Government is now contributing to with the support of the Right and Advance Party. If we are to achieve the goal of full child care coverage by the year 2000, it must be completely different from what we are witnessing now. If the proposers wish to contribute to the inclusion and Norwegian training of children with a minority background, they must be willing to invest in solutions other than cash support. The problem with cash support is precisely that it contributes to less use of kindergartens and more use of private solutions, which do not provide the same good basis for language development as kindergartens provide. It's true for all kids. In Old Oslo, an already three-year trial project – the more they have told us in the debate – offers free short stay in kindergarten for all 5-year-olds. One of the objectives is to bring more children with a migrant background into kindergartens, so that they can be included in Norwegian society and language training before they begin school. I think it is gratifying that all of them, most of them, have accepted this offer. We believe that offers such as this should be extended and made permanent for more children. We also know that the prices of kindergartens mean that many parents do not have the financial opportunity to have their children in kindergarten. Therefore, a part of the strategy to make kindergartens more accessible to enable them to function in relation to language training must be to look at the parental payment in kindergartens. In a study conducted by the Fafo Research Foundation in 1998, one looked at the different perceptions of kindergartens in five ethnic groups in Oslo. What it showed was that many immigrant parents want kindergarten, but they don't get it, even though they want it. The feedback from parents who have or have had children in kindergarten suggests that a majority of ethnic groups are very satisfied with the quality of childcare services. They are also pleased that through the kindergarten, the children are given the opportunity to learn Norwegian, and to spend time with others. Kindergarten use among domestic women with a minority background is significantly higher than among Norwegian domestic women. Kindergarten use is not only a matter of parental desire but is also influenced by accessibility. Among parents with a minority background, there were more than twice as many who rejected the application as they did not have children in kindergarten, as among Norwegian parents. The main reason for the request for kindergarten for the older children is the importance of learning Norwegian. This study supports the point of view that SV has repeatedly pointed out about the importance of full childcare coverage and low parental pay, so that all parents can have their children in kindergarten regardless of the financial situation. SV encourages and challenges the proposers and the Government to help develop more offers so that we can ensure the best possible offers for the children that are not tied up to today’s cash support scheme – i.e. ensure that more people can have the opportunity to have their children in kindergarten. Otherwise, of course, we support the unanimous proposal by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e695	We all agree that it is important that children with a foreign cultural background learn Norwegian before they begin school. Yes, even the Progress Party thinks it's a good idea. How to achieve these knowledge, I think there is a certain difference between the right-hand side and the left-hand side of Norwegian policy. I have experienced quite a number of budgets – babysitting budgets – and as long as I have been on the Stortinget, the Right and Advance Party have cut out the operating grant for maternal trainers in the kindergarten. I would like to stress that parent language training is an important prerequisite for learning a new language, and therefore the Workers' Party has found it right that these mother tongue trends, which are not only trainers in native language, but also bridge builders between Norwegian society and the foreign cultural family, are given the opportunity to follow the kids not only in kindergarten, but also in school. Then it is a form of double morality for me that the Right Cuts the appropriations that could do the kids good in Norwegian, to start trial projects with Norwegian education for pre-school children who have a poor Norwegian understanding. Through the examination of Document No: The 8 proposal has probably come to an understanding that compulsory education for pre-school children may not be such a very good proposal, and they have therefore been included in the majority’s proposal that various pilot projects to improve Norwegian education for pre-school children should be examined. I think it is important that Norwegian education has two convergence points: to be able to speak its own native language well, and especially Norwegian training for pre-school children. On Tuesday I visited the immigrant children's gardens in Old Oslo, and what they were doing there was collecting immigrant children with different cultural backgrounds so that their common communication became the Norwegian language. It was interesting to see the methods they used to teach these children to speak Norwegian, both with each other and with the adult staff. In such kindergartens, I think it is important that the adult density is high, and that the staff has contact not only with the kids, but also with the whole family, so that the family gets support and encouragement that they can give to the child, and the safety of the nursery staff. In kindergarten, they stressed the importance of providing guidance to adults who follow their children by means of pedagogical staff in kindergarten, so that their Norwegian skills could also improve. They told me that they had even followed mothers to Norwegian courses so that they would also be interested in learning Norwegian. Then the nursery has a double meaning for the whole family. In order to improve Norwegian understanding of preschool children, it is important to start as early as possible. Perhaps the project should be considered starting from the age of four. It is essential that these nursery services are targeted at those districts that have a large percentage of immigrants, and that this is not just happening in Oslo. What we're seeing now is that there's a migration of immigrants within Oslo, and that you have to start action in more urban areas than you have at the moment. I look forward to the ministry taking seriously the importance of getting systematic language training for 4- and 5-year-olds. I think it's a good investment in the future if we're to prevent some of the language problems. So to the Progress Party: I actually don't take that party seriously in terms of integration and foreign culture. When the representative from the Progress Party claims that kindergartens are not particularly important for this group, I would like to say that one of the places where Norwegian culture and Norwegian language understanding are based is actually in the kindergarten. There's a common knowledge that you can build on when it comes to school. So I hope the representative will support the various measures that are voluntary and not mandatory, which come from the Ministry of Children and Family when they have looked at this serious issue.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e716	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e720	I had never expected the representative Fossum to take the Progress Party seriously, so we would have a long way to go. But I'll register it and take it with me. This also confirms what I said to the Workers' Party's view earlier. The representative Fossum says it quite basic and simple: The basis for children's growth, culture and linguistic development is laid in kindergartens. That is where the Progress Party disagrees. We believe that that basis should be laid at home, along with the parents of the children. If it is so alarming that the Progress Party expresses its opinions, and if it scares the representative Fossum so violently, I could have set up a whole list of references to people who have conducted research in this particular area, who actually support it under the Progress Party. But I'm not going to spend the time doing that. I was also somewhat disappointed that the representative of the Central Party is unable to see the connection between the two comments she referred to. That's the exact same goal that lies in both of these comments. They refer to the responsibilities of the parents, and that's what's fundamental to us, unlike the rest of the Storting, who will transfer responsibility from their parents to the public. And so here, the representative of Greece from the Right is also trying to get away – he says that language teaching does not necessarily have to be under public control, but the only example he refers to here is that there are private kindergartens. So it's not a public commitment. Of course, it's the same principle that's applied here from the Right. They want, in line with the Socialist Left Party, the Workers' Party and all the others, to take responsibility from home, out of their parents' hands and to transfer it to public or private kindergartens, which was when Helleland referred to. The setting may seem a bit misleading. It says that the majority is promoting the proposal. I think it must have been made a mistake by the Group of the Progressive Democrats in the Committee, because it was at least our intention that we should also support that proposal. In fact, I think we were the first fraction to support the Labour Party proposal. So here it will be said that the committee is promoting the proposal. It will be interested to see what comes back from the Department and the Government here. If the proposal that comes is linked to the further use of kindergartens for language teaching, the Progress Party will, of course, distance it from it at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e731	The representative Sandberg refutes the fact that shared arenas for children are the most important place where children learn culture and where language develops. Then I have to say that he has not listened particularly to the researchers who say that it is precisely in the common arenas children are developing. I'm pretty sure Per Sandberg has also evolved in common arenas with other children. It's in kindergartens the largest common arenas today. I would like to ask the representative Sandberg: how in the world is he to ensure that children learn Norwegian if they are to be left to their homes and parents alone, and their parents cannot Norwegian? This is a shortcoming in the logic. So it was this proposal from the Progress Party that child protection should go in if the parents have not taught their Norwegian children. Does this apply to all parents? Do Norwegian parents also apply if they have not provided their children with essential knowledge in order to function in Norwegian society? Is child protection going in towards them too? I have, like the representative of the Central Party, a suspicion that this is «us» and «the others» – this stigmatisation: «us», «us», «Norwegian», and «the others» coming from the outside, which creates the ground for conflicts in Norwegian society. It is this attitude, in which people are excluded, that creates ground for conflicts in Norwegian society. I just wanted to – it was very intrusive for me – to say this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e740	The representative of Ågot Valle is concerned that cash support is actually an obstacle to implementing this proposal. Then I dare remind the representative that the cash support applies to 2- and 3-year-olds. Here we talk about projects for 4- and 5-year-olds. Then she talks hot for kindergartens. So does the right. We want full babysitting, like most of the games here on Stortinget. All of the games have joined that goal. So I don't see that argument as having a goal. So over to Grethe G. Fossum from the Workers' Party, who, in a familiar style, is trying to take credit for a proposal that has been promoted by the Right, saying that the Right has joined the majority's proposal. So it is the case-rapporteur and the Labour Party and the Committee that have joined our proposal, with some linguistic changes. I don't think there's any reason to argue so much about it, because here we agree on the goal. But it is clear that it may be difficult for the Workers' Party to see that others also take initiatives leading up to this Chamber, especially when the party has so many problems in getting through to its current affairs. The representative Sandberg is concerned that the Right has now left the line where we have always been safe and well-planted, namely that it is the parents who have the primary responsibility for the growth of children. And he's worried that the public should play a role. It does not necessarily have to be the public that takes primary responsibility through kindergartens. There may also be others who take care of this language training. It is in a way where a bit of the problem lies, in particular in the SV and the Workers' Party, that it is only kindergarten that can give this offer. Experience shows – including: in Drammen – that there are many immigrant children, or many parents with a foreign language background, who do not want kindergarten. But once they get an offer for language training, a couple of days a week or three days a week, they say yes. Then they set up, then they come to parents’ meetings – then even fathers come to parents’ meetings – because this is language training, this is training and this is important. It must be possible – and I hope that the Ministry and the Council of State can see a little prejudiced about this – to let municipalities try out different projects now, so that not only is it to be the SV model, with free kindergartens for everyone. So take the SV distance because the Right in the long run wants a mandatory offer. What we want is for us to give an offer to those who really need it. Whether it is in kindergarten, in the context of voluntary teams and the activities of organisations, in relation to the health centre or elsewhere, is subordinate. The main thing, which is a good social investment, is that children with a foreign language background master Norwegian when they start school. It will actually save society a lot of money, and the foreign - language children will earn a lot later in life.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e757	Ågot Valle has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e760	I fully agree that the overall perspective is that all children should be able to learn Norwegian in this way – by being able to Norwegian – to function better in school. When we talk about a mandatory offer, I understand that then the children are going to hang in and have some training. It is true that children learn best when the offers are voluntary, when the motivation is at the top and when it is in interaction, in the common arenas and in play with others. It's precisely the kindergartens that are our largest common arena. That is why we are concerned that kindergartens should be developed and that more kindergartens should be built that make the offer available to more people. When parents do not use kindergarten for their 2- and 3-year-olds, they also often take out 4 and 5-year-olds, where there are many children in the family.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e767	I will neither try to take credit for any proposal nor anything else, and I can gladly give Right commendation for having taken up the matter. But when the Right Representative tries to present it as if the Workers' Party has supported what was the Right's original proposal, I feel a certain need to rectify it, because the Right actually promoted a proposal that the Workers' Party is directly opposed. The right-hand proposal involves compulsory Norwegian education for four-year-olds, and if there are any who have been given the impression that the Workers' Party will support it, you are mistaken. The joint committee is in favour of a proposal to improve the Norwegian knowledge of pre-school children. This is quite different from compulsory Norwegian education from the age of 4. It is a well-known fact that the common arenas, meeting places, or whatever you choose to call them, are an important place for the development of a social and cultural community, whether it be the adults or the younger ones. The representative from SV pointed out that kindergartens are an important common area for children today. Yes, it's actually one of the few we have for young children, especially in the districts, where you'll find that there are large distances. The post offices are another arena we have. They don't want to be as good for four-year-olds as for adults. That's why I think it's important that we try to take care of some of the common arenas and use them actively, to create the social training and cultural development that children of the 4-5 age, or adults, depend on. This does not mean that it relieves parents of any of the responsibilities that parents should have. But society has to be involved in setting up also for the children, as it does for the adults.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e774	Per Sandberg has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e777	Then I must be quick. Who is it? Ask Ågot Valle from SV. I would like to encourage the representative, Valle, to read what is in the comment. It says that it is a ‘obligation for parents’ ‘from linguistic minorities’, and it also says, ‘It is considered a care failure if parents with Norwegian citizenship or permanent residence’, etc. The Training Act states that all obligations to teach their children Norwegian. Then it should not be so hard to understand that it applies to everyone. I see that the representative, Valle, has a strong desire to present this as if the representative, Sandberg, is now separating immigrants from the Nordics. That's not what's going on. We'll show you where the responsibility lies. Then the representative, Valle, would like to continue to transfer all responsibility, training, all training and cultural activities to the kindergartens and the common arenas that she wants to build.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e786	Trond Helland has had the word twice before and gets 1 minute's speaking time to a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e789	It has to be short. Jon Olav Alstad claims that the Right has a completely different proposal than the Committee has agreed to. I would then like to read the two proposals, so that the few who are present can assess them. Right-hand proposal in Document No 8:28 says: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate and launch various pilot projects’ — I stress pilot projects — ‘with Norwegian education for pre-school children with poor Norwegian understanding, and to put forward a proposal for this in the budget for 2000 at the latest’. Then comes the version of Alstad, to which the Committee has joined: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out various pilot projects in order to improve Norwegian education for pre-school children and to provide this to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner.’ I don't know who's right, but I have a sense that there's 1-0 for me at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e808	Jon Olav Alstad has had the word twice and gets 1 minute's speaking time to a short remark.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e812	I do not know how the honourable Member manages to make it necessary for us to make a different proposal from what they have promoted. If the Right Representative has not yet come to realize that there is a difference between a proposal based on Norwegian education, which is to be a test project, but which is to be gradually developed to become a mandatory offer from the age of 4, and a proposal to improve Norwegian education for pre-school children with the template in the note, I understand Right's problem.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e817	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3350]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e830	Storting goes to voting on the issues on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e836	During the debate, Mr Gedrem put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party. The proposal is included in the setting. Sir. Überdrem – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e841	In the light of the debate, I would urge the Central Party and the Christian People's Party to vote in favour of the vote, and at the same time ask that the minority proposal which I have seen in the debate be turned into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e846	Then we have to make a slight change here. So the proposal from the Christian People's Party and the Central Party is turned into a transmission proposal. This means that, in such a context, the initial sentence that reads ‘Required by law’, etc., will be superfluous and deleted. The remaining part of the proposal shall then be worded as follows: ‘The Government is advised to ensure that the border between the Eastern Toten and the Western Toten municipalities of the Uppland State is changed so that the town of Kolbu as a whole is located in the Eastern Toten municipality, and a smaller part of the Eastern Toten municipality on the outskirts of the Kolbu centre is transferred to the West Toten. The county council shall be empowered to establish the boundary in the outer area of ‘Small Guarda’. The transfer shall take place with effect from 1 January 2000.’» The President proposes that this proposal, with such a wording and with no reference to the legal base, be forwarded to the Government without a motion of censure. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Committee had ceased: St. pp. No 43 on the regulation of the borders between East Toten and West Toten municipalities in Oppland County is to be sent back to the Government for new handling and decision. [[1998-99]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e871	During the debate, Mr Solholm put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre Party. The proposal is included in the setting. The proposal of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party has been converted into a transmission proposal. A certain change of wording must therefore be made, in agreement with the proposer. In this context, the introductory sentence, which reads ‘Stated by law’, etc., will be superfluous and deleted. The remaining part of the proposal shall then be worded as follows: ‘The Government is encouraged to ensure that the boundaries between Sande and Vanylven municipalities in More and Romesdal counties are changed so that Åram krins are transferred to the municipality of Vanylven.The transfer takes place with effect from 1 January 2000.’ The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-20.ana.ud1376e913	There is no record.
