ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e83	The President of the Storting, Kirsti Kolle Grondahl, and the representatives of Olav Gunnar Bello, Grethe G. Fossum, Petter Løvik, Synnøve Konglevoll, Elsa Skarbøvik and Gunnar Skaug, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershu County: André Kukkestad. For Hordaland County: Gard Folkvord. For the county of Nordland, the bears of Olsen. For Uppland County: Kjell Ivar Fossnes. For Oslo: Sissel Dagslet. For Sogn and Fjordane County: Gunn Steinhovden. For Telemark County: Jens Arnfinn Brödsjømoen. Tore Nordseth and Michael Momyr. For reasons of well-being, applications are made from the requested alternate of the Nordland County State, Arvid Falch, as well as from other alternates, Karl N. Meløysund, to be exempted from meeting under the leave of the representative Steinar Bastesen on 16 and 17 March. On the proposal of the President, a unanimous decision was taken. 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The third alternate of the Nordic State, Benn Mikalsen, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e173	Benn Mikalsen is present and will take the seat. From the representatives of Ms Bæivi and Ms Økland, there are applications for leave from 16 to 18 March, both to attend a conference on the relationship between the State and the People's Party in Moscow. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representatives, for Finnmark County Einar Johansen and for Nordland County Oddbjørn Hanssen, are invited to meet during the leave period.3. Einar Johansen is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Mimmi Beevi.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e202	Einar Johansen and Oddbjørn Hanssen are present and will take the seat. From the Prime Minister's Office, dated 15 March 1999 there is the following letter: ‘To Stortinget. The State Council of H.M.K. held at the Oslo Castle on 15 March 1999 at 1100 is determined: The Council of State of Ragnhild Queseth Haarstad is notified upon application by the court of grace as a member of the King's Council on 16 March 1999 at 9.30 p.m. 1100.The Council of State Aud Inger Aure shall be notified, on application, by way of grace from the office of a member of the King's Council of 15 March 1999 at 10 a.m. 1400.From 15. March 1999 at 2.30 p.m. 1400 takes over the Federal Council of State Odd Einar Dørum from the Ministry of Justice and Police, Council of State Dag Jostein Fjærvoll from the Ministry of Transport and the Council of State Eldbjørg Løwer from the Ministry of Defence. Nurse Laila Davøy is appointed as a member of the King’s Council on 15 March 1999 at 2.30 p.m. 1400 and will take over from the same time as the Management Board of the Ministry of Labour and Administrative Affairs. Mr Odd Roger Enoksen is appointed as a member of the King's Board of Governors from 16 March 1999 at 2.30 p.m. 1100 and from the same time as the Administrative Board of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs.State Council Marit Arnstad is granted leave from 26 March 1999 at 2.30 p.m. 1200.At that time, the State Council of Marit Arnstad has taken over Anne Enger Lahnstein from the Ministry of Oil and Energy in addition to the Ministry of Culture. State Council Peter Angelsen is appointed as Norway's representative in the Nordic Council of Ministers with the specific task of being responsible for the coordination of Nordic cooperation issues [[Nordic Minister for Cooperation]] The referenced letter shall be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. First Deputy of the Nordland County, No Quail Bay, takes the seat as representative of the time the representative Odd Roger Enoksen is a member of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e241	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament on Tuesday and Wednesday – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e246	I allow myself to propose Kenneth Svendsen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e251	Kenneth Svendsen has been proposed as president. Other proposals are not available, and Kenneth Svendsen is unanimously elected president of today’s and tomorrow’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e268	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 50 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 10 minutes, Progress Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers from each party group and from members of the Government. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e279	I would like to express my thanks to the Committee on Good and Constructive Cooperation as the case-rapporteur for the Grand Prix Communication on Parental Training in Primary School. I would particularly like to highlight the Workers' Party, which is a member of and forms the majority in the whole position. SV is also involved in the vast majority of comments, while the SV fraction has contributed several good comments. Not surprisingly, the Progress Party is alone with its comments. There are a large number of the majority comments on the right, but neither the Right nor the Advance Party would like the parent language training to be laid down. Otherwise, I refer to the setting in which the special comments of these parties are made. The majority of the committee supports the notification. This is based on the work done in Stortinget, both in terms of the communication of immigration and the setting of a new curriculum for primary school. In the latter, the Stortinget underlined that all students should have adapted training according to their assumptions. This principle is followed up in today's setting. This is wrong when it is produced in some newspapers as a cut in the native language training. It is clear that the measures for which the notification is addressed can be implemented within the current resource framework, but the funds should be better targeted. It is stated that students who are not adequately mastered in Norwegian at school start-up are to receive native language training. No key provisions are given on the number of hours to be offered. The extent is determined on a professional basis, assessed by the teachers, possibly with the help of other professional experts. The funds are to be given to the municipalities as earmarked funds, given after the submission of reports listing the number of students in each municipality, which then receives the funds as a form of framework allocation. While it is an important objective to make provision as comparable as possible across the country, the Committee expresses concern about the lack of native language teachers. It is expected that municipalities will need to cooperate across municipal borders where appropriate. Training for native language teachers shall be pursued and additional training shall be provided to those who need it. Furthermore, the curriculum for language teaching will be developed. This shall pay particular attention to the basic principles of literacy training, conceptual development and multicultural themes as a support substance. The majority also point to the importance of mother tongue training for children’s identity development. It is important that students learn to master Norwegian as early as possible. It is learned, among other things: and social interaction, but for many of the students this does not provide a thorough enough introduction into the Norwegian language. Therefore, it is important to add to specific Norwegian training. Later, bilingual education in all subjects may be necessary. This must be assessed on a case-by-case basis. Parental education is, of course, a relatively new area of training in Norway. Therefore, more classroom research is encouraged in this field. It's in the big cities there's most students with a minority background. The Committee refers to the notification, which points out that rather less mother tongue training and specific Norwegian training are provided in Oslo than, for example: in Bergen. However, the Committee stresses that such training is to be offered to students who need it. However, the Committee is also aware that it is difficult to find enough native language teachers in places with students from many different minorities. We therefore ask the Ministry to be in close dialogue with Oslo to find good, practical solutions. Five minutes of speaking time doesn't allow me to go so deep into the different areas. Nor should it be necessary, because there is a solid majority behind the position we now have in front of us. But I still have to say that I take a strong distance from what the Progress Party says in its remark about parents who have not learned their Norwegians before school starts. It says: ‘In cases where it is revealed that parents have not complied with their obligations in this field, it should result in reactions such as fines and/or follow-up from child protection.’; I thought it was a mistake to read this for the first time, but later it is repeated in the press, so it is probably serious meant. Last year, however, the Progress Party expressed itself as follows in the setting of the parental message: ‘These members will strongly point out that the parents are the children’s main responsibilities and authoritative staff. Parents must therefore be treated as independent and equivalent negotiating parties in relation to the school.» I note that the Progress Party is not consistent in its view of parents in these two settings. So the lot's claim that it has to be non-discriminatory for everyone is not true here. I think that's gross.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e311	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e314	Fines and child protection I will come back to in my main post. As the rapporteur said, our remarks in the vote will show that there are relatively few areas where the Progress Party and the rapporteur share views, in fact it is only in the initial, very general remarks and considerations. The case rapporteur represents the Centre Party, a party that has said in several contexts that they are occupied by municipal self-government. The message we are handling today, with the support of the Centre Party, adds up to a clear municipal coercion in terms of mother tongue training. Provisions on the obligation of municipalities, etc. are to be introduced. I therefore have the following question: Is this not a strong estimate of municipal autonomy? I want to be here, among other things. refer to the opinion delivered by the Central Association of Municipalities, which is highly sceptical. What is so wrong is that we allow municipal politicians to assess this need based on local circumstances, on the level of languages and opportunities of immigrants to be trained in each municipality, and on priorities in relation to other needy groups in the community. My other question is: There has been a limit on language training for four years, but a majority, consisting of, among other things, The centre party believes that training should be continued for several years thereafter. How long should this training be possible and at what price – simple and simple: How much will it cost?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e323	Yes, it's true, as the representative of the Progress Party says, that the Center Party is very concerned with local self-government. We've just had a national meeting where we adopted a manifesto where this goes clearly. But the centre party is also concerned that we should get the same offer as possible, not least for the weakest groups, and in this case I believe that minority students in many cases belong to the weakest groups. What's special here, and as we've highlighted in the comments in the setting, but which I haven't repeated now, is that KS said in the hearing that they'll be in favour of earmarked grants. That's what made us follow up what the department had put in the message. There are some things that are superior, and that's that we take care of the weakest students. They need to get the help they need – a customized training at school. There is no mention here that all minority students are to receive native language training. It's quite clear that it's for students who need it, and we trust the teachers' professional assessment of who's going to get it. That's the one. Then it was that the ministry initially set limits for students with limited Norwegian skills to be trained for four years, and that we have expanded it. No, we've been following the message here as well. From the Ministry’s point of view, it is clearly stated that in cases where further language training is found to be needed, this can be continued until the students are found to be in control of Norwegian. The point is that students have to get a basic roof in Norwegian and good conceptual development. If the students don't get hold of this early, they'll be hanging all the way. This also shows a number of research reports. Although we would like to see even more research carried out in this field, it is clear that professionals say that this is the best way to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e330	The rapporteur, Marit Tingelstad, was particularly concerned with this with equivalence, that there should be an equivalent offer across the country, and I agree with her in that. But we have a big message that shows that this is not the case today. For example, the situation is that in the municipality of Oslo, which is the municipality with the largest number of students belonging to linguistic minority groups, fewer students are using native language training. Of course, this may be because they do not choose native language training, but when we compare it with, for example. Bergen, who was also the case rapporteur, has reason to believe that there are so few students in Oslo who choose native language training, due to the way in which they organize it. If that's the case, and there's reason to believe, this is worrying. Then I regret that the rapporteur was not more concerned about how we should get an equivalent offer across the country. My question to Marit Tingelstad, as rapporteur-in-Office, is then: Does it worry her that the proportion of students from language minority groups in Oslo who receive native language training is so low? If this is due to the way to organise the parent language training, should not we, as a committee, have been clearer to the municipalities, with instructions on how to organise this in order to ensure equivalent offers and to ensure that children from linguistic minority groups are offered mother tongue training?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e339	I'm going to give Rikvam the representative the right idea that this is a dilemma. It's a dilemma when we want it to be given as equivalent offers as possible, and then you can see that it is not given as equivalent offers as it was desired. It says in the message, as Rikvam says, that there is more mother tongue training, and specifically organised Norwegian training, in Bergen than in Oslo. We are aware of that. We have had representatives from Oslo for consultation in the committee, and they believe that they have now found the best way to do this. But there's a strong comment from the committee that says that all municipalities should offer pupils who need it, native language training. I believe that is a clear signal to the Municipality of Oslo. At the same time, we recognise that municipal autonomy should apply, and in Oslo there is a strong majority decision that they should follow the model they now have. It's just SV and RV, if I don't remember faults, that haven't gone into it, so it's also mentioned. I believe, as we have mentioned in the preamble, that close dialogue between the Ministry and the Municipality of Oslo is needed to ensure that what the Stortingeet decides today is fulfilled, because when we know that it is very important for the development of identity and for the self-image of the student, we have to take note of it. I hope it's being followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e344	I am so very grateful when the representative Tingelstad in his post pointed out that we have never cut the mother tongue training, that what is in several newspapers is wrong. I also want to clarify another fact. The representative, Jagland, also entered a debate on TV with this strangeness that the Progress Party actually cut Norwegian training – it is similar error. However, what I want to ask Marit Tingelstad a question about is this somewhat strange connection that she had between our comment on this matter about maternal education and the comments we had in the setting of St.meld. No 14 for 1997-98. I don't see those connections there. Some of this is precisely because, for some reason, Norwegian parents are unable to teach their children the language they need before they start school, the municipality would like to take preventive measures, in terms of child protection, kindergartens, health services, etc. – and that this is done to Norwegian parents, we look at it as a completely ordinary and logical thing when, for some reason, they do not have the ability to teach their own children the language they need. I would like to ask the representative of Tingelstad if there is such a difference between Norwegian children and immigrant children that child protection cannot have as a preventive task, where there is clearly a lack of language understanding, to come in and help with this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e351	I didn't say it wasn't cut in the native language training in Oslo. I said that this message does not add up to a cut in native language training on a national basis. This means that the state undertakes to give about the same amount of resources to this area, and there is a big difference. Because it is a fact, and it was said in the hearings in the committee, that Oslo has reduced significantly the number of hours and then the corresponding amount of money to this particular area. So that misunderstanding I hope now is clearly corrected. Then I was told that she does not see the connection between what the Progress Party has said in its comment here, and what they have said in the setting of the parental assistance message. But I see the coupling. I see that there are two different views and attitudes being presented, and that's what scares me. It is clear that society is responsible for entering and helping in cases where children are neglected, whether in one way or another — whether for immigrant children, children from minority groups or children with disabilities of all kinds, it is covered by our legislation. The representative, Ursula Evje, did not mention that it is black in white in the setting that one wants to go in with fines where students are to have language training and where the parents have not taught them Norwegian. And that, in my opinion, is very, very special, to say it mildly. So it says, and I'm going to repeat it: ‘In cases where it is revealed that parents have not complied with their obligations in this field, it should result in reactions such as fines and/or follow-up from child protection.’; Should the Progress Party be completely consistent in its position, it is clear that they must also propose fines for Norwegian parents with children who cannot be Norwegian liquid when they start school.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e363	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e367	I'll start by telling you about a nice meeting I had not long ago. It was a young couple with a little two-year-old. She was Italian, he was Norwegian, and at home they spoke mainly Italian. When the little child spoke to his father, it spoke Norwegian, when it spoke to his mother, it spoke Italian. Norwegian taught the child mainly in kindergarten, and it mastered both languages just as well. Bilingualism and multilingualism are a great resource both for those who can and for society. I think the best way to learn Norwegian is to be in contact with the Norwegians. Young children learn language very quickly. I see that the Right has a proposal for language training in kindergarten, and I think the very best thing to do for children from linguistic minorities was to let them stay in a kindergarten where there were enough Norwegian children to teach Norwegian according to the nature method. Then they could both learn their own language at home and learn Norwegian in kindergarten. So if you really want to go in to teach children from Norwegian linguistic minority groups, the state should deploy resources to offer these groups of kindergartens – and preferably free kindergartens, for many people don't use kindergartens because they don't have the money to do so. But they also need to be taught their mother tongue when they come to school, because if they are to develop and become a real resource both for themselves and for the Norwegian community, they also need to be able to have their own native language. That's why I'm glad that a broad majority is in favour of providing mother tongue training for those who need it, for at least four years, but also longer if there is a need for it. I am also pleased that the majority in the Committee, all except the Advancement Party, refers to the importance of using the mother tongue not only as a tool for learning Norwegian, developing concepts and functioning in Norwegian school, but also for being proud of and secure in their own culture and learning their own language. It's important to point this out. We have also seen that several research reports support the importance of mastering their own native language in order to learn Norwegian and other schools. It's not enough to leave this to their parents, they might not be able to Norwegian themselves. Punishing parents because they do not teach their children Norwegian, I take a great distance from them. We have stressed that the parent language training in the rule is to be given in 1. – 4th grade, but you can also receive four years of training later in school if the students get into school when they get older. It is positive for Norwegian society that we now have more linguistic minority groups. Our society is getting richer by more mastering many languages that society can benefit from. As far as curricula are concerned, we agree that curricula should be developed both for first reading and writing and for mother tongues as an optional subject. So you can use and develop your mother tongue later in primary school, and that's positive. Otherwise, it's long enough for us to reach the goal that everyone should be able to have equal opportunities to evolve in school. We need to focus more on that, so that we can reach the goal of a school that is adapted to all children.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e384	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e387	As I said before, there is not much Progress Party part of the Centre Party's view on this matter. That is why we do not agree with the Workers' Party either. This is a consequence of the fact that the two parties in this case agree on most of the things. My first question to the Workers' Party is as follows: We have had a long time of primary language education in Norwegian primary school and see the following results: generally poor results in most primary school subjects, especially in real science, high school dropouts, high leave, etc. How can it be practical to praise parent language training in the clouds as mentioned in the comments, when the results are so bad? So to my next question. The working party believes that the parent language training should be organised in such a way that it does not go at the expense of other subjects. That's very good. But at the same time, it is said that it should be made possible for each student to be able to continue working on the mother tongue through project work, etc. later in school. Then it will just push or go at the expense of other subjects. As I see it, it's obvious that one position hits the other in the heel. Can the representative explain the logic behind the Workers' Party's view of this field? And finally, a question I asked the Center Party, but to which I did not get a clear answer. There has been a limit to maternal language training in four years, but a majority of them, among other things, are: a. The Centre Party and the Workers' Party consider that the training should be continued for several years thereafter. How long are they going to be able to do this, and what are the costs?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e398	There are several factors that make some children from linguistic minorities not functioning well enough in the Norwegian school system. Here's a lot of things to catch up to. There are also many Norwegian children who do not function well enough in the Norwegian schoolwork. We're going to have a debate later today that goes to high school, where we'll deal with some of the problems in primary school. But it's clear that there are many things that we can do better even when it comes to mother tongue training. I believe the second- and third-generation children and children born in Norway must learn Norwegian early. Norwegian training must actually start playing with other Norwegian children. Then they will meet the school much better rusted than if they come without knowledge in Norwegian. This is also the funniest and easiest way to learn Norwegian. I want to tell you about my granddaughter who went to the nursery in Trondheim, where they had a child who was deaf. One day my granddaughter came home and knew many signs in the deaf language. Children learn so quickly, and kindergarten can play an important role. In terms of how long we want them to receive primary language training in primary school, it is the whole period out if the need is present. And optional subjects – you can choose subjects in primary, secondary, and then it would have been a good idea if those who were minority linguistic groups chose their mother tongue as an optional subject. This is not at the expense of the other subjects in primary school. But otherwise it's up to the individual school how they want to organize this, and I have the confidence in the teachers that they'll be able to do it very well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e407	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e410	As we will see from our remarks, there is not so much of St.meld. No 25, Parental education in primary school, in which the Advance Party agrees. Let me first take the cost aspect. As I understand it, grants for specific Norwegian and native language training this year will pass 600 million. over government budgets. Of this, approx. 200 million. for parent language training alone. There is also considerable expenditure on municipal budgets. These large sums alone should indicate that one saw with a certain skepticism in the field. It is also reported that the proportion of children with a foreign language background is generally strongly increasing in Norway. This is particularly true in some major cities. Another main feature of development is the concentration of foreign culture in some parts of the city and in some schools. This is what we see in several cities, among others. in Oslo and in my own hometown, Drammen. The Advance Party believes that mother tongue training for immigrants should not take place in the Norwegian public school. For a long time we have had native language training in Norway. And what are the results? Yes: Children from the immigrant community have generally seen lower school performance in most subjects than Norwegian children. The traits are left in children of first, second and third generations of immigrants.The poor results seem to be propagating further in life. This can be seen, for example: in the form of higher secondary school leave; this is documented in the magazine School Focus No. 1 1999. There are also difficulties with employment, and there is an overrepresentation in some criminal activities. Based on these experiences, there is no reason to believe that mother tongues are the right way to integrate into Norwegian society. As we see it, it is also clearly logical to assume that less focus in your own language is increasing students' knowledge in Norwegian faster. I assume that most have come to realize that linguistic minorities are actively using their mother tongue in daily communication with their neighbors. Most also apply for their own in school and leisure, and, unfortunately, reproducibility is dominant. Due to poor knowledge of Norwegian culture and language, young people are recruited to have a community. This trend provides a basis for the juvenile delinquency we see today. The Progress Party believes that an instrument for ending crime by linguistic minorities is that they learn Norwegian as soon as possible and use the language in both social, school and work contexts. This will help to balance social and cultural differences, facilitate integration and weaken the barrier in relation to the Nordics. In our debate today, we should also take into account the fact that there are many Nordics who are angry with the many special measures that are part of the immigrant group. The Progress Party believes that these measures help to strengthen the gulf between immigrants and the Nordics. We believe equal treatment for all of the public sector, removing all special benefits for linguistic minorities, will prevent contradictions between the Nordics and these groups. We also want to put a tougher pressure on the parents of immigrant children; it has already been promoted in the debate today. Norwegian learning should take place as early as possible at home. Persons from linguistic minorities should be required to adapt to Norwegian society and learn and their Norwegian language. This obligation should be particularly burdensome for parents with young children. It should be the same obligation for parents of children of linguistic minorities to ensure that children born in Norway have sufficient knowledge when they are at school for Norwegian parents, under child law. In cases where it is revealed that parents have not followed up their obligations in this field, it should result in reactions such as fines and/or follow-up from child protection. We also have a concrete proposal on this. I would like to end by stressing that although the Advance Party believes that parent language training should not be charged to public budgets, it should be freely up to the individual to conduct this type of training. Education may, for example: run by different religious communities or organisations. However, it is a prerequisite that it does not go at the expense of the ordinary schoolwork and Norwegian education of the individual child. At the end of the day, I would like to address the proposal that the Progress Party has put forward in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e447	Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e452	I can advise the representative – if it is possible to advise him, I may not be entirely convinced of that even – that instead of asking the question of whether we have been successful or not in relation to language teaching, perhaps the Progress Party should have held a debate internally on the situation in school if we had not had language teaching, because it does not affect the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen anything in particular in his statement or in the remarks. The Progress Party draws up a broad debate on immigration with very many strange proposals in relation to the nature of the communication. I dare to argue that when the Progress Party sees the concept of "motherhood education" when they see the possibility of starting an immigration debate, they go more or less completely "bananas" if I can use that expression. Throughout all those years, at least I have been a policy participant, have been very reserved and have had many accusations against the role of child protection, not least in relation to when child protection is to be used in the home on the basis of family care failure, while in the case of immigrant children, the proposal for the use of child protection comes. It might be interesting to ask, but I hardly think I get answers there either: What in the world is it that the child protection now is the tool the Progress Party will use in relation to care failure and the lack of Norwegian education from the parents? What does the Progress Party really want with that proposal? Is it taking the kids from the parents?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e459	The President has some doubts as to whether the representative's use of the word bananas in this context is parliamentary, but will not issue further charges for the use of words.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e462	I can promise that the Progress Party has a continuous debate on all its positions, including immigration policy. When it comes to parenting, we have gone through it thoroughly, and we see the concrete results, as I mentioned in my post, in the form of poor school outcomes in primary school, in the form of large drop-out rates in high school and in the form of an overrepresentation in criminal activities. We don't think these are good results, and we think that if we focus more on learning about Norwegian society and Norwegian language, we'll deal with these problems to a greater extent than we do per. today. In this respect, it shall be possible, as part of the proposal, but also the follow-up to the protection of children. Here's more possibilities. What we need to see is that it is very serious when children living in Norway do not learn Norwegian, and then we need to take serious and heavy measures to change it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e471	The main division in the debate is between the government parties, the Labour Party and the SV on the one hand and the Right and the Advance Party on the other. But it is clear that it is the Progress Party that stands out clearly, in two ways: firstly, they claim that it is not documented that Parental education is good in relation to Norwegian training, and secondly, they use the opportunity to increase the temperature of the immigration debate. The Christian People's Party believes the message is a good proof by referring to research reports that there is a link between native language skills and Norwegian knowledge. The whole chapter 2.5 of the message shows that. But the Progress Party will not believe in that research. On the other hand, they try with their own logic that maternal education takes away strength from Norwegian education, even if the research shows otherwise. I almost have the impression that the Advance Party will not know. And then it's claimed that the native language training gives poor results, especially in real science, said the representative Knudsen. But is it the mother tongue that is the problem here? Of course, Norwegian professional terminology may be difficult to use, and the answer must be better training, not nothing. In addition, the comment of the Progress Party may indicate that the objective is somewhat more. The argumentation and conceptualism create an unfortunate contrast between the linguistic minorities and Norwegian-speaking people. Examples are the concepts of ‘non-cultural’ and ‘ethnic’. You can almost be led to believe that it's a desire to raise the temperature. The representative Hagen has said that he will not attack the immigrants, but the system. Then there's a proposal to fine parents who don't have enough Norwegian skills to teach their children. But isn't it just an attack on the group? And what about Sami when all mother tongue training other than Norwegian is to be abolished? I think we need a clarification now. Is it Norwegian training or is it the immigration debate that is in focus? And when will the Progress Party take into account the research that already exists?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e483	It was not my claim – at least not supposed to – that parent language training is a bad result in real science. But that linguistic minorities have poor results in real science will be shown, among other things. by St.meld. No 25 in Chapter 2.5.1, starting on page 14. With regard to the term 'ethnic Northmen', which was mentioned by the speaker, I would just like to point out that it is used in goose eyes and in this way the meaning one likes to attach to putting a word in goose eyes. With regard to these research reports, the Progress Party is not alone in believing that parent targets should be kept out of the public school system. I quote from an NTB article that was printed in several of the country's newspapers on 5 August last year: «Researchers believe that immigrants have to learn native language at home... Young people with immigrant backgrounds must not waste their time on native language education in school if they want to have a job in the future, believes the Indian-Norwegian researcher and Professor Amalendu Guha. In his last book ‘Immigrants in Norway’, Guha presents suggestions and theories on how authorities can reduce unemployment among immigrants and refugees. The researcher...emphasises the importance of proper education.– In order to compete with Norwegian youth on the job market, immigrant youth must be more skilled. So they shouldn't waste school time learning their mother tongue, they can learn that at home. They have to focus on the other subjects," says Guha to NTB." In addition, I can mention an article published by the Research Council in the journal Research, by fellow researcher Ingrid Glad, a doctoral student associated with the East Asian Institute at the University of Oslo, which concludes with: ‘Personally, I therefore believe that immigrant children will be best served by the Norwegian school concentrating on teaching them better Norwegian.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e504	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen said earlier that the Progress Party does not share the views of the Centre Party or the Workers' Party. I want to underline that there is also a very large distance to SV. It's rare to read a continuous note where it expresses such contempt for knowledge. The whole comment on the Progress Party is that they cannot have read the Storing Message, where one has referred to various reports, Irish, American and Norwegian, and one has also referred to the consensus conference held by the Research Council. All these reports show that there is a link between mother tongue training and the prerequisites for acquiring Norwegian, learning Norwegian, and also learning other subjects. This is quite clear – there can be no doubt that that relationship exists. When the Storing Communication identifies this context and the Progress Party concludes as they do, this is an expression of contempt for knowledge and information. It shocks me. So Ulf Erik Knudsen says that these are special measures for children from linguistic minorities. But we do have a school system where we're going to have to train. This applies to all — Norwegian children, and to children from linguistic minorities. This is organised training, based on the child’s assumptions. That's what's meant by the native language training. My question to the Progress Party is: Does the Progress Party believe that there is reason to doubt the research reports, the knowledge that the Storing Communication documents?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e515	It is tempting to answer that question with yes and then go and sit down again. But I'll elaborate a little bit. Several times today, I have highlighted the practical consequences of Norwegian immigration policy, where we see poor school results, large school dropouts, documented among others. in a report published in the magazine School Focus No. 1 1999; poor employment and problems of crime. SV would like to have three research reports down my head, but I choose to relate to the world of reality and what I see and experience when I go out on the street. And if I have a lack of respect for research reports, I would say that SV has a lack of respect for the world of reality.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e522	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e525	The message we are discussing now says that students will be offered specific Norwegian training, native language training and bilingual education until they have sufficient knowledge in Norwegian to follow the usual training with good results. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that students with limited Norwegian skills need to be offered mother tongue training in the first four years of primary school, mainly for reading and writing training. However, the offer may extend over the first seven years of school if necessary. The training shall normally not be at the expense of other training and should be provided in relation to the day of schooling of the students. Students must receive bilingual training until they have sufficient knowledge in Norwegian to follow normal school training. Where practicable, the parent target should be given as an additional choice at the youth level. The message contains a number of measures for the implementation of this training, which the Christian People's Party finds positive: The aim is to provide regulations on the obligation of municipalities to provide pupils from linguistic minorities with the necessary language language training until they have sufficient knowledge in Norwegian to follow normal school training. A syllabus of language training is proposed. This will put the emphasis on the first reading and writing training. A mother tongue curriculum is also being developed as an additional choice subject for youth. A guidance is proposed which will describe how training for pupils from linguistic minorities is to be seen in the context of other training. Designated grants for training for pupils from linguistic minorities shall continue to be provided. The central association of municipalities has just joined in for the same reason. Attention will be paid to the simplicity and predictability of the grant scheme for municipalities. The proposed measures do not require increased appropriations. It is important that schools and municipalities should work to find new, better and untraditional models for the organisation of training. The Ministry will encourage municipalities to carry out local experimental and development work in this area.The training of linguistic minorities should be part of the school-based assessment. The assessment of the quality of training provision for linguistic minorities will be part of the national assessment system. It is necessary for optimum training to be provided. It will be important to strengthen contact with students' homes in order to ensure the best possible outcome of training. The Christian People's Party supports the proposal to impose on municipalities the obligation to provide the necessary training in native language, bilingual training and specific Norwegian training. We know that there is a great difference between municipalities in the number of students with a foreign cultural background who need native language training and special Norwegian training. While the total number of students on the ground is 8 pst. language minorities, is the number in Oslo approx. 27 pst. The Christian People's Party would stress that all municipalities should provide language training for foreign students, but municipalities themselves must choose the most appropriate organisation of the training. Cooperation between municipalities with few pupils in some languages should be established. We would also point out that even if the notification indicates that training is to be particularly valid from 1st to 4th grade, it does not exclude that some students may need language training for several years. This applies not least to students coming to the country at a later date than at school. The Christian People's Party will point to the opportunities offered by language training through play in kindergartens and the school leisure system. Bilingual assistants in kindergartens play a major role in the linguistic security of pupils. Free nursery services are being tested in a metropolitan area in Oslo, and we have noticed that this scheme is being considered extended, and we welcome it. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Christian People's Party is pleased that the majority of the Committee supports the Government's conclusion in the Communication, so that it is possible to provide students from linguistic minorities with a good and necessary foundation for education and mastering.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e571	I don't think there's any reason to doubt that knowledge in the mother tongue is very important in order to acquire both Norwegian and other knowledge. But what's important in this debate is to try to get it down on the ground and look at what's the topic today, that's the public base's role in this work. I feel like I'm a little bit in the middle of the one side, which will ignore these problems, and the other side, which shows in so many words a goodwill that I feel we can go wild in a young boy of strenuous goodwill that won't lead to practical results. From the Right's side, we have said quite clearly that it is a goal that, as soon as possible after schooling, prospective elephants should have such good Norwegian knowledge that they can easily follow instruction in Norwegian. In order to achieve this goal, the school itself needs to assess, on a case-by-case basis, the method and measures most likely to meet its needs. If the school finds it appropriate and necessary, it must be possible to use mother tongue/bilingual education and additional Norwegian training. Right, thinks that the primary task for the school is to provide adequate knowledge in the use of Norwegian, and suggests the same way as the message that provision of native language training should go to the students with limited Norwegian knowledge. Right-wing also agrees that it is the individual student’s statements and linguistic background that must be the starting point for the organisation of basic school training. In our view, it is a natural consequence of this view that measures such as language/bilingual training must be assessed in the same way as other support and assistance measures used in the primary school in order to meet the requirement to provide individual pupils with training in accordance with skills and regulations. The right therefore suggests that it is not necessary to adopt own regulations and curricula that impose specific obligations on municipalities when it comes to language training. On the right, of course, it is considered that the individual municipality, with the primary responsibility delegated to each school, will use the methods and measures most appropriate in the individual case. On the same principle, the Right believes that funding for language and bilingual training should be done in the same way as for other education. We see no reason to continue with a form of funding that may give the impression that the provision of mother tongue training is more important and more prioritised by the state than any other part of the overall provision of education. We have therefore put forward in the vote a proposal which I would like to put forward, which reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to take into account the assessment of parent language training/bilingual training in line with other measures/methods used in primary school in order to provide individual pupils with appropriate skills and assumptions. This means, among other things: the absence of specific regulations on the obligation of local authorities to provide language/bilingual training, the absence of the development of their own language training syllabus and the repeal of the special State grants for language training.’ We will also show that the Right in Document No. 8:28 has proposed the launch of a pilot project with additional Norwegian training for pre-school children who do not have sufficient knowledge in Norwegian. And I noticed with interest that the representative Dørum agreed to our proposal there. We also believe that the fact that we can gain better knowledge in the pre-school age will reduce the need for primary language training. This relationship also speaks in this direction that we should avoid binding local authorities through regulations to indicate the importance of mother tongue training, since such a commitment would make it more difficult for municipalities to invest in the development of Norwegian provision for pre-school children. The case-speaker began his speech by decorating a deal in the committee. It doesn't mean Right among the most cooperative. That I choose just in this case maybe to take as a small compliment. The representative Lyngstad said that the main dividing lines went between the Right and the Advance Party on one side and the other parties on the other. It's a characteristic I want to take a great distance from. I hope one can see the dividing lines between us and the Progress Party and the other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e593	The representative of Løvik has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e598	I think I will start by saying that on behalf of the Workers' Party I will at least not place the Right in the box in which the Advance Party belongs when it comes to native language teaching. I have experience of this from 1995,1996 and 1997, when we dealt with quite extensive messages related to both immigration and Norwegian education in primary school. However, I feel that the proposal that is being put forward today is in many ways identical to what was promoted in the handling of the immigration message in June 1997. I would like to stress that in Oslo, which is the municipality that has the main weight of immigrant children or children with immigrant background, I feel that the Right really does not take the situation seriously enough. In Oslo, there's a cross-political block behind this. It says both the Right Party and the Advance Party, I would like to inform you, together with the Workers' Party, of the basis on which the teaching of the mother tongue is to be carried out. But it's a page that the Municipality of Oslo has repeatedly pointed out, and that's that it's enormously expensive. And I have to ask the representative, Mr Løvik, is it sincerely thought through the proposal that was made in 1997 and that is being repeated here today, that the special state grants for mother tongue training should be removed? Does the representative of Løvik expect the Municipality of Oslo to continue this educational system – which is currently agreed by a cross-political nature in Oslo – if the State grant scheme is removed?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e603	I want to start by expressing my thanks to the representative Rune Kristiansen, whom I understood at least in this matter on behalf of a collective party when he said that they see some distinction from that team between us and the Progress Party. I also hope that he sees the separation the other way, and I believe the representative does. Rune Kristiansen, especially Oslo, and Oslo are very special when it comes to the problems of mother tongue training. It is very pleasing – and it has been with and greatly affecting Right’s view – that such a large block in Oslo City Council stands gathered about the change and the arrangement that has now been implemented. It's a change entirely in line with our desire, that's a more targeted fixation of this -- not to spread this beyond almost without purpose and meaning by saying that it should be so and so large a percentage relative to something else, but that one goes in and looks at the individual case. I don't feel that the committee and what has been presented to the Stortinge today is taking full advantage of the experience that Oslo has gained, because I feel that we should go even further in the direction that Right has pointed out. This is expensive, and it will be expensive. But it's a less expensive arrangement than the one that the Municipality of Oslo has tried before, and a less expensive one in the long run than what the majority say today. We want to get away from the eartags, but it's clear that we need to take a height in the frame transfers because some municipalities have very special problems, such as: Oslo Municipality, as the representative of Rune Kristiansen named. So when we want to get away from ear-marked additions, that doesn't mean we don't want to worry about special problems in some municipalities via the frame design.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e612	Since the Advance Party is a theme in the line-up between Right and Workers' Parity, I can also say that there is a clear distinction in this matter between the comments of the Right and the Advance Party. On the basis of the Right's programme statement that the party is opposed to state funding for mother tongue education, I find some of the comments of the Right in this matter somewhat eye-catching. The warm defense of mother tongue teaching that they express in many places is actually a little strange in my eyes. But it has to be on the right hand side. I have the following questions: According to the comments, it is important that children from minority groups are proud of their own cultural background, and that training in their mother tongue strengthens and promotes this identity. My question to the Right – which often says that they are skeptical about public consumption – is: Is it so to understand that this is a public task that Kommune-Norway should prioritise? Is it a public task under the Right to ensure that immigrant youth is proud of its cultural background? The next point I would like to draw attention to is the observation that ‘Norway has extensive trade and relations with different countries’, and that knowledge of other cultures and languages is often a condition for international success. That sounds nice. The Right believes that we are being strengthened as an export nation, that the breakthrough of our business life abroad is being strengthened, by having significant immigration from mainly low-skilled people from Turkey, Somalia, Vietnam, etc.? Had it been about highly educated Germans, Frenchmen, Americans, etc., I would have thought that this would be a strength for business, but I don't think Norwegian farms will be strengthened by fishermen from Sri Lanka or farmers from Somalia.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e623	I have also given praise and advice to the representative Knudsen in the further reading of Right's program. But if I'm going to be so humble as to suggest that the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen also goes a little further into his right mindset, perhaps the representative should also right onto the posts held from right here in the hall. Born should be proud of his culture, and strengthening his mother tongue will help develop this, we have said. And of course we stand for that. But if the representative Knudsen listened to what I said in my first post, then I said that to the extent that this is going to go into the primary school, it should be in line with other measures for custom education. The alternative is that a good part of the students in Norwegian school will not be able to acquire knowledge in Norwegian and that they will need to receive help instruction during periods, which will facilitate the organisation of their pupils, and which will also make it possible to keep a progress in the class monthly. We're going against state-owned ear-marked appeals to this. But as far as this benefits from Norwegian training and other subjects, it is a necessary commitment in line with a number of other problems that we have to deal with. We need to distinguish between what we want and what means and who are required to implement these measures. When it comes to the last time the representative Knudsen came along, I found it very difficult to answer in a reply. What will be most useful to usurp wise Europeans or stupid people from other nations, as I understand the question, I will not be discouraged from answering from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e635	The representative Løvik said in his post that he did not feel that the main part that I tried to pull up my post was correct. He pointed out that there was a distinction between the Right and the Advance Party in the setting, and I agree with that. There's a distinction between them, and I'm happy for that distinction. However, I would argue that the main difference in this debate is how central it is to the education of the mother tongue is to Norwegian education, and there I feel that the distinction in the debate is between the government parties, the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party on the one hand and the Right and the Progress Party on the other. I do not agree with the Right when they consider native language in line with other measures or methods of adapted training for teaching. We also believe that there is a need for a statutory municipal obligation to provide language training and quality assurance of this training with curricula and also that one has a government grant scheme for language training. And that's where the main platoon goes. These measures are precisely justified by the fact that a person wants to ensure the training of his/her mother tongue in order to improve their ability to learn Norwegian. I fully recognise that there are also differences between the Right and the Advance Party, but the main issue is not going there. The main part goes on the other side of the right, to say it like this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e644	It's possible to put more head division in one thing than one. I'm going to agree with the representative Lyngstad that there's probably a difference between us and the other parties in front of the Progress Party. I've also said that before. But to the extent that it is a divorce, there is no distinction in the view of whether parent language training is important. There is also no distinction in the view whether it is possible to have a proper mother tongue, has something to say for the acquisition of Norwegian and other subjects later. The divorce concerns the question of 'Mortal education in primary school', which is the title of the message we are discussing today. So it's the base ball's role in this thing that we're looking at. We haven't been in a lot of comments that we thought go too far in being, as I said before, maybe "suffocating goodwill". Nor have we agreed to draw a code and ear-marked additions down the municipalities in these areas, but we have said that we believe that mother tongues are very important as a travel cap both in order to acquire Norwegian and to be able to acquire other subjects in the Norwegian Elementary School. So it's not about the will either to each student or to groups, but it's about a slightly different perception of what's real, what we can do about, and how we can get the best results with reduced resources in this area. I know, of course, that in the end, most people will see that we are right about this. Creating expectations beyond what we can do is throw people blues in the eye, and it's neither Norwegian school nor the individual with different mother tongues.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e653	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e656	Different research reports show that there is a link between school performance to children from linguistic minorities and whether they have received native language training in school. Both US, Irish and Norwegian research communities, to which the Storing Communication refers, stress that mother tongue training and additional Norwegian education for children from linguistic minorities should at least cover a 5- to 7-year period. This is necessary in order to enable children to learn Norwegian and to gain a deeper understanding of the language, but also to enable them to learn other schools during a period of poor Norwegian masters. The first years of schooling are important for the future professional development. During the examination of the Training Act, SV proposed to legislate an individual right to parent language training. Although there are many problems associated with such lawmaking, we see clear advantages. The most important thing will be to get the most equal treatment for children from linguistic minorities across the country. There are currently considerable differences between municipalities. For example, there are currently significantly fewer children from these groups in Oslo compared to Bergen, who use native language training. This may be because fewer people in Oslo choose the offer, but everything indicates that this has something to do with how to organise the arrangement. In an individual right, it would be impossible to organize away from providing native language training. We note that there is no majority for such an individual right today either. We have therefore chosen to go for the model of municipal duty as proposed by the Government. We are pleased that the majority emphasises that mother tongue training should not only be a tool for learning Norwegian and other subjects, but that education and curricula should focus on the cultural and identity-creating. It is important that children from minorities are proud of their own language and background. When children are trained in their own language at school, this helps to emphasise the importance of their language. Training contributes to the security of your own culture. For a society, it is also important that you have people who have good language skills and knowledge of other cultures. By communicating this in school, to the children — most people live their adult lives in Norway — the Norwegian community is given a population that masters different languages. Such knowledge should value Norwegian society. Ideally, there should be an advantage if mother tongue training was also aimed at making children functionally bilingual. The majority argue that, as a general rule, parent language training shall be given in the first four years. In the fourth grade, your children are nine years old. Children with poor Norwegian skills when they start school can not expect to master Norwegian so well that the mother tongue training should stop in the fourth grade. We believe that this should be offered throughout primary school and that there should be curricula for all years. With an obligation for the municipalities, without a corresponding individual right, problems arise as to who will receive the offer. I'm glad the majority are ready for standardised tests not to be used. The Committee emphasises that the teaching group-based local monitoring of children’s knowledge and school progress should form the basis for the provision of training by the municipality and for the duration of the training. It is necessary for municipalities not to be able to organise themselves away from this obligation. What we have seen in Oslo, where a small proportion use this offer, might indicate that Oslo is in the process of organizing away from this duty. One shall not be able to choose an organisational form which makes it difficult for children to make use of the offer. It is therefore important to establish procedures for state follow-up. Usually there is no reason to suspect local authorities. The state here earmarks several hundred million dollars for this training, and it is therefore important that there is a close state follow-up to the municipalities. Finally, I would like to address our proposals, the proposals No. 3 and 4 in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e679	Sir. Rikham has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e684	Individual law would make it impossible to avoid providing training; it would make it impossible for municipalities to organise themselves away from duty, says the representative, Rikvam. I interpret it in such a way as to give it an individual right, so that, regardless of the need to acquire Norwegian, everyone who wants to do so should have the ability to demand language training, as SV says. This would be very difficult to implement. It would cost a lot of resources, we would have a huge lack of learning skills for this, and we know that there would be a lot of other offers that we have today too little of in Norwegian school. Then I thought it would be appropriate to ask the representative, Mr Rikham, that very many people should have a right, or as the majority in the committee opinion says, that this should be an obligation for the municipalities to make a very large number of offers, is it more important, in the opinion of the representative than other appropriate training courses, which we know are lacking in Norwegian schools today? I am thinking of small problems that one could discover with a better adapted education, I am thinking of reading and writing problems, which several tens of thousands of elephants in Norwegian school have today, and I am thinking of many other small problems that we could solve if we had only had a little more resources to put in. I think there is a reason to ask the representative: would it be more desirable to use these buttons to provide native language training, or would the representative agree on the target set in his right?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e691	It's a very typical form of debate. Here we have some groups that are now trying to put up with each other. We have groups of learning difficulties, we have children from linguistic minorities who need extra education, etc. I don't see any reason to set these groups up against each other. They're in a situation where they need extra education, organized offers, so I don't see any reason here to prioritize among the different groups. In connection with the Training Act, we proposed an individual right to language training. We lost that fight. We did not reach – did not get a majority for this proposal. We've accepted that there's no majority here in Stortingen to give such an individual right, which I also tried to clarify in my post. What we've done is we've accepted this, and we've been in favour of what's the Government's arrangement, that's a municipal obligation. We believe that the obligation must extend beyond what the majority, and also the Government, insist that it should be the first four years, and then one should consider whether there is a further need. We believe, based on the knowledge provided by research reports, that this obligation should extend over a longer period of time. It's not a goal for SV, it's not a goal for anyone, that through an individual right, for example, children should choose their native language training. There is no objective in itself, but by an individual right it would have been easier for them to claim training. We accept that we won't, but we're dedicated to committing the municipalities for a longer period than the first four years. It's probably primarily where the difference goes between us and the government parties and the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e700	I want to grasp this as the representative of Reikvam spent a lot of time on, namely the individual rights of immigrant children, which can actually be interpreted as being so individual right that it far exceeds the rights of Norwegian children in Norwegian school. A relatively short time ago, the paper saw that it wanted to add earmarked resources for special education to the framework grant to schools, thus increasing the grant of money in municipalities without any special purpose. It is quite inappropriate to agree with the individual right for immigrant children if even children with special problems are not allowed to get help to overcome them. In terms of the differences between Oslo and Bergen, they get to be what they are. What I remember is the raid that was in Akershus a few years ago, when Rælingen municipality reduced the mother tongue training to the minimum that the state actually granted, and where the municipality had to pay only 10 pst. of the costs involved. Then SV was strong on the track, but had to give up. Then Rikvam took up something of great interest, and it's cultural and identity-creating attitudes. I thought that immigrants were involved in turning Norway into a melting pot of different cultures in the course of development – not that every culture should keep itself purely static, but that we might take good care of immigrant cultures, and immigrant cultures should approach us. I want to ask him the question whether that's what's in his mind here, or whether it's sitting on each other's face with different cultures.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e709	First a little bit about the individual right. I tried to answer it in relation to Petter Løvik. We are not promoting an individual right proposal now, which the representative of Ursula Evje has probably discovered. We've recognised that we've lost there. We had a proposal in connection with the Training Act, and there we had a model for when the individual right could be taken out and used. We've now gone on a municipal duty, and that's our sketch and our arrangement. We go a little further than the government parties and the Workers' Party do in relation to imposing an offer on municipalities. We're also going further in relation to what's related to curriculums, where we're saying that there's going to be curriculum development, and there's going to be curriculums for the whole primary school. That's where we separate ourselves from the other parties. The Progress Party should also be concerned that there are so many differences between municipalities regarding the use of parental training by children. There is only one explanation for this difference, and that explanation is the way to organise the offer, the way to organise it. There's no other way to explain this, and that should worry us all. It's important that we have a school, a training, that takes children seriously, that takes children's background seriously -- that the children who come into school feel that what they carry is taken seriously, and that it's valuable what they bring into school. By having native language training, by having a well-developed training in native language, we show that we have respect for their background, their culture, and it also helps to make them proud of their background. We're a multicultural society. This does not mean that they should approach our culture, but that we should jointly develop ways of working together.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e718	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e721	It is rare for me to be provoked by debates in this Chamber, but today I have to say that I have been somewhat provoked by the argument of the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen. Several representatives have raised the inconsistency of the policy of the Progress Party, which is made visible in this matter. This concerns the role of child protection, the view of parents and also their own immigration policy. The party chairman has previously stated that it is the system to be taken, not the immigrants. But what the representatives of the Progress Party choose to do in this case is attack on a group of parents. What the Knudsen representative said about the difference between European/American immigrants and immigrants from other cultures, I'm not going to go into here. It was strong from this pulpit. But what I'm reacting to may be the most strongly, is the section of the Progress Party's note, where one goes about giving mother tongue training the cause of crime in the Norwegian community. That level of oversimplification is that we rarely meet in large-scale documents, and I hope we don't do that in the future. I had to come with this little heart attack – I was so provoked. I'm going to move on to the Left's policy in this area. The crucial importance of linguistic development for the identity, communication and learning of children underpins the Left’s view of the public’s task of providing training in native language for children from linguistic minorities. Children who have a native language other than Norwegian must have the same opportunities for professional and linguistic development as Norwegian. This is particularly important in our society, which is characterised by greater cultural diversity than before, and where knowledge and education are more than ever the platform for participation in society, both in the workplace and as citizens of society. The left wishes to welcome this cultural diversity, and we hope that most of the parties on the Stortinget share this view. It is an obligation for society to facilitate equal opportunities for those with a different language or skin color in this society. The provision of mother tongue training must be seen in this context. Training in mother tongues and bilingual education is an important tool until the children master Norwegian. It is therefore important that this training is an integral part of everyday school life and does not go beyond other subjects. The government provides for a strengthening of the targeting of parent language training by giving municipalities a regulatory obligation to provide the necessary training in native language, bilingual education and specific Norwegian education. I must say I am a little surprised that the Right does not want this reinforcement. It is important to stress that Kommune-Norway has very different challenges in this area, and that the children involved are a diverse group. Therefore, the left does not want one-sided practice in the field of parental training. It is very important that schools and municipalities provide an offer that is tailored to the challenge of each school, and not least to the individual student’s premise. Parental training shall, as I said, be primarily a tool for linguistic and professional development for the individual child. But it is also important to stress that multilingualism is important for Norwegian society. The fact that the Ministry provides for the provision of parental training as an optional subject is important in this context. At the same time, it is important to point out that training in their own language provides security and positive identity in relation to their own background. In a society with a greater degree of cultural diversity, it is important that the school builds up under the background of the individual. The primary aim of the school of providing training on the basis of the individual child’s premise and background must be to the highest extent applicable to children from ethnic minorities. The left wants a liberal single school where the background of the individual is pre-eminent for education, not the goal of doing the same for all. This basic vision must characterise the teaching of all subjects and is not specific to the language of the native language.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e737	I think I'd like to start by saying – which some have also been in – that from the autumn of 1999, the number of children with a migrant background in primary school in Oslo will be approx. 28 pst. It says something about the challenges we're facing. I feel that there should be a degree of humility in relation to the issues that we debate here – and have often debated earlier – related to integration, language training, the right to work, the right to approved education, etc. But it is one thing that often disappears, and it is: are we politicians who have found the solution that mother tongue education is necessary? There I have great respect for those who are in Norwegian school every day. It is those who have firsthand knowledge of the need for language teaching or not. Then, in Stortinget – that’s healthy – one can well disagree with some given guidelines that the Stortinget draws up in relation to the teacher’s organisations. But there is not one teacher organisation or educator who has been in contact with this committee or former education committees, who has not stressed the need for mother tongue education to be a prerequisite if we are to succeed in achieving the objectives of the Great Britain and society that have otherwise drawn up in relation to the challenges we face. I would like to stress that some others – not least in the Advancement Party – should consider the sources from which a Storing Committee often draws its conclusions. I said it was a huge challenge. We have tried to meet it through a roll-call decision, and are now in a trial project with a free-of-charge short-term kindergarten in a particular district of Oslo. The reason for this was precisely that we saw the need for Norwegian training to be started earlier than in the compulsory primary school. What that project will lead to, nobody knows yet, because it has recently been established. But there was at least a clear thought behind it. I am pleased that the message is based on the principles that the Storting has drawn up before. I can see that there is nothing significant other than previous landfill treatments, evaluations, etc. which the Government here is taking up and leading to the Storting. There is therefore a broad political consensus on the communication – apart from the Progress Party, which has a very separate channel in this matter as in all other issues related to immigration/integration. That's why I'm very disappointed, but not surprised that the Progress Party is now pulling child protection in the way that these guys are doing. We have health centres in Norway, we have preschools, etc. which has the task of catching up both the things that need to be corrected and being bonded to the parents. I'm glad that the inter-political consensus that is in Oslo also applies in the Storting. The Progress Party in Oslo, together with the Right, Labour Party, Left and the other parties – except SV, which will go a little further – is in line with the right to language teaching. At least in Oslo, I hope that we will continue the part that the City Council has pulled up, and that the Progress Party will continue to be active with it and look at parent language education as a tool for learning Norwegian. That key still has to be in the door until we've managed to get so far that mother tongue teaching can be much more pronounced down in primary school. But it's not relevant today, when the number is as high as it is. It is difficult to take a debate related only to parental education. In the issues that some have addressed here, it is clear that Norwegian adult education is also involved, and there are so many areas. But at least I am pleased with the consensus that lies in what the majority is behind in the vote, and also the government's handling of previous decisions here in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e752	Today is an important day for training for linguistic minorities. The role of the parent target in training has been debated and further clarified over several years. At this time, there has to some extent been a lack of certainty and tension in the development of this area, both in municipalities and schools and in elephants. The student group is very composed, and there is a lot of concern about how to shape the training provision for students. The size has not previously found that it has led to a sufficient basis for decision, and asked for more information about research and experience from other countries in order to take a stand. This message is a response to this. In view of the rather long period of time when the situation may have been somewhat unclear, it is important that the Stortinget should now clarify a number of relationships with the parent language training of language minorities in the lower secondary school. I am particularly pleased that there is such a big deal in the Stortinget on the principles and actions of the government's message. Not least, the case spokesman should be very commended, and I share the humble approach angle that the representative Rune E. Kristiansen just now had to the problem area itself, to how extensive and difficult it is, but also how important it is. The notification suggests that it is necessary that the elephants from linguistic minorities learn to function well in Norwegian. It is an overarching goal for students to have access to further education and work in line with the students who have Norwegian language as their mother tongue. I have noticed that a collective committee is united in this overarching goal. Furthermore, my committee majority, all the non-participating members of the Progress Party, that mother tongue training and bilingual education provide the basis for good Norwegian training. The majority stress that it is important that children from minority groups are proud of their own cultural background and that training in their own native language helps to highlight the personal cultural background and to strengthen and develop their personal identity. The majority also believe that it is important for the Norwegian community that there are people who master different languages and who have a good knowledge of other cultures. The wide availability of this information in Stortinget gives important signals to the municipalities to follow up on this in practice. The government has stressed that the primary language training in the basic school should be more targeted. Students are not well-managed enough to follow the usual instruction, to receive such training, and a curriculum shall provide guidance for its content. I would like to stress here that this curriculum will apply to the entire childhood, as a number in the Committee would like to see. Parental education shall assist students in further development and education in Norway. Attention is paid to the close link between the training of the mother tongue and the training of the mother tongue. Municipalities shall be able to combine native language training, bilingual training and specific Norwegian training with a view to providing a holistic provision for the benefit of the student. Parental training shall not interfere with other training. The message makes it clear that municipalities are not able to choose their native language training on a general basis. As today, one needs to assess the situation of the individual student. Based on experience from Norway and other countries, the Government believes that there is a greatest need for maternal education in the first four years of elementary school. However, the supply may extend over the first seven years where necessary. Bilingual training should be provided for a transitional period until the pupils are able to follow the usual training. In addition, maternal targets may be given as an option in the youth field where this is practically possible. Equivalence of training shall be ensured through the framework conditions set by State governance, i.e.: curriculum, economics and learning outcomes. Responsibility for organising training and finding good practical solutions lies at local level. The Ministry will stimulate municipalities to experiment and develop to find new, better and perhaps untraditional models for the organisation of training. The current add-on scheme will be continued in the school year 1999-2000, but changes will be made from the 2000-2001 school year. The focus is on simplifying the system, with more targeted and effective use of funds. I have noticed that the entire committee wants measures that could lead to as many of the native language teachers as possible having approved teacher training. Some measures are now being followed up in the department, and I will come back to other aspects of this in the message of teacher recruitment, as the majority in the committee wants. I have noticed that there is some difference in the Committee's view on the use of the active substance. Right does not want separate regulations to be given to municipalities on the obligation to provide language training, while the Socialist Left has desired to legislate an individual right to language training. Training laws already provide an opportunity to provide regulations. Right doesn't want curricula, while Socialist Left wants curricula for all classes. The majority are in favour of a mother tongue curriculum at the nursery and a mother tongue curriculum as an optional language at the youth level.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e775	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e778	The main difference in this debate is between the Progress Party and the rest. It becomes clear that the Progress Party stands for a number of positions and positions that give rise to horrific associations. Here it's not the individual who's in the center. This is an opportunity to promote the overall misunderstanding of the integration policy of the Progress Party, where the aim is clearly to strengthen the rapprochement of the Progress Party in the polls and at the municipal elections for the autumn. The case-rapporteur, Mr Tingelstad, also made a proper settlement with the Advance Party, and the case-rapporteur, Mr Tingelstad, underlined in the change of line that with this message and the treatment of the Stortinge, the State undertakes in the future to give equivalent amounts to the teaching of the mother tongue. And the government council is nodding. In the course of the discussion of the year's budget, it became known as a settlement between the Centre, the Advance Party and the Right. In this agreement, the subsidy was reduced. 221 entry 65, Grants for training of linguistic minorities in primary school, of 20 million. kr. This item covers, inter alia: grants for training in Norwegian as second language for linguistic minorities and grants for native language training. My question to the Council of State Lilletun will then be whether he will stand by this message and the representative of Tingelstad underlined in his article. Would the Council of State Lilletun be the necessary guarantor for the government in budgetary negotiations until the fall if a situation arises where Carl I. Hagen requires to reduce the country's grant for language minority training in primary school?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e787	In 1997, grants were paid for specific Norwegian training and mother tongue training for approx. 450 million. kr. About two thirds went to adapt Norwegian training and one third to native language training. It is presented in the message. The Progress Party proposed in the debate on the 1999 budget to remove the Parental Training from the autumn 1999. After their calculations, it amounted to $94 million. kr, which may seem like a reasonable good estimate. Reduction in the budget agreement of 20 million. kr is, among other things, a result of expected consumption in 1998. The 1999 grant is equivalent to 609 million. kr. Norwegian training funds shall cover the expenditure on Norwegian as a second language and other specifically organised Norwegian training. That's why it's not the way it compares that gave the poorer or less supply to some elephants in the backbone. This is the case, that a regulated scheme was corrected in relation to the consumption that the doctor had before the year before. That is why I can guarantee the representative of Konglevoll that the Government will be the guarantor of the message as it stands before Stortinget. The government is very grateful and happy that the Storting ends up so wide about the intentions of the message, and from the Government's side, it will not be planned to cut when it comes to the realities of teaching, but a rule-based system must, of course, be adapted to the resulting consumption.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e794	Most people share the good will to do something about the language training – we have discussed this earlier in the debate. But the questions I've asked before, which I want to repeat to the Council of State, are: Is it really necessary to fix this? Does not the Council of State have the confidence in the individual schools and municipalities that they will do what is best for the students and the individual schools, regardless of new state regulations? Is it really necessary to have your own curriculum in this subject? Is the Council of State in agreement with the Right that parent language training is primarily a hub to acquire Norwegian and other subjects in the basic school, or does mother tongues in the basic school have a self-esteem in addition to this, as it is our role to prioritise rather than other measures? Is it the case that the Council of State believes that parent language training for individual groups is more important in the adapted education than other measures for groups that we know have a very great need to get some extra help in areas where they are weak – it can be linguistic, it can be read and write problems, it can be other areas of problem? Or share the views of the Council of State representative, that all this is so important that we do not have to give priority – we must have everything? I found the last sight a little difficult to swallow for me as a Right-Man. We may or may not like that, but in school policy as in other areas, we are forced to give priority, and then something has to be put ahead of or behind other things. I want the views of the Council of State on this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e801	Sometimes politicians use harsh words. I do not agree with the representative, Mr Løvik, that there has been a lot of that cork in the message or in the debate today. In fact, one has a monthly audacity in relation to a difficult problem area, for which a seeker to find good solutions. What I would also like to say is that the Right Party and the Progress Party have had one breakthrough, and that is that we have tightened up and taken away a number of arrangements that have been unnecessary – where those who know Norwegian have received native language training that has in some way contributed to creating poor attitudes to the native language training in general. That's what I thought one of them would notice. On the other hand, we have found that it is important that we ensure a minimum supply. This is why we have found it necessary to adhere to all the professional recommendations – mainly all the professional recommendations – that there are slightly different views. The documentation in the message shows very well that mother tongue training provides added value when it comes to Norwegian knowledge, and the Right and Government agree that Norwegian knowledge is actually the basis for coping with society. Then you can always discuss which one must have of the central leaders, and what should be local freedom of action in relation to it. I'm not going to say that we always find the right line. But when it comes to these groups, which are of those who are the hardest to cope with in Norwegian school, the government is dependent on us ensuring the supply, as we have done here, through a municipal duty. At the same time, we have put up flexible solutions that I believe the municipalities think they can live well with.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e808	I have noticed – and the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has also done so on behalf of the Progress Party – that it has become a significant tightening, that it is no longer a fact that if a Norwegian woman or a man is married to a foreigner, their children are to have language training in school. It's one thing that's irritated and that we've felt has been reasonably unnecessary. We are pleased that this will end now. But when the Council of State says that the mother tongue provides a good basis for Norwegian training, I feel that he bites his tail a little. We have many immigrants in this country with excellent mother tongue skills who have lived here for many, many years and who actually don't know much Norwegian so they can teach their own children so that they are bilingual when they start school. I cannot understand that knowledge in native language is that of a citizen because they can speak Norwegian fluently after a time. In addition, I would like to point out a case and ask a question in this connection that is entirely justified. When we talk about the closure of small schools in Norway and the earmarking of funds to manage the maintenance of these schools, the Council of State has repeatedly pointed out that these funds cannot be earmarked because of municipal autonomy. However, in terms of mother tongue training and funds for this, municipal autonomy is no longer particularly important. I would like the Council of State to clarify this relationship a little bit more.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e815	When it comes to the immigrants who are here, who can have their own native language, but not Norwegian, it's an example that the mother tongue doesn't work. The difference here is that when you have a methodical native language training, where a teacher learns how to manipulate, manipulate and formulate, how to use the language in a school drop-down, it gives a completely different learning outcomes. Once again, I would like to remind you of what some have said in the debate, that the message this time refers to the fact that there is a lot of evidence through extensive international research, that one has had training in its native language. So here I have to say that I would like to say that one did not overlook what is so well documented, but that one in which case pointed out what is wrong with the documentation, and I have not heard that yet. When it comes to the representative, Evje, who says he is ringing in relation to the cross-sectional spheres, I have not recorded that the Progress Party has generally agreed to abolish the income system with the transfer to the municipalities as it is today, but that one has been willing to depart from it on a case-by-case basis. What we're doing here is imposing an obligation on municipalities to provide mother tongue training so that immigrants can benefit from Norwegian education, even if it also has a self-esteem value. There is a difference between giving direct ear-marked take-offs to review local authorities' decisions in relation to the school structure. It's a shame that cross-country clubs are closed down, but at the same time, I don't want to take the right to take the final decision, but I want to change the criteria so that it won't be too tempting to put down cross-country clubs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e824	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e829	First, let me ask the Council of State to send the documentation he now referred to from international research that it is better to learn another language before learning the language of the country in which you live. Such research is unknown to us, so we would appreciate getting some copies of the evidence from the research council here points out that he has. It is strange that people who are Norwegian citizens who are going to have permanent residence in Norway, and are going to live here, who have children here, are going to learn a different language before learning Norwegian. We don't understand that. It must be quite natural and reasonable to focus from the very beginning on the fact that Norwegian is the language of Norway and that this is what needs to be learned. Then there are some who have tried to say that there is a lack of consistency in our attitude, for example. in the case of child protection. It is child protection which is the body to ensure that Norwegian legislation is followed here and that Norwegian parents fulfil their parental responsibility. We've never criticized that. What we've allowed ourselves to criticise are some things that we haven't understood why child protection has intervened and moved care from biological parents to someone else, and where we haven't been able to point out that there are really some defects that are understandable. That's what we've been criticizing. We have not criticized child protection for doing their job when they are going to do it. Clearly, there are many cases — too many unfortunately — where intervention is necessary, where parents do not have the necessary care. We've criticized the issues where it's impossible to understand why you've intervened. However, there should be some doubt in the Norwegian population that Norwegian citizens must have a duty to ensure that their children can speak Norwegian when they start school – it is clear that there must be a care failure by Norwegian citizens if they do not ensure that their children can Norwegian when they start school. And so we are alone in that vision! It's amazing. Here it's identifiable what's the care failure. When Norwegian citizens, or when parents with permanent residence and who plan to live here have children in Norway, it must be clear and easy to understand – and it is proven – that they fail their parental responsibility if they are unable to Norwegian. Fines are one of the things used, they are used against Norwegian parents if they refuse to send their children to school and rather want home education because they disagree. Then, of course, you must also be able to use it to others. There is no difference here between children of people with permanent residence in Norway and Norwegian citizens, regardless of where they originated. Then Rune Kristiansen tries to talk about the Advancement Party in Oslo being in favour of mother tongue training. Where did he get that? I think he might be able to provide documentation. We've checked with our fractional leader in the Church and Education Committee, similar to the City Council in Oslo, and we've followed exactly the same line in terms of native language training, but we've strengthened Norwegian training for some immigrants – including immigrant women.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e841	When the Education Committee has a hearing and representatives from the City Council and the City Council stress to the Committee a cross-political agreement – with few exceptions, RV and SV – on a teaching structure in Oslo for foreign languages, or also directly on the way in which the teaching of mother tongues is to be conducted, they have recommended to the Committee not to take action to change the consensus and model on which Oslo is based. That's exactly what I said in relation to. With regard to child protection and care failure, we could have had a long debate about it, and we will probably have it later, too, because I believe that the Progress Party will conduct several debates related to that part. With regard to what the representative Hagen has previously said about child protection, I have to say that I stand firm about what I have said about child protection is hardly the body that the Progress Party has previously used as a good tool in relation to the attitudes that are now in place with regard to immigrants. When the debate on immigrants comes, child protection is also reflected positively in the political assessments of the Progress Party. Finally, I understood that Hagen was just standing here and said that the committee would suggest learning the native language before learning Norwegian. There is an incorrect presentation, for the majority of the Committee suggests that parental education should be organised if the need to learn Norwegian is present. So it's a tool in Norwegian teaching, that's what the majority has put up to. At the same time, the Government in the Communication, which the Storting ends up with, has placed an obligation on municipalities to provide such education when the need exists. So what Hagen says, as I understood it, is that now mother tongue education is going to be the primary thing for immigrant children or children with immigrant backgrounds. The main thing is to learn Norwegian, the majority of the Committee has expressed its views and mother tongue teaching is to be used as a necessary tool when the need arises.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e850	The amazing thing in this case is that Carl I. Hagen obviously has not read the big message, because in the big news, the connection between mother tongue training, learning Norwegian and learning other subjects is documented. It has been documented through various research reports from Irish, American and Norwegian environments, as well as through the consensus conference organised by the Research Council. It's documented, and it's proven through systematic research, as opposed to what the representatives of the Progress Party here come up with, where they say they've noticed this, but then they go out on streets and fight and observe, and then they draw some conclusions. That has been said earlier by representatives of the Progress Party. And it's not research, it's not documentation. However, evidence is the systematic transposition and systematic processing of data. And it's documented quite emphatically in this big message. Clearly, it is desirable that the children who start school should be able to do as much Norwegian as possible. But we also know that Norwegian children who start school have different maturing. They have different knowledge. That's also the case with children from the immigrant community, and we have to take the consequences of that. Taking the consequences of it is taking inward what we know, the knowledge we have, and then putting up a training course where mother tongue training is also an important part, in order for these children to learn Norwegian, and in order for these children to learn mathematics and other subjects. That's what's in the vote from the majority, and that's also what SV has joined. We're going a little further on how long they're going to have native language training, because, in addition to being a tool specialist, they're going to help develop the identity of their children and help raise their cultural background.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e859	It is a pity that a lot of children start school without being able to Norwegian. There is a need for better cooperation between governance and parents in order to improve that situation. That's why it's also important. start language teaching in connection with a kindergarten project that we expect to be excited about. But what I said, and which I stand by, when it comes to documentation, is pretty much in line with the representative of Reikvam. Of course, we can provide all of the reports quoted in the Storing Message. It is a holistic language training which also provides a better exchange in Norwegian. Of course, the representative Carl I. Hagen and the Progress Party may disagree in that research – and there are some examples of researchers and there are some examples of people from the environment who believe the same as the Progress Party – but the vast majority say that the parent language teaching is an important basis for better Norwegian training. That's why there should be a common interest in us. So to this end, the obligation for parents to teach Norwegian children should trigger fines: there is today one basis for parental fines in the primary school, and that is when parents keep their children away from compulsory comprehensive schooling. It has never been suggested that child protection should be able to impose fines because one had not learned enough in relation to other areas. That's what's especially new, which is surprising, and which is disappointing. I mean, here the Progress Party is going one step towards stigmatizing parents from the immigrant environment in a way that doesn't stigmatize Norwegian parents. When there is a good documentation, and both the Progress Party and the plural here are agreed that Norwegian is the best basis, this should be a skinbat, and I wonder if there are any other reasons than the wish that the students should learn well the Norwegian language on which this debate is based.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e870	I'm not going to put myself in the debate on fines to a particular extent. But to fine foreign or Norwegian parents because for some reason the kids have problems with the Norwegian when they start school, I thought I might be a little on the edge. What made me ask for the word now was three relationships. The first is something the Council of State said in its answer to Ursula Evje. As I see it, the Council of State said that learning the mother tongue methodically at school and using the language is much more important than being able to have the mother tongue from before. I was a little shocked that one might say that there's not enough of that, but the way one has learned it, in order to get it in systematically – Irgo we have to have more in either they can speak or one. If I perceive it correctly, I thought it was a little doubtful. I would like the Council of State to deepen it. I have asked several questions to the Council of State earlier today. The two most important ones he wasn't in, and I understand that because he didn't get the time, so I hope he can get another chance. The grievances of the Council of State are in agreement with the Right that the training of the mother tongue is primarily a tool to facilitate the acquisition of Norwegian and knowledge of other subjects in the Norwegian Base School. There's a little bit of a difference in the basic view of native language training. And in the continuation of it: does the mother tongue, with the problems it brings, stand in a special position rather than other important steps before appropriate training, which makes it necessary to fix regulations and own curricula? According to Right's view, there are as many other problems that single lives are struggling with. They don't get the custom training they need, which they should have had in other areas. We find it strange that a priority is a group that has a special event problem, rather than others in the way that the multiples now add up. I would like the Council of State — if possible — to reply reasonably to the two questions as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e883	The council said he wanted better cooperation between the authorities and the parents, because he agreed that there was a lack of Norwegian knowledge in some children when they came to school. In fact, he admits that the line that has been followed over the last 15 to 20 years to teach children by immigrant parents in Norway has been a total failure. Because it is true that parents who have been Norwegian citizens for 10 years still come to school with children who do not know enough Norwegian. It is this policy that you should learn Urdu or English before you learn Norwegian – to learn Norwegian – that has actually gone down. You can't say that we have any other agenda than to make sure that the children learn Norwegian, when we go in order for it to be Norwegian they will learn. Everyone else wants them to learn a different language first, to learn Norwegian, while we say that you should go straight to Norwegian. Then we say something that's completely normal in every other context: It's the parents we think are responsible for making sure that the children know the language of the country when they start school. There is then no need for cooperation between authorities and parents, because it is the responsibility of parents. It has nothing to do with the authorities. If we had followed our overall approach and made sure that all parents know that they have a duty to take measures that would allow the children to Norwegian before they begin school, and that they could possibly have consequences, in line with what happens if they do not follow up their duties in other areas, by meeting with fines or other measures that are already covered by child protection legislation, parents will from early on ensure that they take the necessary measures to enable the young to Norwegian. There is, of course, the absence of a comprehensive policy here. By telling all parents about the responsibility they should have, and that neglecting this responsibility can lead to positive, concrete results. After the introduction of cash support, many people have said that parents may not be able to send their children to kindergarten, because it is also beneficial to have them at home. It would be quite natural then to prevent it from having a fine of equivalent cash support, which meant that it was not economically reasonable and beneficial for parents not to take the action that is best for the small children to learn Norwegian, namely to be with Norwegian speakers. We have a whole policy, and everything we say is hanging on to it. It is good to note that although there are still major problems with children of Norwegian citizens born here, who cannot Norwegian enough when they start school – not liquid, as Marit Tingelstad said, you should be able to Norwegian enough – then you will continue the line that you can see around is a total failure. It would not have been necessary to talk about mother tongue training if all these children could Norwegian — which is the Council of States later as if he were also meant to teach them.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e898	I said in my first post that I was pleased that there is such a broad majority for the position presented today. Now I want to say that I am pleased that we have got this debate, so that we have been shown and documented where the political divisions go. I must remind you that the hearing bodies which were invited to the Committee consider that this communication is good, with some exceptions, inter alia. representatives of the minority groups and we have also received letters from them. It shows that, in their view, this message should go much further, while the representatives of the Progress Party believe that this has gone too far, that we have put too much emphasis on it. Then I feel safe that we are on the right track. In fact, there are restrictions on the groups to be trained as a parent. It is not obvious that children who have a parent who has Norwegian language as their mother tongue and a parent who has another language as their mother tongue will receive native language training. But I feel that the representatives of the Progress Party are on some thin ice when they also have parliamentary leader and party leader on the field to such a great extent. It should be easy for the Progress Party to look up pages 15, 16, 17 and 18 in the settings to find the research documentation that has now been requested. It is quite clear that the main emphasis of research shows that it is necessary and very good for children who have difficulty learning language, to master their native language before learning Norwegian. It has emerged here from the Progress Party that they will propose that child protection should be intervened. Then I ask: Should this also apply to parents whose children cannot Norwegian – because that is a very awkward concept? There are very many children who have difficulty in mastering Norwegian when they start school and who do not have parents from minority groups. What about them? Should the child protection also be in there, and should there also be a fine here? That's the consequence of what's being proposed here. As I pointed out in my first post, there is no correlation between what the Progress Party meant in the setting of the parental message, and what you mean here. There is a clear discrimination, which I have understood that the representative Hagen is strongly opposed in terms of policy in general.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e907	I want to grasp this documentation that several people here say is contained in the message. There is no adequate evidence for research views in this Communication. I would like to refer to another communication that the Committee had examined, which also referred to a research report from the OECD, and only a conclusion was drawn from the report. I took on the job of reading this report in English – as the only member of our committee, I think – and my conclusion was not consistent with that of the department. That is why this is not good enough. The representative Tingelstad talks about the main gravity of all research – what in the world is the main emphasis of all research in this area? It can be impossible, as the representative said, to document the various research reports mentioned in the communication and also referred to a consensus report. But that is what a consensus report is. That's what you agree with. That's what's part of the action mud, you get a total consensus because no one takes the burden of breaking out and having a different vision and being called racist, being thrown on and spit on, as we in the Progress Party have been for a number of years. As far as the State Council is concerned, it said that the Progress Party had not gone against funding in the schoolwork, that is not true. The Progress Party shall, at least once a year, promote its own proposal for a financing system, which shall amount to a single price per year. students, who have nothing to do with our framework funding approach. The Labour Party has even adopted it to some extent in the field of health policy, where they call input-based funding. But what is quite clear is that the framework grant is at least not based on a revised Agder model, after which the municipalities are very discretionaryly assessed. It's not even earmarked, so they can basically use it for whatever they want. In the case of a right for the parents, it is quite clear that all the rights that we human beings have at the other end result in an obligation. And I can't believe this is going to be so awfully difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e918	This is a bit of a strange debate to listen to, because what this is really a debate about is learning and learning methodology. I wonder to what extent many of us really have basic knowledge in order to be able to engage in a debate on what is good learning, unless we rely on the knowledge we get through research-based material. I don't think there's any particular doubt that what we have from research, quite unequivocally supports the majority's view here. Just to take two examples from Norwegian history. One is the search for a common sense. The fact that training was required in Norwegian from the first day of school was an assault on cohabitation because they thus lost the opportunity for basic training by getting it in a language that they themselves controlled, that is, Sami. We have another example: in Norwegian history there was a long period of training for deaf people, when the emphasis was placed on deaf people being as obedient as possible. This meant depriving the deaf of their own language, the sign language. Nor is there any doubt that this has led many deaf people to have far less knowledge than they would have had if they had received a training that respected the fact that they actually have a different native language. And to take this example of adequate training in Norwegian: Deaf parents will often have a very poor language of speech. What are we going to ask deaf parents about their ability to teach Norwegian as a language and language of use? In short, what we know a lot about is that language is strongly linked to basic conceptual training, and if it is lacking or poor, it has consequences for a lot of learning later. So to child protection. When I hear representatives of the Progress Party talk about child protection here, it is very difficult to keep order and follow along. It's going to be a mess that's hard to deal with. But now let's take the most basic and fundamental first, that here child protection is presented as a sanctioning body: fines and/or child protection. There is a completely different approach to child protection from that otherwise prevailing — child protection should be an aid body for the best interests of children. Finally, in terms of recriminalism, there are certainly a lot of people in these gangs who have a war experience background that we're all happy not to have, which is really much more important in that context than the very question of mother tongue.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e931	Rolf Rikvam has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e934	The policy of the Progress Party is not at stake. It can never go hand in hand when one shows such contempt for knowledge — contempt for systematic knowledge and systematic research. I accept that Carl I. Hagen has not had the opportunity to read the big message, but the representative Ursula Evje cannot have read it properly either. I have not talked about any consensus report at all – I have referred to a conference held by the Research Council, a consensus conference where the aim was to find a common view on, among other things. parent language training. They have then concluded as they did. This debate is really about human vision. It is desirable that students from linguistic minorities should be able to speak Norwegian when they start school. It is probably also desirable for Norwegian children to be able to trade, but we know that when they come to school, the degree of maturity is different. This is due, inter alia, to: different stimulation from home, and we can't start punishing parents if they give the children too little stimulation!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e941	First of all, Petter Løvik: it was a holistic language training I was talking about, that was my point. So ask Løvik if it's a tool or a particular subject. It is primarily a tool science in relation to Norwegian, but I refer to what Right has also been involved and said in the Committee on Own-Value Parental Targets in relation to identity and other developments. That's what I mean, as an addition – but it's a tool science. Your mother tongue training is the most important thing, so asked Løvik. No, it's not the most important, but it's so important that there's reason to make sure you get good Norwegian training. And that's whether there's a need for it or not, I've seen as if wesemja is going on in relation to the right. Then the representative Carl I. Hagen says that, in reality, the language training is a total failure because there are many parents who have not learned Norwegian. We can't say that. We don't have any reason to say that it's a total failure. I admit, and I said – and I have understood it so that the plural means the same thing – that there are many parents who are tired of the Norwegian language and have not managed to learn Norwegian until they start school. That's why we've been pasting things. kindergarten measures, and we're trying other things. It's not about a total failure, but it's a problem -- we recognize that. The representative Hagen says that then we have to use child protection, as we do otherwise. What is the reality? In the case of many families – ordinary Norwegian families – who are struggling with some problem, a prevention measure is introduced in relation to child protection. But I ask Mr. Carl I. Hagen to tell me if ever he has suggested that a fine be imposed if the measures are not implemented. That has not been proposed. It's where something completely new is introduced. I hope that the representative Hagen cleans up this and says that one hadn't thought it that way, that it's a misunderstanding. Then, in relation to the representative Ursula Evje, I am sorry that I said what I did about the framework transfer. Of course, it's quite right, as she says, that a price is a price. Well, relative to school development, there's a lot of things to say about it, but it's not possible in 30 seconds. But I said it was wrong there, and I'm sorry about that. But then finally, the representative Carl I. Hagen said: as the Council of State «leaves». I'm asking the representative Hagen to assess whether it's a good idea to keep it standing, if he really thinks so. For me, it is important that everyone learns Norwegian. I also believe that it is important for the representative Hagen. We are yelling at a part of the work, but he must not say that I am “letting it”. At least I mean it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e957	There's starting to be a certain temperature in the debate. State Council Lilletun pointed out in his previous post that there is some research that shows the same thing as the Progress Party believes in this matter. It is then regrettable to note that this is almost omitted in the wholesale message. I have several times in the past been concerned with the practical results of a community in which we have language training, and with a study presented in School Focus No. 1 for 1999. It is called ‘Aspectors for the implementation of Reform 94’. Two thousand students have been followed for three years through secondary school, one thousand Norwegian and one thousand bilingual or foreign language students. After the second year of this survey, the following results were obtained: Among the bilinguals, 171 fell out and 203 remained on the basic course. Among the Norwegians, 129 fell out and 107 remained on the basic course. After the third year, the result was as follows: among the bilinguals, 223 fell out and 73 continued on the basic course. Among the Norwegians, 150 fell out and 35 remained on the basic course. These are clear and clear results, which should be very discouraging to all of us. Reimbursement and child protection are a central theme of the debate here. I guess it's almost an attack from the Progress Party on the immigrant parents. It's not. It's a strict measure, I'd like to admit it, but it's not for bullying immigrant parents. It is the consideration of the children that is the most important for the Advance Party. If parents do not teach their children the language spoken in the country in which they live, it is dramatic. If you don't learn the language, it will inhibit your child's development and become a problem both at school and in social situations throughout your childhood, among other things. in high school and when to go to work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e968	Carl I. Hagen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e971	I'm going to regret to the Council of State that there fell out a word in the sentence that referred to his previous post, and it was to his previous post that I spoke to myself, that the Council of State's interest in teaching Norwegian children was the only interest. It was the only word that unfortunately fell out, as the Council of State also confirmed in its last post, where he admitted, and pointed out to that committee that it is also to strengthen the identity of minorities themselves. That's what I forgot to add, i.e. you have two purposes for the language training, and not like us, who say that when you're learning Norwegian, that's what Ulf Erik Knudsen just said, for the sake of children's future lives. Yes, fines are new, and fines have been made because in the debate after the introduction of the cash support, it has been found that some immigrant parents may have a negative attitude towards having their children in kindergarten. It is in this context that we have taken the logical consequence, namely to remove that incentive by providing a fine equivalent to the cash support, so that the children can still go to kindergarten and learn Norwegian.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e984	Rune E. Kristiansen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e987	I would like to recommend to the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen and the Progress Party, who has such care for children of immigrants or with migrant backgrounds, to stop using the term ‘ethnic Nordics’, even if it is in quotation marks. They may forget that if they try to cover up at the same time with an apology that it's for the benefit of the children. I don't have any faith in that when they express themselves the way they do. Care failure, said Carl I. Hagen. I also think we should admit a certain humility in relation to what kind of offer grown-up immigrants have received from Norwegian training here in Norway. It's only now in recent years that we've taken that problem seriously. We therefore share a shared responsibility with that group, which in turn has an effect on children who are not Norwegian when they start school. There are several terms that we're talking about here. Now, when you make a number and draw up a debate on the penalisation and use of child protection, I see it as part of an election campaign strategy, and I would also like to say that I am very pleased that the Workers' Party is not involved in the cash support agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e996	The only thing we seem to agree on in this regard is that the immigrants have to learn Norwegian, and they have to be able to master the Norwegian language in such a way that they do not clearly stand out in school, kindergarten, work life or in the store when they buy food. In fact, there are still other shops in this country than immigrant shops. The representative Rune E. Kristiansen said in his first post that this was the teacher's organization's view of language teaching, and that it must be right because the teachers are educators and know what they're talking about. It's a lot of possible they're educators, but that means they know what they're talking about, I'm not so sure. So the representative, Konglevoll, said that the Progress Party has forgotten to focus on the individual and that we are pursuing a misunderstood integration policy. It remains to be seen. I think it suggests that our policies may be more correct than those of the others. In terms of our way of describing the Nordics, it's just an attempt to distinguish who after a while has received Norwegian citizenship, which comes from outside, and who, in the light of generations, has got it because they go under the name of the Norwegians. It also applies to the same people and women, I think, although these want to be talked about in some other way. With regard to fines and child protection issues, as a former member of a child protection department in a municipality, I would like to say that child protection council members do not necessarily have to be unambiguously negative. They can also be very positive when they act as a tool, as a worker for parents in relation to problems, and not just those who work against them. In fact, the fines we're talking about are already in place in Trøndelag in connection with the Moscow case. There you are now entering a law court because the municipality is refused to enter and control the homes of two families without any legal application. And if you can put on two families who want to teach their children at home, $50,000 each in a fine to shut down a municipal official, you also have to be able to do that when it comes to checking that children of immigrants are teaching Norwegian.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1009	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2360]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1023	It is a unanimous committee that recommends the approval of the decision of the EEA Committee to include Norway in the fifth EU Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development. So this is going to be a very short article. I just want to point out that the Stortinget already decided on 20 April 1998 that the Government had to facilitate Norwegian participation in the fifth framework programme. The decision occurred before the Storting knew the full content of the framework agreement or all the economic consequences. To this end, the Government has followed this up by including the members' contributions in the 1999 budget, which the Stortinget has also adopted. The decision in the Grand Duchy took place on the basis of the evaluation carried out by the Norwegian Research Council in the context of the fourth framework programme. One highlighted here particularly as positive that the Norwegian application came out well compared to other countries’ projects. Furthermore, the Committee gives the reasons why it now wishes to approve the decision of the EEA Committee, that further participation in research cooperation with the EU will increase international involvement in both research institutions and businesses in Norway and enhance the quality of Norwegian research. It will also help to profile Norwegian research more internationally. The Norwegian contribution to this Framework Programme is significant. It's only going to be 1.8 pst. of the programme's budget, but over the four years it actually means up to NOK 2.2 billion. There is therefore a significant investment in Stortinget today, and Norwegian research is now given opportunities to exploit it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1038	We also agree that we should be part of this fifth framework programme. Nevertheless, we should perhaps spend a little more time problemating some relationships, because our participation is not unconditionally unproblematic in our opinion. The Research Council has recommended further participation. They have carried out an evaluation of previous participation and concluded that this is in favour of Norwegian research. We're spending a lot of billion on it. It is likely that Norway will participate with about 50 % of the total population. 2 billion kroner in this five-year period. The Research Council has shown that in the past we have received almost the same amount. This framework programme is somewhat wider than in the past. There are four themes, and there are also three cross-cutting projects dealing with the same themes. That in itself is good, and I think that is an advantage for, among other things. Norwegian research environments. It'll be easier to search, there'll be more opportunities for participation, I guess. But seeking and getting hold of this money is a complicated matter in many cases. It's a bureaucratic process, which many people refuse in some contexts. We're also going to be concerned with that piece. Although we get involved in a comprehensive programme, some research environments, some businesses, can be excluded because the processes are complicated, there are bureaucratic things to do before reaching this bag. I also think it is important to stress that this should not be just a bag of money. When we first decide to join this framework programme, it should also be an objective that Norwegian research communities establish closer contacts with research communities from other countries. The Communication comments that participation could be easier for Norwegian companies and that we should stimulate Norwegian companies to enter and try to participate in these programmes. I'm probably a little less optimistic than the government is in the big news. I'm probably reasonably concerned that it's not that easy for Norwegian companies to get funds, to get involved in projects. One of the main problems with our business structure is that we have a lot of small businesses. We know that the research in these companies is small, and it's a goal to stimulate it. But I'm probably not as optimistic as the government when it comes to getting this done, so I guess it gets a little heavier, the established research environments that will still benefit from this and get involved in different projects. It is a goal, a wish, that Norwegian companies also participate in this in a stronger way than what was done in the past, but there is reason to problem our participation to a greater extent. I feel like someone's taking something easy on it, and it's partly because we know that we're pouring in a certain number of billions of dollars, and we're going to get the same thing pretty much again, and then it's pretty much a pleasure. It shouldn't be that simple.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1051	Now I don't think in general that there is a lack of problematisation that is our main problem, but I'm going to give the representative Reikvam right in that in the previous round, when we adopted the fourth framework programme, there was considerable concern in part of the Norwegian research community, because one was afraid that it would go beyond the Norwegian research, and one was in doubt if one was going to get its share. The evaluation summary shows you first that it is not just the heavy environment. I can learn that, for example: the regional research foundations — several of them — have been heavily involved. What you also see here is that one actually does not just get the same amount, but one comes close to the research front. And being close to the European Research Front is fundamental to Norwegian research. I just want to say that I am happy that the Government and the Storting share the view that we should join the fifth framework programme, and that it is important for us to be a heavy player in the international research community. Then we must help in our place so that it is the optimism of the Government, and not the pessimism of the representative Rikvam and SV, who is going through.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1060	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2361]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1076	The Theological Faculty of Society has a strange way of recruiting scientific personnel. The positions don't light up, the ones to be hired are being called. This very special type of employment has so far, among other things. led to the fact that not a single woman has been called to teach the Theoretics of the Faculty of Publicities. There are probably three female fellows there, and in terms of the practical theological seminar, there are a few women employed. There they have the strange rule that male students can ask for exemption from practice with female students. One can certainly say that this school is organized in a very special way, which is not consistent with the practices of an open and democratic society. At our other universities and colleges, a system where people are called or hand picked to positions would be viewed as ethical and legally irresponsible. This would lead to strong protests from other qualified people who could compete for the positions. What happens otherwise is that the jobs are published so that anyone who thinks he is qualified can apply. Then a separate committee with the most qualified professionals will be set up to assess the applicants. Their assessment and conclusion are made known to all applicants, who then have the opportunity to make their comments or protests. Of course, it should also be at the Faculty of Publicities. One might wonder why they want employment to be done by calling arrangements rather than by normal open-ended procedures. In this way, do you want to avoid qualified candidates who, in the view of the Faculty of Publicities, do not ‘fit in’? Another question is whether, in such a narrow process, they are able to obtain sufficiently qualified candidates for job vacancies. According to information from the Faculty of Public Health, approx. 70 pst. of the newly educated theological candidates from there. The faculty's teaching staff are involved in training a majority of the priests in the Church of Norway. This means that there is even greater reason to be concerned about the recruitment practices of this university. The state pays most of the school's expenses, and in my opinion it is important that this school also follows normal recruitment procedures with a call, and that they add those who are the most qualified. It is the Board of Teachers at the School that issues a call on a proposal from a recruitment board. The Board of Directors shall make the final appointment. The Governing Board shall be chosen by the Board of Directors, composed of five members. The board of directors is the highest body in the school and consists of 21 members. Of the members of the board, elected for nine years, the third party expires every three years. But what's strange about the mindset is that they choose the new members themselves, so it's a self-supplementing selection. It reinforces the image of a closed and undemocratic institution. Before Christmas, the government gave the school a gift package of five scholarship positions. Half of the posts were created at private colleges. The other five went to BI. In their application to be awarded the posts, the Faculty of Education stresses that they will publish the posts and that applicants and projects will be assessed for quality. They further state that they assume that the call could further stimulate competition among the applicants. They say nothing in the letter of application that addition will take place according to the call mechanism. However, the call text states that the addition will be made in accordance with the call scheme of the Community faculty. This has not been informed by the faculty, and I believe the Council of State should take a closer look at this relationship and, if necessary, withhold the positions if they maintain their practice of employing them under the call system. Well, the positions are displayed in this particular case, and it was just supposed to be missing, but still you have to call people to these positions. What does that mean? Are not the five most qualified applicants who have the best projects to be added? I assume as a matter of course that the posts paid by the public must follow the accepted recruitment procedures. When the Faculty of Public Administration uses a call mechanism, there may also be justified doubts as to whether the best projects are the most qualified applicants. It is also interesting that the Council of State has chosen to award a total of five scholarships to the Faculty of Association. If the intention of these positions was to build up competences outside and thus relieve the public institutions, it is striking that he chooses an institution located in the middle of Oslo, only 500 m from the state's own educational institution University of Oslo. This grant package for the Faculty of Education also comes at a time when university funding is actually cut, so that a number of faculties have to keep recruitment positions completely or partially available in order to balance the budget. What's my concern with this interpellation is to put the spotlight on how the Faculty of Public Affairs organizes its employment matters in particular, and I hope that the Council of State can now give me an answer that shows that he is also concerned about this, and that you will propose changes here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1119	Addition after calling has long traditions at universities and scientific colleges. Traditionally, this range is used when a qualified person is assigned to a position in a scientific position without the job being exposed. The basis for calling a person to a position is usually that you are looking for a very special competence with very few people in it. The main rule for universities and higher education institutions is that additions should take place after publication. However, there has been an explicit exemption from the law on state officials in order to be able to participate in teaching and research settings without disclosing the position when there are particular reasons. When a user uses the epitome of addition after calling at the Theological Faculty of Publicities, it has a slightly different meaning than the systems we have in the state sector. The cover-up call also has long church traditions. A person who is called to a position at the Theological Faculty of Education is called to a service at an institution with a special purpose. The call is based on the Bible and Church doctrine. Private universities are freer than state officials in addition matters. Private higher education institutions are governed by the Work Environment Act. However, contrary to what is laid down in the law on state officials and the law on universities and colleges, the labour law does not impose any specific requirements on the process before it is added. The Law of 11 July 1986 on the Law of Exams and State Grants to Private High Schools, Private High School, No. 53 which is the Ministry's basis for awarding diplomas and state grants to private higher education institutions. The law sets out some general requirements for regulatory governance and regulatory requirements in different areas in order to obtain the right to an examination or state grant. The Ministry does not have the legal basis for governing private institutions in addition to the private sector on conditions for the award of state and university grants. It is one of the authorities responsible for granting the right to an examination that the teaching staff of the private institution are at the same level as the teaching staff of the state colleges and universities. Law has no explicit rules on procedures for the addition of scientific staff. When private institutions use the position title professor, which is a protected title by law of universities and colleges, the assessment of the qualifications of essential institutions shall be the same in the case of private institutions as in the case of state institutions. It follows from what has been said that it is up to the theological faculty to choose whether a position should be published, as long as one remains within the scope of the laws of the working environment and the professional level is at the same level as the teaching staff at state colleges and universities. The Ministry does not have the legal basis for directing details of additions by private institutions. However, the Theological Faculty of Society has chosen to establish internal rules with a democratic internal process, which is well in line with the requirements laid down in the law on state officials. The procedure normally includes the following elements: the registration of applications and the preparation of search results professional evaluation and recommendation from the research selection department of the MF, which is representatively composed, and which also has a student representative, gives its assessment and recommendation to the Dean.The Board of Teachers makes its assessment and advises on proposals from the Dean.The Dean/Director/ HR Manager conducts search results. The representative of the student participates in the discussions.The director prepares an assessment and recommendation to the board.The board decides on the call on the basis of submitted assessments and recommendations. The available options should be released by default. Unnateke is a professor, principal and director. It is the board that decides on the call-out without calling-out to be used for other options. Whenever a position is displayed in which the controller will be called, this should be reflected in the announcement text. The faculty has chosen to highlight the five scholarships they have received. I have been informed by the Faculty of Publicities that they are carrying out a thorough assessment of the applicants’ scientific qualifications. In addition to the professional part, the Faculty of Education, in line with other institutions, must take care that those who are admitted to the positions should be personally qualified to act as teachers and guides to students at the institution. I have noticed that the Faculty of Education has established a system by adding that applications are handled in a professional body for the assessment of scientific qualifications, before being added to it by a reviewer like calling. The system established goes further in facilitating a democratic process than the one imposed by the Labour Environment Act. I cannot therefore agree with the representative Dørum that the addition to these five scholarship positions has no element of open competition. I think that the addition practices that are followed largely add up to open competition on a professional basis. I am not aware that questions have been asked at the level of the scientific qualifications of the Faculty of Education. The system established by the Faculty of Sciences therefore appears to take into account the fact that the professional level of scientific staff is to be in line with institutions governed by the Law of Universities and Higher Schools.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1174	As I perceived the Council of State's response, he said that the usual procedure for recruitment at the Faculty of Publicities was a call. Very well-known, there is usually no call, but it was now with these five scholarship positions. The positions had to be published for shame, because they are jobs paid by the State as a whole. They also made this very clear in the letter of application to the Department. It is possible that I have been misinformed here, but at least I am familiar with calling is not practice, it has only occurred in relation to these scholarship positions. So the Council of State says that ‘when particular reasons speak for it’, you don’t have to declare – you can call people jobs. Then I'd like to ask, what are the special reasons that the Faculty of Publicities has that they can call people jobs, not publish them and have a normal recruitment procedure? Is it that you don't want people who have been divorced or remarried? Is it that you don't want women? Are there such particular reasons that the Faculty of Publicities may have recruitment procedures that are completely different from those that are common at our universities and colleges? I assume that the Faculty of Education employs qualified people, but there is therefore no real competition when you call people into a position. When a job becomes vacant, all qualified applicants must be able to apply for a job, and then there must be transparency about the recruitment procedure, so that those who have applied know why they have not been employed and why it was preferred. It is necessary to be able to appeal against a decision. This is common practice in Norwegian society. How do you think the State Council would have reacted at other universities and colleges if you were to introduce such a practice as that of the Congregation Faculty? There's a recruitment board that picks out and evaluates those to be hired, and then it's the teacher's board that gives you the setup. The point is that those on this list have already been picked out in advance, so that you do not have the complete overview of who might have been interested in such a position.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1183	I expect the representative Dørum to agree that I will manage the Faculty of Publicities in relation to the law under which it is approved, i.e. the law on private high schools. I tried to do something for the required requirements. When it comes to the practice you have at the Faculty of Publicities, I want to repeat what I said in my first post. It's possible I didn't get it clear enough. I said that the Theological Faculty of Humanities has nevertheless chosen to establish internal rules with a democratic internal process that corresponds by far to the demands imposed by the law on the state's civil servants. The procedure normally includes the following elements: the registration of applications and the preparation of search lists and the recommendation from the departmentThe research selection of the MF, which is representatively composed, and which also has a student representative, gives its assessment and recommendation to the Dean.The Board of Teachers makes its assessment and recommendation on proposals from the Dean.The Dean/Director/Head of Staff conducts the search calls, but the student representative participates in the discussions.The Director prepares an assessment and recommendation to the Board.The Board decides to call on the basis of submitted assessments and recommendations, following the procedure for which I have done the right thing. The rule is that the available settings should be published by default, but independent are positions such as professor, principal and director. It is the board that decides on the call-out without calling-out to be used for other options. Whenever a position is displayed in which the controller will be called, this should be reflected in the announcement text. So the rule is that it's a completely normal procedure, as it is in state institutions. So it's a procedure that goes beyond what Norwegian law sees as a requirement, and I don't see any reason for a law to impose on a private institution that one has as a practice in public institutions. The reason why it is BI and MF that have been given the opportunity for scholarship holders is that it is the two institutions that are approved for their doctoral education, i.e. scientific recognition to the top. The scientific quality has one never doubted, and from that I believe that nothing has been shown to be wrong in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1219	This is a debate that can be attacked from many different angles. I find it strange that the Council of State is half surprised that this matter is coming up, when you know that the Faculty of Publicities stands for the old thinking in the religious directions in Norway – those who are not in a way and contribute to getting an open, inclusive church. With regard to the scholarship positions that have been awarded to the Faculty of Education, I will be allowed to ask some questions about that distribution. I accept without further delay that it is up to the Council of State to make this distribution, but I would remind you that, as far as I remember, the question is whether or not private should be part of this scheme, which the Council of State has promised to come back to. It is a matter that has not been resolved without delay. The attitude and thinking of private educational institutions in Norway is a bit clever. They shall be allowed to participate in all goods and in all economic arrangements in the same way as the public, but when we come to obligations, to governance and to the things that can be perceived as negative and as limitations of activity, the same rules shall not apply to the private as to the public institutions. Then they should be free and frank and be allowed to do virtually what they want. It's also a little odd that the Council of State is very concerned about strengthening the private institutions in the time we're in now. He has stated that he wants more private universities and colleges, and it happens at a time when many of our state institutions are struggling with both recruitment and gaining professionals for teaching and research. I think the most important thing we can do now is to strengthen the public institutions to enable them to meet the challenges that the knowledge society is giving us in the future. I remember very well that during this period we have had many ropes with the department on such a small matter as whether or not the state colleges should be allowed to teach assignments on a scale greater than ten weights. It was extremely difficult to get the Council of State on, but when it comes to awarding scholarships, the highest education that is possible at all, to private, he has virtually no inhibitions. I also think it is a little special that you so strongly defend the right of the Faculty of Publicities to employ according to the criteria that they would like to see. I'm not quite sure where the Council of State stands in a case with which one can compare it, but at least I know that many in the government parties and in the parties with which he cooperates are strongly attacked by the fact that the companies and institutions owned by the trade union movement are entitled to demand the professional organisation of their employees. It's about our bank and insurance and it's about the AUF, where many of Lilletun's friends are at least very concerned that there must be clear rules, and that there can't in any way be a self-employment practice for these organizations. When one comes to the private colleges, one has to protect them completely from any influence.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1230	Here you can almost get the impression that private colleges are almost sheltered enterprises, but that's not the case. However, what is interesting to note in the debate is how concerned the Labour Party is to highlight the moment of competition. And that's important! In fact, it is so important that the Progress Party has had it as its basic view for very many years. What makes it a little special when the Workers' Party now places particular emphasis on the moment of competition is that, in their opinion, the principle should be applied mainly to the recruitment of bishops and now to the employment of the Faculty of Association. But there are many more areas in which to apply this principle. However, what is important in this matter must be the quality of the training carried out. If special quality requirements are to be met by the employees in order to have the training angled as the Faculty of Publicities believes it should be angled in view of its way of interpreting theological questions, etc., they themselves must establish this quality mark in connection with employment. Whether calling is right or wrong in such a context, I don't feel called to respond now, but it's clear that the Faculty of Publicities is a private college with a slightly different priority and emphasis than the University has. The fact that we have two different educational institutions makes both students and employees have a real choice in relation to where they want to take their education, and it seems that the Progress Party is particularly positive. If the Faculty of Publicities, like a private college, were to be identical to the University, in our opinion, it might have been superfluous. With regard to this with applicants and quality stamps and which project is best, yes, we feel that it must be allowed to define the faculty itself. Good projects that are not defined as desirable for the Faculty of Publicities, you can actually go to the University with, and then you'll get them examined and researched there.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1239	I have to admit that I am not surprised that the interpellation is coming, but I am reacting somewhat to the representative Dørum's attempt to make the Faculty of Association a closed environment with a marked degree of self-recruitment. It's a private institution with its own traditions, but I think the applicants there, as well as what it's explained in the Council of State's response, show that there's the possibility of finding common ground there across the church spectrum. I really think the representative Norvoll put a little word on the commitment, because he said that the MF represents the old view of an open people's church. This is probably the main exposure of the representatives of the Workers' Party. This commitment appears to be based on some failing premise when the interplay text highlights that there is no open competition. As has been explained, there are application procedures for all posts except for Director, Vice-Chancellor and Professors. The Board of Directors decided in 1998 that positions other than these three, which I mentioned, should be published. This means that scholarship positions and teaching positions are otherwise advertised. Then the school has its own tradition of calling when added. We might be reacting to it, because it's not that common in form. But that there is no open competition, I feel a bit of a failing premise. The other thing I also think is important to maintain, is that the professional quality of those added or called is subject to good and normal assessment according to the academic tradition of scientific positions. Here I think the MF itself is very aware that they're doing themselves a bear service if they don't place crucial emphasis on quality and competence. From the Christian People's Party, we will in fact stress that it must be a democratic right for private institutions to follow their traditions, at least traditions based on the maintenance of quality requirements, and that this democratic right to rule themselves does not conflict with the possibility of state subsidies. We also do not want to affect the responsibility and right of a board to add. On the other hand, I am pleased with the Council of State's statement, where he says he will stand on the principles of the private college law of addition, and agree with his assessments about it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1250	The representative Norvoll made this part of a debate on private high-sphericals. That debate certainly gives us the opportunity to come back to it, but just to make it quite clear: it's the Right's view in the matter that we need the private spheres for a lot of reasons, and above all as a supplement, as an alternative and as a force for the public high-level system. There they do, including the Faculty of Social Affairs, in our view a very good and socially important job. So the general issues that the representative Dørum addresses in the interpellation. The faculty's call practices have existed since the faculty was established. So the relationship that the interpellant is dealing with is not new, and it's hard to see that something has happened in recent times that would make it topical to ask questions about whether MF meets the requirements that can be met for any reason when it comes to the professional quality of the learning skills. The situation, on the other hand, is somewhat different when it comes to scholarship positions, created and paid by the public. I would like to remind you that this question was raised during the budget debate in the fall, and that the representative Wohnning has also taken the matter up on a written question. The answer to that question was that the current system of allocating settings directly to the private sphere should be a test scheme until the Storting has dealt with the research message. For the Right, it is obvious that recruitment options must be the subject of open competition and that the applicant with the strongest professional qualifications is added. It is precisely this top priority that argues against taking grant shelters out of the national pot managed by the Research Council and instead making them available for some high-sphericals. This is particularly evident when it comes to private higher education institutions with adjunct rules such as aberrations from public institutions. But in the same way that others have been in the past, I believe that the Faculty of Publicities will also look for the satisfaction of the quality stamp we demand during this trial period. That being said, I just want to add from the Right's side that adding these rules to the add-on and recruitment settings does not mean that we have any need or reason to go into frontal attacks on the practice that you have followed at the Faculty of Public Affairs since the establishment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1263	It is an absolute step forward if it is right that the Faculty of Education decided last year that posts should be published. But then the question is whether they should be published internally, or whether they should be published so that everyone can have the opportunity to apply. What is also clear in the response of the Council of State is that it is the Governing Board that will decide whether to call someone to a post or whether to publish the post. As far as I know, there are only scholarship positions that until now have become bright. Let's assume that they will now be better at publishing positions, but in any case it is the board that determines whether or not the positions should be published. So the closed system can continue there. It is amazing that the majority of the population, based on the debate at least, think that it is all right not to follow normal recruitment procedures for an institution that educates most of the priests entering the Church of Norway and is mainly financed by State aid. Here's something that scorches hard at my discretion. If we had introduced this system at our other educational institutions, it would have created a storm of protests. I would ask the Council of State to deal with this with the Faculty of Publicities, and to ensure that there are orderly conditions there, so that it does not come into a special position in terms of undemocratic recruitment practices.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1273	First, I want to correct a public error from the representative Norvoll, who said it would be difficult to get the Council of State to approve more than ten weights in mission instruction. The truth is that while under the previous government it was not possible to change it, I suggested to the Storting for the first time I had the opportunity to increase to 30 weights, just to create flexibility in the public institutions. That's not exactly what the representative Norvoll said about it. Otherwise, I feel that there is a certain overtone all the time from both the interpellant and from the representative Norvoll – a replay about private alcoves and an attempt to make the private alcoves equal to the public. I think we need the private ones as a supplement, and then we also have to accept that they have different governance arrangements. But, of course, they are to comply with Norwegian law. Of course, both work environment and other legislation should be practised. I think it is good that the Faculty of Public Affairs has implemented a system that is quite similar to that of public practice. I agree with the representative Evje and others who have argued that it must be the quality that is always the test piece in relation to this. That is what is the basis of the law, and in this case the basis of the law. Clearly, one must also accept even tests in relation to quality. So I have noticed the many things that have been said in relation to the grant settings, that they are of course 100 pst. public funding must be managed in a special way during the trial period we are currently in. In the course of the debate, I have assured myself of two things. One is that the institution announces all the settings not only internally, but also externally, as close as the three I mention in my post. The second is that one has the practice in relation to the scholarship positions that are requested here. Then, of course, I would like to follow up on the fact that it is also being practised in terms of objectives and not just now on the road. We'll have the opportunity to come back to this. I think that what the Storting agreed to is that it should also be possible for private institutions to have this development capability, is a good arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1284	The interpellant debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1298	The youth has become the forgotten school team. In high school we have implemented reform 94, a reform to be evaluated during the spring. Reform 97 covers the entire primary school, but the main emphasis is on getting 6-year-olds into school. In addition, attention was concentrated largely on the new CRL subject. Youth was developed in the 1960s as part of an academic tradition. Youth is like a school battle characterized by the transition from childhood to adult learning venues. It has two main traditions: academic and vocational education. Youth is influenced both by the real school and the upper secondary school on the one hand and by the secondary school and the vocational school on the other. Some of the youth's problems have been finding their peculiarity at this point of intersection. In the competition between academic and vocational education and training, real school tradition may seem to have become a winner. The traditional academic values are strong. We see this more clearly when it comes to the forms of assessment. Teaching plan L97 is in many ways a settlement with the academic tradition. New forms of work and interdisciplinary approaches are being introduced. Practical working methods shall characterise the youth stage. The curricula are structured with common objectives for the subject, the dimensions of the main stage and the main elements of the class stages. In addition, it is clarified that 20 pst. of the time spent in the youth field shall be used for thematic and project work. The curricula are permeated by humanistic human vision. The plans are based on a knowledge vision in which students will learn what the plans require, and at the same time – and that is important – develop a critical view of what the school conveys. The plans underline the students' responsibility for their own learning. One shall focus on practical and adaptive working methods. Furthermore, these plans require close cooperation between teachers. Adapted training is overall the individual knowledge objectives. It's important to call unit school. The unit school is pressured by several teams. We see an ever-increasing proportion of private schools both in primary and secondary schools, and in secondary schools we see an increasing tendency for schools to take students into general education on the basis of grades. Oslo is also an extreme example, where one now creates a lower character limit for admission to the general field of study. This threatens the single school, it threatens the equivalent school provision. The single school shall be a school for the entire school of youth, a school with a common system of curricula which opens up too much local adaptation, with local learning material, and which provides room for each school and individual teacher in the choice of pedagogical method, a school which shall provide equivalent and adapted training to all regardless of abilities and assumptions. The L97 curriculum has been partially implemented. There are probably three steps to enter L-97 from the autumn of, and once completed, L97 has been completed throughout primary school, including early childhood. With L97, the framework for the content of the school is laid. Much is lacking in the physical working environment. We have schools that have facilities that are poorly adapted to the new plans with greater emphasis on project work and interdisciplinary. The physical work environment does not keep goals in many places. For example, the Children’s Ombudsman has estimated that there is a need for DKK 15 billion in investment costs to clean up schools and kindergartens — one should include kindergartens — in order to meet the requirements of the regulations on environmental health protection. Others have estimated that the investment need is approx. 10 billion kroner. However, poor indoor climate and poorly adapted premises cannot alone explain that there is great dissatisfaction among young people. There are major changes in the learning environment from childhood to childhood. Different research reports have assessed the impact of the transition from childhood to childhood on school motivation. Many people feel that the school is not adapted to their needs and that this has a negative impact on school motivation. This may be due to a number of factors. Youth schools are often larger than primary schools. Youth schools have a more bureaucratic character, they are managed in other ways, and they have more use of normative characterization. Youth is in a educational policy tradition with great emphasis on teacher control and discipline. Students have less participation, they have less influence on what's going on in the classroom, and learning often takes place in large classes. This tradition and this situation particularly affect students with the worst learning assumptions, and is de motivating to them. The key to a better school is to create a learning environment that takes into account the development of youth. Our task will be to stimulate schools to implement development measures, to apply new ways of organising training and, in particular, to facilitate the provision to those students who need more practical training to learn the theory. It is our job to stimulate schools to use curricula as intended, with great emphasis on project work and the thematic organisation of teaching. Every year we spend a relatively large amount of money on special education. It's money that the schools get on special application. This is a bureaucratic form of allocation of funds. And we know that there is a lot of resources in schools and in the PP service to explore students, resources that could have been used in a completely different way. It's important that we get a proper review of whether this is the right way to donate resources to the schools. When we look at the large amount that is being applied for, there's a reason to think that this is a more or less automatic way of trying to get more money for a school. It's an expression of the resource crisis in school today. So we should see if this is an appropriate way of allocating resources to schools. It is important that we now start different development measures, and that attempts are being made to organise the school day in different ways. The tests must include the practical organisation of the school day, the length of the school day, the division into hours and sessions, and one must test out alternative pedagogical methods in which the practical procedures are included as forms of work in traditional theoretical subjects. It's important that we start testing non-characteristic secondary schools. There's reason to believe that the characters very much control the teaching in the classroom. There's reason to think that they're leading the way the teachers teach, to a great extent. And it's important by trying out a system of freedom of character to try to see to what extent the characters control the teaching. At the same time, it is important that we also use such an opportunity to develop new forms of evaluation. We in SV think that if we're going to get the measures that we want, we're going to have to add some carrots, and we've suggested that. There are, as one would have seen, some suggestions from our side. I will wait until I have heard the answer from the Council of State before perhaps I take up the proposals. If he then replies to the most and I am very satisfied, we will of course not require voting here in Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1324	I think it is commendable that a focus on the youth ball, and I also thought it was a perspective-rich phase-in that the representative Reikham had on the interpellation. I don't share all of his solutions, but I think the main idea was exciting and interesting, and I'll come back to it more concretely. In addition to the 1990s, the Stortinget has undertaken important reforms for the whole of the school. Reform 97 means we've got a 10-year basic school with new curricula for all stages. In the 1997-98 school year, the introduction work started with 1st, 2nd, 5th and 8th classes. In the school year 1999-2000, curricula will be introduced at all stages of the year. The attention has been very focused on the 6-year-olds, as this was a new student group in the base school. The new class stage also increased the scope for operations and special opportunities for investment, so that the schools were able to receive the new students, i.e. the 6-year-olds. Although much of the attention has been focused on the 6-year-olds and the small school stage, I would like to stress that Reform 97 is about establishing a 10-year-old elementary school with new curricula for all stages. With the curriculum, the contents of the entire 10-year course shall be renewed. Of course, this also applies to youth. In the new courses, particular attention has been paid to adapting content and working methods to age trends. The emphasis has been placed on training, i.e.: the contents and methods of working, giving each main step of health and specificity. The hours for the subjects are now set as hours of the year, so that the time spent can adapt the activities in a flexible way at each step. Of course, this also applies to youth. The National Plan for the Development of Competence for Reform 97 covers the whole base. The priority for existing school years is to strengthen the skills development of young people. This priority will also be given to the allocation of funds for development work, dissemination of experience and continuing training in the field of education and training. The 1999 target includes: to increase efforts in the development of competence for assessment, professional competence and the use of ICT in training. In the development work supported by the Ministry, measures aimed at youth will be of particular importance. The «Entrepreneurship in education and training» plan has been continued in cooperation with other departments, the State Education Office and other cooperation partners. This is an important practical training measure that is not least important at the youth level. These actions will be done more closely in the message about the equivalent school provision that is now being submitted to the Storting. After Stortinget has processed this message, the Department will, among other things, ship to a national conference on the practical follow-up and further development of youth. The Ministry will also use other tools to bring about the changes introduced by the reform for youth: leaving school will be changed and adapted; the Ministry will also open up local trials with evaluation without the use of youth grades. Through the experiment, knowledge of how assessment without ranking through characters is influenced by motivation, professional effort, learning, well-being and cooperation will be taken into account. The Ministry has also pledged money so that the Barneombode can carry out four regional and a national hearing on youth in spring. The students themselves are to be heard in these rings. The Swedish development programme «Albatross» covers a total of 25 schools, divided by childhood, youth and secondary education. This programme contains few measures that cannot be implemented in Norway within existing legislation and curricula. In the case of incentives, e.g.: bonus schemes, I would like to point out the development resources that are already in the state budget in the form of grants for development of competences, dissemination of experience and development work in the core. In the interpellation, Rolf Reikvam, a representative, comes into several areas related to youth, which have emerged in the media, among others. dissatisfaction among teachers and elephants. It's a gloomy picture of the youth class being presented through the interpellation, but it's probably a little more nuanced. Several studies show that the vast majority of students enjoy the school. When it comes to teachers, Norwegian Teachers’ Teams conducted a survey of the members in the autumn of 1998. Here they were asked if they would be better or worse at work in the school after the introduction of Reform 97. 30 pst. said they're better, 14 pst. said they're thirty-two poorer, while 42 pst. said there was no difference. The study also showed that the majority of teachers believed that youth was not able to meet the challenges of Reform 97. In particular, it was highlighted that there was a strong need for better training in the field, such as: use of IT, project work, student assessment and issues related to the transition to further training. This documentation is also one of the reasons why the Ministry will step up its efforts towards youth. I have noted with interest the views expressed by the representative Rikvam in this interview, and I would like to say that the youth must be fully involved in the renewal that reform 97 represents. This will be a priority for further work on the ground floor. When it comes to the proposals that have been advertised by the representative, Rikvam, there are many of those that are interesting, but I think there are already grounds for doing so. He has taken up the organization of the school day and the character-free youth as an attempt. The test paragraph is attached and it is fully feasible to implement it. I have challenged local authorities to come up with suggestions for trial. I don't think we should tree such an attempt downwards on anyone. It's important that it's locally initiated. Alternative organization of the school day I have seen some examples of in the later period, among other things. in Eidskog, Hedmark. They've done it very well, and it's done within the current framework. I would like to mention this more closely in the big message that I have shown. When it comes to a private trial council, the OECD report on European education says that we have the most centralized school in Europe with the exception of Turkey. Then my intention is that we should try to initiate it primarily locally. That's why I have a certain skepticism for a central council. But I want to refer again to the message, where we have some thoughts about how we should strengthen the development work. I would therefore like to ask the representative of Mr Requam to forward the proposals. I promise that the proposals will be reviewed together with the proposals we have in the message from the Department and the Government, because I think there are a lot of things that are collapsing here. And then it's quite clear that this could be a bit more ambitious when it comes to economics, the representative Rikvam than the representative of the government – in that case it would be quite traditional, and I understand that the representative Rikvam would like to get it. However, I warn against asking for too much in relation to the revised national budget. What I think is right is that when we first start – and as the representative of Rikvam has taken the initiative to – to focus more on youth, the Committee will ask for these issues. Revised is not the location of this. It is now important that we link the proposals to the messages, and the processes around them, with which we are going to come, and which the Committee will have a good chance of dealing with. That would probably be my comment on the proposals from the representative of Rikvam.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1364	I'm sorry if I drew a dark picture of our school, and the youth in particular. It wasn't my intention, because there are enough people in this country who want to draw a picture of Norwegian school I don't agree with, which I think is unfortunate, and which can also help to seem self-enhancing negative. So it wasn't my intention to draw a dark picture. What I wanted to pull up was a back carpet, as I look at some of the problems that are especially related to the youth. And I spent quite a lot of my time praising the curricula, which I think is very good, and where the foundation is laid so that we can get an exciting, creative and good school throughout primary school. But the problem is that we have some traditions to struggle with, and we have to take them seriously. There were some of the traditions I tried to draw up, the academic tradition that stands there, hard, that is strong. It doesn't have to be unconditionally negative, but in relation to the curricula that we have that introduce other ways of teaching, it can be a bend. So that's how I see it, and the way we see it in our party, we somehow have to initiate some incentives. That is the purpose of the proposals, and I can now say that I am addressing my proposals – just so they have been said. It was very good in the Council's reply to me, for all intents and purposes, but I still feel that I want a vote on some of these proposals. What is the purpose of proposal No. 4, is not getting any large amount, but that in a way, we are doing good to introduce money into the budget to schools that want to initiate measures, different development measures, try out new educational ways, new ways to organise education, new ways to organise school day, and then they can apply for support from a state earmarked allocation to that kind of action. That was the point. I don't see a lot of hundreds of millions of dollars here, I don't do that at all. The amount I imagine should not frighten the Council of State or anyone else in this Chamber when we may get so far that we are going to propose a concrete amount in relation to the revised budget. I noticed that the Council of State will take action to try out a system of freedom of character. I think that's good. But what was my point, which I tried to get out in my proposal, and which is important to get out, is that we also have to run trials so that we get the opportunity to see how the characters control the teaching. It is in our proposal, and it is an important part of the proposal. There is reason to be concerned that the characters – as I said in my first post – control to a great extent what is going on in the classroom.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1375	Rolf Rikham has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1378	I have full respect for the fact that the representative, Mr Reikvam, seems to be able to evaluate these proposals, but I would ask him in a later speech to give room for action while at the same time considering that this should also be considered in the context of actions proposed in the coming message, so that we can have a constructive and wide-ranging debate. After such a short debate, it's a little small to have a very extensive in-depth discussion of the proposals. At one point I also feel a need for some clarification, and that is in relation to the proposal for special education. I understand the intentions of the representative, Mr Rikvam's proposal. But the reality is that there are professional assessments and individual decisions in the municipalities that trigger money in the municipalities. There is not a State-marked permissions; all single decisions locally triggering resources. And I think that if I had a sum of the funds and put it in the class, the whole class would have got a much better situation. I think that's what the representative of Rikvam's intention is. But here it looks like it's a government license, and it's not. Otherwise I will refer to what I said in my post. I think it's very important that the debate on the youth ball comes. I think it is important that the Committee and the Council are really offensive when it comes to discussing education policy over a new millennium. At the same time, I am very busy that the tests must be allowed to grow locally. There were positive things with the old Experimental Council, but there were also many things that never got foothold out. By travelling a lot – and I know that many of the representatives have done as well – I have found a lot of good attempts and ideas to try. I think that in a way, it's important that you put together and become birth helpers for them. Therefore, it is important that it is not the old Test Council that we come up with again, but that there is a development work that helps the local experiments, for a better school.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1389	All human beings are born with eagerness to learn and desire to know. Mastering and understanding are closely linked to self-maintenance. One might then wonder why much of the apprenticeship dies when the kids start school, in the very institution that is supposed to take care of it and feed it. Many of those who fall out of the school system have at least learned that they cannot learn. They've learned that learning is boring and difficult, and that they're stupid and short. An article in the newspaper of Mosse Jørgensen and Hans Christian Nes refers to sociologist Ola Staffeng, who in a dissertation has drawn up the background of our educational institutions for children, as we know them: large buildings with equal classrooms, schoolyard, recreation, children divided by age, defined knowledge material supplied in small chunks, control and grades. This system was created by Johann F. Herbarth about 1800 in the militaristic and bureaucratic kingdom of Prussia. It's this system that is the basis for our schools today, and it creates most of the major problems we're facing according to the article – and I think that's right. The system that in Herbarth's time only covered a small part of the children's lives, we've been working on until now, when the school takes most of the children's lives for 13 years. It is in my opinion time to renew the school based on the knowledge we have about growth and training. How to create a school that encourages and develops the innate learning and desire to know, and not kill it? How to create a school that gives teachers the opportunity to use themselves as whole people, not just postgraduates? The Workers' Party has already announced that we will have a 10-year plan for the development of the school, where we will especially look at the learning environment, including the physical conditions. Youth school is the school where the students are at the most difficult and vulnerable age, in the middle of children and adults, and we must pay special attention to this. I think, among other things, that it would be very useful for students — all secondary school students — to receive much more training in the workplace than is the case today. I will address the proposal that I have made on behalf of the Workers' Party: ‘The government asks the government to present a separate case on the state of primary education’. I would also like to inform you that we have no problems with supporting SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1409	Anneliese Dørum has taken up the suggestion she herself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1412	I am pleased with the attention that is now being given to youth through this interpellation debate. Youth is marked by the transition from childhood to adult learning arenas, with their two traditions: academic and vocational education. The debate on both Reform 94 and Reform 97 focused on different levels than the youth stage, but both had implications for that step as well. Interpellanten, the representative of Rikvam, is committed to strengthening the experimental activities at school. We need development work. Much exciting is already happening, but it is mostly about facilitating local development work, giving individual schoolleaders and learning self-confidence to work with the forms of work and learning environments. I fully agree with the description by the representative of the possibilities and potential of the curriculum. It's about putting it into use. The Christian People’s Party believes that there is actually a need for a new gift for youth. We need to report on the situation, but so much practical action. We are not going to get past a debate on the use of resources in youth, and it is a debate we are coming back to in the budgetary processes ahead. But in the main focus on youth, the students must be. The challenge is, how can young people get the skills, motivation and knowledge they need to deal with their situation? How can they acquire the knowledge they need from a lifelong learning perspective? The question is: how does high school have to be changed to contribute to it? Let me point out some concrete measures. We have to give the teachers confidence. It's about training and trust. Training must focus not only on subjects and subjects but also on education, the new forms of work and the new role of teachers. We need a local anchoring of the development work. The learning environment is growing out of classrooms today, and it's using the community as a learning resource. Thus, the main actors in the community environment must also be involved in the development of school and school content. We need to focus on active learning by using the possibilities in the curriculum. By thinking of entrepreneurship as a building goal for school activities, we can achieve a new balance between theory and practice and stimulate creativity and responsibility. We have to take the consequences of the new teacher role. From being a teacher to becoming a supervisor, new opportunities for interaction with the student are opened to make the student an active candidate in relation to the learning process. I like the interpellation. We need to continue the debate, because it's about the new high school. And I think we're going to have new opportunities to take this up, as we're getting messages forward, for example. on the national assessment system — that brings us back to these questions quite quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1425	I would also like to join those who are pleased that the representative of Rekovam is raising this interpellation, because the question is important. But if we can bypass some of the problems we have, by further regulating the school day, I'm a little bit more uncertain about. I would otherwise be allowed to refer to something that happened last week. And if I feel right, I have every reason to be startled: some of the members of the committee were visiting Moscow to study a joint school project between Norwegian and Russian schools. Some of you are giving me language problems, but it was actually said that there was greater freedom of choice in primary and secondary schools in Moscow than it is here in Norway. There were no perimeters there, someone said. I am still in shock that the Russians have a greater freedom of choice in their schools than we do in Norway. But let's do it. I think that instead of putting in a whole series of proposals to tie up what is already going on with Reform 97, it would be an advantage to have the entire curriculum phased in for all the seniors, and then evaluate whether the new curricula achieve part of what the interpellation deals with, and then possibly go into an overall assessment in view of a better benefit for the youth. Because it's true that the student needs to be focused. Recent research shows with all possible clarity that the problems we face at lower levels in primary school tend to increase significantly when you get up to high school. We should find a solution to that. But if the solution here should be to introduce the individual institution, not to give a better offer to the individual student, I don't know – that is. I know that, because I totally disagree with that. As regards proposal No: 6, from the representative of Rikvam, this suggests that those who are so weak that they will receive money after a single decision, now will not receive it. It's very worrying, because then you take from the weakest. As regards proposal No: 2, I think I have to read wrong, because here the real representative is opening up a knowledge check instead of the usual system check. In the case of the Progress Party, it could have joined, but I don't think he really means it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1442	There are very important questions that the interpellant addresses in this matter. The youth school is today the bottleneck of the Norwegian school system, and we think this is so clear that we will support the Workers' Party's proposal to get this up as a case of our own and get a debate on it. But let me go into a little bit of an exchange of words that the representative Rikvam and the councillor Lilletun had, whether one has miserable conditions or not in Norwegian school. Let me say that there is an incredible amount of good work being done in Norwegian school today. But we should also not underestimate that in order to meet in the future, the monthly improvements that must be made in many areas. To advance a little bit of what the message should contain: there are some factors that are more important than others, and those are the ones we should start with. The most important factor is the teacher. We have to give our teachers the status, we have to give them the ability to evolve, we have to give them training, and we have to give them the ability on an individual basis to get to know each other in order to make an extra effort in the school, so that at least that part is not an obstacle. When the representative Reikvam talks about stimulation and bonus, I hope that he also thinks that it should be possible for good people to make an effort beyond even to help our students get to a better and happier life. I hope I get that confirmed. The other thing, which is closely related to this, is the freedom and the variation that we need in Norwegian school. We have to release the cancers that lie in our leather basket. Today, we have a large proportion of the method in L97. We have key negotiations that tie up the teachers. We have municipal rules. Of 22 OECD countries, only Turkey has less autonomy for each school than Norway. To stick to what the representative Evje was into – she went to Russia, I'm going to China, without anything ideal, but it's just to show how crazy it is: in China, 48 pst. of the decisions relating to the individual school, taken at the school, the other 52 pst. be taken by local and central authorities. In Norway, the corresponding number is 9 pst. And then this has to be an improvement potential in a lot of ways. The representative, Rikvam, was inside the single ball. Giving freedom to develop different models is, in my view, not a threat to the unisphere. If we say – and I think that's right – that the schools are different, the principals are different, the teachers and the students are different, we don't get an equivalent offer by offering a similar, regulatory offer. We must have faith in the teachers, in the principals, just think how much better school we would have gotten by releasing the teachers and the schools from the coercion they are today! There are resources in search and cavities in Norwegian society and in school if we just get them out, in the way that's mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1457	Youth is the part of the training system that has been neglected in the years of the reform, in order to use that term. I have called the youth stage the Achilles heel of the school, and by this I believe that precisely this phase is so important for the development of children and young people. My claim is that the high school was left to itself when Reform 94 was introduced. I can say it like this, because I didn't sit on the Storting at that time. Although youth belongs to the compulsory 10-year-old school and secondary education is a voluntary training provision, there should be a link between the different levels of training. That this relationship is too bad today, which students have expressed, I fully agree with. The interpellant says there are too many students and teachers that are dismayed today. Yes, that is probably right, but I wish that what is good in Norwegian school was also brought forward. That's a lot of it, but unfortunately it doesn't get any attention either in the political environment or in opinion, because it doesn't sell! But think about how it would work for those who work at school and for their parents – what psychological effect it would not have. Interpellant asks state councils whether government councils will provide various incentives, such as: economy, to change the secondary level. Of course, the community economy is crucial for increasing resource use in youth. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that there are opportunities and room for action for the individual school today. Examples also mentioned by the Council of State, from the municipalities of Eidskog and Hå, show that where there is a willingness to change and school development, it is possible to do so. But it takes courage on the part of the school administration to give teachers and students freer ropes. The new training law opens up for trials at local level, and projects mentioned by the interpellantan had to be tested through local trials. I am not satisfied until we realize the intention of the Adultås Declaration on reduced student numbers in the classes. I will promise that I will sit on the back of the council to influence even stronger. It's a defeat when many students are dismayed at school. At my discretion, there is still too much traditional catheter education in high school. At a time when children and young people are used to PCs, computer games, CD-ROMs and other information media, the school cannot continue with old-fashioned teaching methods. Level 97 places great emphasis on project work. It's a nice but demanding way to train after, while there's a good preparation for work and further education. The centre party believes that there must be more real opportunities for differentiation, without this being at the expense of an inclusive school. Furthermore, I believe that practical courses should be given a broader place in high school. This would be a significant improvement for students who have special difficulties, as it would improve the individual's sense of success. Mestring is the key here. Similarly, we need to have a dialogue with the teachers and show them confidence. By doing so, I also believe that you have to show it by giving them better compensation for the efforts they are making.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1478	I share the starting point of the inter-pellant – he points out that high school has come into the background in many ways when school has undergone several reforms in the 1990s. The Left too believes that it is now high time to focus on the conditions and situation in high school, and we believe that the time has come for a thorough review of this school. I expect that a state report will come in the news already mentioned by the Council of State. I think in that context that it is important to point out that it is important to get knowledge of the situation. But reporting must not shut down action, and that is action the schools need now. In response, the Council of State showed that the Ministry is also now focusing on the development of youth, both as regards the development of skills among teachers and as regards the development of the subjects. This we think is joyous. The youth school is in a special situation. Young people between the ages of 14 and 16 are in the midst of a challenging phase of life. Youth is still being treated as a child, while we expect them to act as responsible adult people. They try out boundaries, they establish friendships for life, and at the same time they have to lay the groundwork for the choice of education, which will have consequences for large parts of their adult lives. So the question is whether the secondary school offers a good enough offer to the youth, whether the secondary school provides a good foundation for further education, professional life and an active social life. In evaluations and further development of secondary education, emphasis needs to be placed on the special social and professional development of this student group. Youth must be a place where young people learn both the professional and the social skills they need to have later in life. In this form, it is important to ensure that teachers have the professional skills necessary. However, whatever the professional background, it is also important that teachers who are in school are stimulated for innovation and further development of their place of work. The left will also open up to strengthen secondary education with professionals other than teachers. Teachers need help to deal with the problems many of the students face in their everyday school life. This is particularly true in secondary schools. There should be room for environmental workers and others with social skills in schools, both in classrooms and in schoolyards. The representative Reikvam focuses on the need for experimental and development work. The left fully shares this view and believes that such work, together with the dissemination of experience and further training, will be able to ensure the quality of education and increase the motivation and glow of the individual teacher. The left will stress that such development must begin in each school. This is important in order to ensure that new reforms and development measures are initiated from below, so that more progress than has been the case with the reforms so far in the 1990s takes place at school premises and with teachers as co-players. I hope we have all the parties in that vision. The Training Act provides the basis for experimental activities. The Ministry’s task will be to stimulate trials and development in individual schools and to facilitate the development of school experience.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1499	First, I would like to thank the representative, Mr Rikvam, for a commendable initiative, where the Stortinget is given the opportunity to discuss the situation in high school. In the interpellation, the representative pointed out, among others: the need to upgrade secondary schools, both structurally and by equipment. This is a relationship that the Labour Party has also pointed to in a number of contexts, both in the main hall and elsewhere, in the last year. After a decade of structural and content reforms throughout the education sector, there is now a need to focus on quality in education. The working environment of pupils and the question of a separate work environment law for pupils have also been the subject of the Stortinget several times. Already in the spring of 1996, a large majority of the government asked the government to draw up legislation to protect the physical working environment in line with the provisions applicable to ordinary workers. As this was not fully assessed in the Odelstingsproposition on the training law, a large number of people, including government parties, asked for the work to be speeded up. In the December budgetary procedure, the majority – the centre and the Progress Party – demonstrated this time that the Interministerial Group working on this issue was to present its investigation before the New Year. In the Question Time on March 3rd this year, the Council of State said that the group was soon finished, but at the same time he used the opportunity to push the matter ahead, and would wait to see how the regulations on environmental law are working in schools and kindergartens. But this regulation was already published in December 1995 – that is, before both the decisions and the majority comments that I have now mentioned in my post. That Lilletun is unable to get this done, despite the fact that the government parties have asked for an acceleration of the work, I can't believe anything else is due to the fact that the councillor Lilletun is about to get cold feet. As for this, I will not wonder today, but I still want to ask Lilletun to give the Stortinget and the students a better answer than what he has so far come up with. And I wonder – and ask: When does the Council of State plan to present a case on the student's working environment? Is it during the spring? Is it for the harvest? Is it until next year? This is one of the most important demands of students in Norway. How long will the state council keep the students waiting?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1513	I understand that the purpose of the interpellation of the representative Reikvam is to further develop the secondary school in a positive way. A while ago, I had a conversation with a principal who had been a principal for 25 years at a large school, approx. 800 students. His suggestion was, after considering it over a long time in the profession as a principal, that the school would be well served to get people from non-school workplaces, from other professions. He said it shouldn't be more than 75 pst. Pedagogues in secondary school. The remaining 25 pst. should be from other professions, so that they could strengthen the school. I agree with this Vice-Chancellor. Getting in supervisors from other professional groups will strengthen secondary education, by bringing in impulses from society outside the school. Teachers without a pedagogical background but with other relevant professional competences in different professions and professions will provide students with a broader understanding of the functioning of society and the business base in their community. In this way, children and young people will also gain an increased understanding of the relative prosperity of the different communities. In many places, it is dependent on different types of primary industries, such as fishing, agriculture, mining and industry. It will be a great advantage, in the context of recruitment to these industries, that young people in secondary school will have the necessary understanding of how incomes are generated to the community. Why can you buy brand clothes etc.? Well, because the parents serve the local value creation so well that they can allow themselves to do so. As far as teachers are concerned, in many cases they feel uncertain about how to acquire knowledge of the nutritional basis of the municipality in which they teach. After being in a small community, for example, 20 years as a teacher, it's a little awkward to go down on Kaia and ask: Do you drive with a spin, or do you do jets? They don't see these differences and they might be a little bit afraid to fool themselves out. This also means that they may not be able to pass on knowledge about the community or the business community in the community to the young in a sufficiently good way. By bringing more experienced students into school, this knowledge will also be disseminated to educators, who in turn contribute to the dissemination of knowledge to students. I believe that this will give a positive synergy that will bring the school a long way forward, while at the same time strengthening the recruitment of professions that are fundamental to the continued development of many communities. Last but not least, learning with a greater professional breadth among teachers will strengthen the level of knowledge of the students and help them to be better equipped in the further development of their lives and for further education and training in the field of professional life. Against this background, I would like to make a proposal that is distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1526	Benn Mikalsen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1529	The representative, like all of us, is concerned that youth in our schoolwork is going to get into focus and get a good and positive development. It is a fact that in the middle of Reform 97, with the main focus on the 6-year-olds, the youth class was somewhat set back and did not get enough on the agenda. Now I don't think at all that the youth in our school has gone into a winter hibernation in the municipalities. I know a lot of active involvement just for the youth. From my own municipality, I want to mention a project that focuses specifically on IT betting, where both students and teachers played an active role in relation to a project on kindergartens in our municipality and an IT presentation in this regard. The IT effort also led to the construction of computer equipment and the understanding of the computer components. Together with high school there is now a project to develop these ideas further. What I'm trying to point out is that good trials that come from the grassroots, usually work well. This is done within the current framework and intentions of the curriculum, which is based on creativity among teachers and interest created among students. I believe that today's curriculum, which underlines the importance of practical and creative work, will provide a good opportunity for a positive development in youth. However, as an alternate and rapporteur, I must also say that the eagerness of this Chamber to start reforms and attempts may have to be somewhat more in line with what each municipality is able to follow up. Stimulation measures are good, but when the carrots are so well wrapped that you can hardly smell them, much less eat them, it gets complicated. I therefore believe that the Rikham's proposal would have been much better if they had been transmitted, and that the committee could thus have the opportunity to enter into a more in-depth debate just to ensure the youth dimension of the schoolwork a good future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1540	I'm a little uncertain about whether I'm «wonbroken» after this debate. At least I am disappointed – it is quite clear, because I had probably hoped that there would be a little more offensive attitudes, a little more interest in going into some of the proposals that we have launched. We chose this time to grab the contents of the school. We chose the syllabus as our starting point. We want to talk about the curricula and discuss them. They facilitate for the most part. There are great freedoms for the individual school, the individual municipality, the individual teacher to use this curriculum. I had in many ways hoped that we would get a discussion about how we who have been involved in adopting these curricula would stimulate and give impulses to the schools to implement and use the plans that lie there. So I'm a little disappointed when the carrots get too small. I could pull out some heavy carrots, but I would think the chances of getting the Christian People's Party on the big carrots were smaller than getting them on small carrots. Therefore, I drew out some small carrots and had hoped that the Christian People's Party could at least consider them. But I understand that they don't even know the smell, and then there's no great speed on it. It's a little disappointing, I have to say. I agree that the attempts must come from below. It is not my or SV's goal to try to control the attempts from above. I agree with the Council of State that in many ways we have one too centralist school. I also agree with the Right – it is interesting that I can say that I agree with the Right in just that there may be some limitations due to some centralism in our school. We're going to discuss that, because the point is to stimulate it from below. But no matter where the change is to happen – whether it's in the private business or where it is – one can be 100 pst. ensure that quite a number of means of conversion are put in place. A bank cannot be converted, or where it may be, without one being sure that there are any means of conversion. That's some of what I've been trying to say. If we're going to be able to convert, if we're going to be able to stimulate schools to apply curricula, really try out new things, there has to be some carrots -- even if they're small -- in the same way that the case is in business and elsewhere. That was the idea, to try at least to get an acceptance for that way of thinking about it. Therefore, I am somewhat disappointed that it was not possible. In our proposal No. 2 we use a formulation that is probably not very lucky: ‘The government is asking for various attempts...’ Just to find out that these are going to come from below, I want to change ‘start’ to ‘stimulate’. I hope that then it can be a little easier for those who fear SV's centralist education policy. It's not as centralistic as many people think.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1549	The President is in doubt if the attempt to stimulate will contribute to something so late in the debate, but it remains to be seen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1552	It is clear that it is the privilege of each and every one of them to be disappointed or lifted. I sat and listened to the debate and thought that there was a great deal of breakthrough for the representative, Rikvam, and that it was a fitting time for the interpellation to come up. In fact, he has provided the basis for a good debate when we come up with a big message. Obviously, there will also be tracks that we have to follow up in the ministry. So I sat and listened to this in a completely different way than the representative Rikvam, but, as I said, it's each one's privilege to interpret the debate. I believe that the representative, Mr Rikvam in particular, has nothing against me interpreting it so that there is a lot of signal coming here today that there is reason both for the committee, the Stortinget and myself to follow up. I have also registered that there are many who want a state assessment. Of course, I have nothing against saying that it is important. We get a first round of condition assessment already Friday. It will be dealt with and followed by a mission to the Ministry on the basis of it. I hope, therefore, that it is possible in a way to interpret the illegitimateness that arises in that decision, so that one can wait and see what comes out of it altogether. I record that there is a very large deal that this requires a local handling room, and I think that I am good. Synnove Konglevoll brought up the working environment for the students. In connection with that, she has a question in question tomorrow, so I'll give her an answer there. When it comes to Benn Mikalsen's suggestions, I don't think he meant it just as he wrote it, namely, "teachers without a recognised education". Another type of approved education I think he thinks in that presented. I think we're going to have more groups of professionals and that there's a process that's coming forward. I'm taking with me the signals that came from here. I also register, with pleasure that the representative Tingelstad will sit on my back until we have got a reinforcement on the educational side of the youth ball. I have no objection to having the representative Tingelstad on my back, but I will give some other addresses privately to the representative Tingelstad that it is absolutely necessary to sit on in addition, if we are to get a good result here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1565	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2361]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1579	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2362]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1593	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2362]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1607	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 2363]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1621	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 2363]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1635	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 2363]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1643	The cancellation goes to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1650	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No I, by Mrs Knudsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, by Petter Løvik on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 3 and 4, from Rolf Reikvam on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on the proposals from the Socialist Left, then on the proposal from the Right and then on the proposal from the Progressive Party. Proposals Nos. 3 and 4, from the Socialist Left Party, to voting. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘Students from linguistic minorities shall be offered native language training at all levels of primary school.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up master language training syllabuses for the different classes of primary school. The plans shall also focus on the cultural and identity creation of the language of the native language.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1683	Proposal No. 2, from the Right, taken up to the vote. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to take into account that parent language training/bilingual training is to be assessed in line with other measures/methods used in primary school in order to provide individual students with appropriate skills and assumptions. This means, among other things: the absence of specific regulations on the obligation of local authorities to provide language/bilingual training, the absence of the development of their own language training syllabus and the repeal of the special State grants for language training.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1699	Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, taken up for voting. ‘1. The government is asking the Government to facilitate students from linguistic minorities to have the same opportunities, rights and obligations as Norwegian native language. Parental training in non-Norwegian matters is abolished under public law and is considered to be a private matter.2. The government is asking the government to base its policy on parents of children from the duties of linguistic minorities to ensure, in accordance with child law, that children born in Norway have adequate Norwegian skills when presented for admission to ordinary public schools. In cases where it is revealed that parents have not complied with their obligations in this field, it should result in reactions such as fines and/or follow-up from the protection of children. 3rd@item: inlistbox The Government asks the Government to assess an extension of the school day for students with no Norwegian knowledge and to intensify Norwegian education for such students.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1741	Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1748	In the course of the debate, seven proposals have been put forward. It's: proposal No 1, by Anneliese Dørum, on behalf of the Workers' Party, 2-6, by Rolf Rikvam, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 7, by Benn Mikalsen, on behalf of the People's Party During the debate, Mr Reikvam made an amendment to the text of proposal No. 2, addressed to ‘The Government asks for incentives for different trials’, etc. As regards proposal No: 7. by the elected representatives of the People's Party, this has been submitted after the time limit laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy in order for the motioners to be able to request a vote of the facts. However, the President will not oppose the vote on the substance. If there are no objections from the Chamber, there will be a vote against the proposal by the elected representatives of the People's Party. – Connection to such a procedure is deemed to have been granted. Rolf Rekvam – for explanation of vote. With some experience from a previous case map, with interviews and proposals, the President will stress that these are explanations of vote, not explanations of vote. The President will further state that one should concentrate on how one should vote, and not why one should vote the way one intends to do.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1769	I just want to meet a strong wish from the assembly to make part of the proposals for transmission proposals. We have to deal with it in part. We want to make the proposals no. 5 and 6 on transmission proposals. The rest of the proposals we'd like to hear from you. Otherwise, we will vote in favour of the motion by the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1776	I note the exhortation the President gave to the representative, Rikvam, and I'll try to be brief. Proposal No. 1, from the Labour Party, I urge the Right's Group to support, as this debate has given us the impression that the Council of State will have a certain room for action when it comes to what form this will come to be. With the clarification and the amendment made by the representative of Mr Reikvam in proposal No. 2, Right can also support it. The other proposals from SV I ask the Right's group to vote against. In the case of proposal No: 7, from Benn Mikalsen on behalf of Tverrpolitan Folkevalde, the intentions are very good, but form so that I ask that this be turned into a transmission proposal if possible. If not, I ask the Right's group to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1787	As regards proposal No: 1, from the Workers' Party, I will be able, in the light of the explanation of vote Petter Løvik now joined on behalf of the Right, also to support the proposal and would recommend that the representatives of the Centre Parties vote for it. As regards proposal No: 2 has changed the wording of the text by the representative, and then the central parties can support that proposal. Proposals Nos. We also wanted to be able to convert 3 and 4 into a transmission proposal. That has not been the wish of the proposer, and I would recommend that the centre parties vote against those proposals. The same applies to proposal No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1796	I would recommend that the Working Party vote in favour of SV's proposal No. Two, three, four. It is entirely in line with the proposal we ourselves are making, and it could be included in a state report. As regards proposal No: 7, from the People's Party, the Workers' Party is also interested in getting other occupational groups into school, more adults into school. But as the proposal is formulated, we must vote against it, and I would recommend Benn Mikalsen to turn it into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1803	I would ask that our proposal, No. 7, is converted into a transmission proposal, so that you can follow the case further.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1808	Then the president assumes we can go to voting. During the explanations of vote, the proposals are no. 5 and 6, from SV, turned into a transmission proposal. The same applies to proposal No. 7, from Benn Mikalsen on behalf of the People's Party. Proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party, says in amended form: ‘It is recommended that the Government assess the establishment of a separate council responsible for initiating trials within the framework of the elementary and secondary curricula. The Council shall be administered by the Ministry.’.» Proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party, says in amended form: ‘It is recommended that the Government consider transferring the appropriations earmarked for special education to ordinary education in the context of the 2000 budget.’;» Proposal No. 7, from the People's Party Party of European Socialists, reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government launch trials around the country to implement teachers without a qualification at school, as well as teachers with a pedagogical background. The tests shall be based on the local business community in question, with the aim of strengthening knowledge of local business and stimulating recruitment for local business.» The President proposes that these three proposals should be forwarded to the Government without any responsibilities. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party, addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to undertake various attempts at alternative organisation of education and school day. The tests must include the practical organisation such as the length of the school day and the division into hours and sessions of different subjects and pedagogical alternatives, where practical working methods are included as forms of work in traditional theoretical subjects as well.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1843	Proposals Nos. 3 and 4, from the Socialist Left Party, to voting. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to launch tests on quality-free schools at youth level. The tests shall, inter alia, be used to develop new evaluation methods. The tests shall be evaluated to see to what extent the characteristics govern the teaching, pedagogical arrangements and whether unqualified schools can better implement the objectives and intentions of the reform 97 curricula.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Grand Duchy asks the Government, in the context of the 1999 Revised National Budget, to submit proposals for earmarked appropriations for primary education to be used for: - stimulation grants to schools wishing to participate in various trials under the Reform Programmes 97, - grants to schools that will participate in the centrally initiated trials. The schools shall dispose of the test equipment.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1868	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to present a separate case on the state of primary education.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1906	There is a vote on the proposal from the representative, Siv Jensen, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by the meeting of the Odel Stingen on 2 March 1999: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring together the petroleum tax provisions as its own chapter in the new tax law.’ The voting boards showed that there were 37 votes in favour and 64 votes against. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 15.05.29]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1918	Since a large number of the representatives in the room may have been injured to vote incorrectly, I ask that it be voted again.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1925	If it is that several people also share this view, of course the President will let the vote go again.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1928	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1935	With it the President assumes that the safest thing will be that we vote again on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16.ana.ud93e1948	There is a vote on the proposal by Siv Jensen, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by the meeting of the Odelsting on 2 March 1999: ‘The decision asks the Government to take action to bring together the company tax provisions in the new tax law into a separate chapter.’
