ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e99	Honourable co-representatives! The former deposit representatives Oddleif Fagerheim and Bjarne Flem have resigned at death. Former coroner and teacher Oddleif Fagerheim is dead, 88 years old. Oddleif Fagerheim met as a stammeringsman for the Workers' Party from Sogn and Fjordane in the years 1969-1981. He was a member of the Maritime and Fisheries Committee from 1969 to 1973 and 1977 to 1981 and a member of the Transport Committee from 1973 to 1977. For his long-standing political efforts, he became an honorary member of the Workers' Party. Oddleif Fagerheim was born in Dale in Fjaler municipality in Sogn and Fjordane. His political career started when he was a 22-year-old enrolled in the Workers' Party. Fagerheim subsequently joined the local policy and was a member of Fjaler's government from 1938 to 1975, of the Presidency from 1946 to 1975, and of the rapporteur from 1966 to 1967. From 1948 to 1950 he held the position of chairman of Sogn and Fjordane Arbeiderpartie. At the time, he was also an alternate to Stortinget. Oddleif Fagerheim was known as a man with strong personality and strong and radical opinions. He was a NATO opponent, environmental protection and a convincing opponent of Norway becoming a member of the EEA and the EU. These strong opinions led him, as a 78-year-old, to put on the list for the Environment and Solidarity Party. This led to a violation of the Workers' Party. Oddleif Fagerheim was very active in his efforts against Nazism, both during and after World War II. In the autumn of 1941, Vidkun Quisling wanted to introduce Nazism into the Norwegian school and demanded that teachers enter the Norwegian Teachers' Association collectively. Teachers all over the country refused to follow the order. At the center of this resistance struggle was, among other things, Oddleif Fagerheim. The Odddleif Fagerheim was in charge of a Nordist. As an expression, Fagerheim and his wife decided to donate their home, Dalsåsen in Fjaler, to the Nordic Council. On 8 May 1998 the formal opening of Nordisk Kunstnarsenter, Dalsåsen, took place. The aim of the facility is to develop and promote Nordic cooperation in the operation of guest studios and other professional artists in design, visual arts, architecture and crafts. His family, Sogn and Fjordane, have greatly appreciated the lifelong cultural work he did in many fields. The county showed its gratitude by awarding him the County Culture Prize in 1991. In the words written in the last few days, Oddleif Fagerheim is one of the most colorful and distinctive politicians in Sogn and Fjordane. He was an idealist with strong opinions. He presented them with power and authority. Former P.A. Bjarne Flem is dead, 85 years old. Bjarne Flem was born in 1914 in Haram as number 11 in the nursery. He took the Radio and Coastal Shipper's Exam in 1943, and was a fisherman from 1938 to 1965. When he was 19 years old, he became the president of the youth union at the home. Since that time and the rest of his life he was an avid spokesman for his condition and his coast. He joined the fishing team early, and became chairman of Flemsøy Fiskarlag in 1938. From 1948 to 1966 he was a member of the board of Sunnmøre Fiskerlag. He was the president there for two periods. Bjarne Flem had a number of local jobs. He was a member of Haram's municipal government from 1948 to 1951 and from 1963 to 1966, for two periods he was a member of the presidency. From 1976 to 1979 he was a member of the county council, and from 1972 he was chairman of the board of directors of More and Romsdal. Bjarne Flem came to Stortinget as alternate no. 1 for the left in More and Romesdal in the period 1961-1965. He then met several times. In the next two periods – 1965-1973 – he was a permanent representative. Also on the Storting was the fisheries policy that was closest to his heart. As a result, he was a member of the Maritime and Fisheries Committee for both of his periods at Stortinget. From 1973 to 1977 he was again the first alternate. He also had many other public administrative duties, most related to the fishing industry. For several years he was the rapporteur of the Sunnmøre Fiskerindustrie, 30 years in the Board of Directors of the Fiskarhuset in Ålesund and 12 years as Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Fiskarbanken in Ålesund. He was chairman of the Haram Left Team for several periods in the 1970s and in the Moor and Romesdal Left Team from 1974 to 1976. He received the King's gold medal for his efforts for fishermen and their industry in 1985. Bjarne Flem had a broad social exposure. The interest was to make the Kingdom a better society for everyone. As a person he was a lukewarm and pleasant man to be with, and a rewarding man to talk to. In his political work he went forward in a fair, open and honest way. In deep respect, we remember Oddleif Fagerheim and Bjarne Flem and shine peace over their memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e143	The representative of Olav Akselsen, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the scheduled time. 15 to the current map has been completed. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e158	I must ask for the understanding of the President and the representatives that the presentation will be relatively long. I have found it right because of the nature of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e163	With the approval of Stortingen, the Prime Minister will have the time he needs to explain this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e166	On Thursday 16 December 1999, the Norwegian and Swedish Governments agreed that the merger of Telenor AS and Telia AB had to be terminated. It agreed to start negotiations on an agreement on how voluntary winding-up of the company can take place as soon as possible and in full agreement between the countries. It is also agreed that neither the owners nor the companies shall submit claims for compensation in respect of the termination of cooperation. I have requested to make this statement because I want to inform the Storting about some of the facts underlying this decision. I will mention developments in the matter as far as possible in the short time we have had available after the breach. I would like to touch both on the occasion of the negotiations on association as they were conducted and on our understanding of the content of the agreements. I would also like to briefly explain the Government's further work on Telenor's future. The government will return to Stortinget as early as possible next year following these questions in an appropriate form. First of all, in the negotiations. It is almost two years since the merger plans first became publicly known. The current Minister of Transport Odd Einar Dørum informed in a press conference on 21 January 1998 that there had been contact between Telenor and Telia about cooperation, but that the talks had been interrupted. The following day, on 22 January, I said, among other things. the following in the Grand Duchy: ‘I record that the leaders of parties which constitute a majority of the Stortinget have expressed a different opinion through the media. If this is confirmed by the Storting today, the Government will of course comply with this and take the initiative to resume the discussions.» This was confirmed as known in Stortinget, and the talks between Telenor and Telia were then resumed, but they ended on 20 February of the same year without agreement. The background was that it was not possible to reach an agreement on a result that adequately safeguarded the Norwegian interests in a merged company. The decision was in line with the advice given by an overall Telenor regime. In the summer of 1998, new conversations were launched by companies. The Ministry of Transport was briefed on this. Calls ended. In order to move forward with a possible merger, the Ministry of Transport launched negotiations with the Swedish Ministry of Economic Affairs in the autumn of 1998 on a declaration of intent. These negotiations included, inter alia: based on the basis of which the companies had prepared. The Declaration of Intention was signed by the Governments of Dørum and Björn Rosengren on 20 January 1999. It was based on full equivalence between the owners. The exchange ratio was set at 40/60 pst. for the Norwegian and Swedish States. Sub-privatisation and stock exchange listing were a prerequisite and the principle of equivalence was the basis of voting rights, board representation and composition of senior management of the company. It was suggested that the remaining contract elements should be clarified within eight weeks from the date of signature. Furthermore, it was agreed that the business units of the association should be added to Norway and Sweden in accordance with the so-called integration principles to be developed. The negotiations held during the period between the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding on 20 January of this year and the signing of the Association Agreement on 30 March were very extensive and involved many persons. Both the owners and the two companies took part in the negotiations. The four parties each had their legal and financial advisers. So on the background to the application of voting rights rules to the relocalisation of the management of business areas. The development of the principles of the actual integration of Telenor and Telia, including the issue of location of the business units, was left to the two companies in agreement between the two owners. The principles were to be completed before the signature of the association agreement on 30 March of this year, with a view to its conclusion as an annex to this agreement. It turned out in the second half of March that the two companies did not reach an agreement in time. This was an important reason why the special voting rights rules set out in point 4.3(b) of the shareholder agreement were applied not only to the new company’s business plan, group budget and change in the integration principles, but also explicitly to ‘reorganisation, restructuring and relocation of New AB’s subsidiaries and business units’. [[i]] These rules require decisions to be taken by a majority including at least one of the shareholders-elected representatives from each country. For the sake of order, I refer to the provision in question, which reads as follows: ‘The following decisions require a majority of the Governing Board which includes one Governing Board member nominated by the Swedish State and one Governing Board member nominated by the Norwegian State.’» The government found it appropriate and proper to sign the association agreement on 30 March without finalising the location of business lines, because the location would be a central part of the board’s responsibility for the overall management of the company. This issue should therefore be assessed by the board on the basis of an overall view of what would serve the company the best. The decision was to be made by the Board of Directors on the basis of a commercial assessment, and on the basis of the equivalence of the parties on which the cooperation was based. In the view of the Government, the principle of balance was well safeguarded by the voting rights of the shareholder agreement. Following the government’s assessment, the agreement was balanced and it was a good negotiated result for Norway. The purpose was to create a strong telecommunications company based in the Nordic region. The shareholder agreement was annexed to the association agreement. This Agreement provides for the rules on voting rights. It was not signed in March. The assumption was that it should be signed when all necessary permits – including: from the national Parliaments of the two countries and from the European Commission — available. The last thing happened as known on 19 October this year. 16 April this year became St. Prp. No 58 About the merger of Telenor AS and Telia AB submitted to Stortinget. It was dealt with here on June 3rd this year. The majority of the Committee, all except the member of the Socialist Left Party, supported the proposal to merge Telenor AS and Telia AB in accordance with the agreed agreement. An equivalent majority was here in the main hall. So about some new demands that eventually came from the Swedish side. In August, it became clear that the European Commission would not authorise the association if the companies did not dispose of their cable TV activities. During the same period, preparation for stock exchange introduction was carried out. Among other things, discussed how to organise the banks to dispose of the shares. To discuss these issues, representatives from the Norwegian and Swedish departments of Oslo met on 20 August this year. There were then oral demands from Sweden that would lead to changes in the shareholder agreement. Following this meeting, the Ministry of Transport received a letter from the Swedish Ministry of Economic Affairs on 24 August. Among other things, the request for the sale of cable TV was made in such a way that Telia and Telenor would leave the cable business to their owners at the book value per. 31 December 1998 and that the owners could then sell this separately and retain the proceeds. This would have meant that the agreed exchange ratio – 40/60 – would have been changed in Norwegian disfavor, because Telia’s cable TV business is far more valuable than Telenors. The issue of the location of the head offices of different business areas was also raised, in addition to issues related to business strategy, the introduction of stock exchange etc. From the Swedish side, there was a desire to address these issues in the context of the Swedish state having to decide whether it would accept the EU Commission’s demand for the sale of Telia’s cable TV business. In view of the requirements of this letter, State Council Dag Jostein Fjærvoll found it necessary to write to the Council of State Rosengren and ask for his written confirmation that the shareholder agreement and the merger agreement were in force. Such confirmation was received in a letter dated 30 August. Two days later, on 1 September, the Council of State sent a letter to the Council of State Rosengren rejecting the change in the contract and clarifying that the voting rules were applicable to issues relating to the location of the head office of the different business areas. State Council Rosengren confirmed that the rules of the shareholder agreement would apply in a letter dated 23 September of this year – and this was then confirmed by the Norwegian side in a letter of the same date. I will come to the contents of this correspondence later. The EU Commission’s authorisation to merge the companies was available on 13 October 1999. The Aktionary Agreement was signed on 19 October. This did not happen without a negotiation situation. Just before the signature, it became clear that Chairman Jan-Åke Kark was to be appointed as a special adviser, in addition to his role as Chairman of the Board of Directors. At the same time, three of the four members of the Board of Directors to be appointed by the organisations of the members of the Board of Directors required the representatives of the Swedish delegates. This would be in line with Swedish share law. However, at this point too, the parties to the shareholder agreement had argued that two of the members’ representatives were to be appointed from the Swedish side and two from the Norwegian side. The Aktionary Agreement was to be signed on 18 October 1999. However, the Federal Council of State decided to postpone its journey to the situation was discussed with Telenor's board. These issues were discussed with Telenor's government. Following consideration by the Management Board, a note from the Chairperson of the Management Board of 18 October 1999 drawing the following conclusion from the Norwegian position: ‘On the basis now available, the Governing Board may recommend closing only when satisfactory solutions have been found to the following outstanding questions: [[Association]] The aim of the establishment shall be to develop a long-term industrial growth company with international orientation. This objective shall be given priority over short-term financial considerations.The representation of employees by the Board of Directors shall be resolved on a permanent basis in such a way that there are two representatives from Sweden and two from Norway.The provisions of the Statute shall have no geographical limitation. The role and employment of the Chairperson shall be resolved in such a way that it does not, in fact, represent a working Chairperson and that, as provided for, a normal relationship between the Chairperson and the Administrative Board is established. The input value of the funds must be such as to maximise the company's value within the scope of the auditor's acceptance. For the Governing Board, in addition to the solution to these questions, it is essential that insurance be provided by the Swedish owner and the Swedish Chairman of the Board of Directors that they make efforts to facilitate the work in such a way that the basic principles of the Equality and Balance Agreement are respected and respected.» These issues were discussed with the Swedish Department night until 19 October. Telenor's Chief Executive took part in the negotiations with the State Council, Mr Færvoll, and officials from the Ministry of Transport. The agreement was reached early in the morning on 19 October. The agreement was signed without any modification or objection to the special voting rights rules or their scope. After the signature of the agreement, the company was established and the board and management took office. In important events in this process, advice was obtained from Telenor’s board of directors, and Telenor’s management and advisers actively participated in the negotiations. Thus, under specified conditions, Telenor’s Board of Directors, both in connection with the conclusion of the Memorandum of Understanding in January, prior to the signature in March, following the Swedish renegotiation trial in September, and before the implementation of the October merger, agreed to further progress and signature of the Agreements. The terms of Telenor's board of directors have been fulfilled in the agreements, and there has therefore been no conflict between the councils of Telenor's board and the agreements of the Government. So more specifically about the governance decision that triggered the crisis and the breach: As you know, the board meeting of the new company was held on 8 December this year. The location of the management of business units was not on the agenda as a decision point. The Council of State, Mr Færvoll, was briefed on this by the Chairman of the Board. On a proposal from a Norwegian member of the board, the Board of Directors dealt with the case of localisation. During the Board's discussions, it became clear that the Board divided by nationality when it applied to the head office of the mobile device. The Chairperson chose to use his double vote in order to: forcing a reconciliation of the location of head offices at the meeting on 8 December to prevent a proposal for a week's postponement for the extension of a compromise proposal to take effect on the Swedish proposal for localisation; He did this despite clear warnings from the Norwegian side against such a procedure. The Norwegian members of the Governing Board immediately made a record that the decision had been taken in breach of the voting rights rules of the shareholder agreement. In a letter of 13 December to the Council of State Rosengren, the Federal Council of State asked Fjærvoll to instruct his board members in advance of the next board meeting, so that the terms of the agreement could be achieved. The next day, the Council of State sent Færvoll a new letter pointing out that the board meeting was to be held on Friday 17 December, where the CEO's position was to be a theme. He asked the Council of State Rosengren to instruct its members of the board prior to this meeting, so that all members of the board of directors of this meeting, and as long as the shareholder agreement applies, would vote in such a way as to achieve what was agreed in the agreement. These letters have not been answered. However, as is well known, consultations were held between the two State Councils last week with a view to once again reaching agreement that the rules of the shareholder agreement should apply. On the Swedish side, it was requested that acceptance of the voting rights would not be given without two requirements being met: firstly, that the management of the business unit should be in Stockholm independently of new and correct treatment in a new board meeting, and secondly, that the management and board of companies should be replaced. On the basis of this, the Council of State, Mr Færvoll, gave the following response to the Council of State, Mr Rosengren, by telephone, on 16 December 1999: ‘It is an absolute requirement on the Norwegian side that the voting rights set out in point 4.3.b of the Shareholder Agreement be complied with. This applies both to the decision taken on Wednesday 8 December, possibly at the Governing Board meeting on 17 December, and to the future. This is the reason I sent a letter to you on 13.12. and 14.12. respectively, which I am waiting for in writing. That is to say, the resolution on Wednesday 8.12.99 on the allocation of management of business lines must be re-established, in line with these rules, and the rules must be followed for the future. Without a clear confirmation from the Swedish government at this point, and without any connection to the other issues raised, we will not be able to conduct real discussions on other issues of significant importance to the company. From the Norwegian side, we also see the need to make changes that can solve the serious cooperation problems that have been found to exist in the company’s governing bodies, which may involve changes in the company’s governance and management. We cannot link this on the Norwegian side to the shareholder agreement’s voting rights rules. You have requested some sort of guarantee that the material content of the governance decision on Wednesday, 8 December, namely that the management of the mobile device will be maintained in Stockholm. Such a guarantee can and will not be given. The distribution of the management of the business units must be carried out in accordance with the rules set out in point 4.3(b) of the shareholder agreement and must be taken into account for commercial reasons, taking into account the need to ensure balance and equivalence. I now perceive the situation so that we have to consider taking steps as described in Chapter 8 of the Shareholder Agreement on Arbitration. Alternatively, in line with the provisions of Chapter 4.1(c) of the Shareholders Agreement, it may be discussed whether a general meeting should now be convened on the voluntary winding-up of the company. [[ii]] So far the Council of State of Færvoll's feedback. These points of conversation were sent to him at Rosengren's request. I find here reason to stress that the Norwegian objections were therefore based on how the company's board of directors made its decision, the content of such decisions is, of course, the responsibility of the board of directors. Later that day I had telephone contact with Prime Minister Göran Persson. The situation was locked down. It was at this time very difficult cooperation in governance and management, and the situation for the companies was serious. In this connection I also point out that in an interview with NTB on 17 December, Tormod Hermansen described the situation as follows: «Everyone in the board was aware of or should be aware of the consequences. Nevertheless, the decision was taken. I then realized that the gap was too deep for the merger to take place." The result of my dialogue with Prime Minister Persson was an agreement between us on the voluntary dissolution of the company. The government agreed to this on the basis of an overall assessment. The four Norwegian shareholders-elected members of the board of directors of the company also agreed to this conclusion. The result was announced in a joint press release from Prime Minister Persson and me on 16 December 1999 at 9.30 p.m. 19.00. So much more about the content of the agreements. I stress that neither Norway nor Sweden has any shareholder agreements that supplement the share law. The association of Telia and Telenor was about two wholly owned state-owned companies to be merged and sub-privatised. It is natural, in my opinion, that there was a need to agree arrangements that complement the Swedish Share Act rules. Let me also stress that voting rights should be part of a time-limited transitional arrangement in the context of aggregation and partial privatisation. The rule would apply until parity was achieved, i.e. not more than 18 months after the stock exchange introduction. The special voting rules to be used by the Governing Board in matters of particular importance to the owners were set out in the statement of intent. At the time it was adopted – i.e. 20 January this year – location of business units was not included as such. It was agreed that the head office would be in Sweden and an international centre in Norway. Other business units or units were to be added to Sweden and Norway in accordance with the integration principles. The Norwegian negotiators proposed in February 1999 that the voting rights rules should include decisions on relocation. The claim was rejected. In mid-March the requirement was re-established. In addition, the Norwegian side requested that if a question covered by the specific majority requirements did not reach a sufficient majority, each shareholder should have the right to convene an extraordinary general meeting. In this context, each shareholder should undertake to instruct its members to vote in order to comply with the provisions of a qualified majority. The purpose of the voting rules was not for the owners to intervene and take over proceedings and decisions of the Board in difficult cases. The purpose was for the Governing Body itself to come up with solutions that were balanced so that they could gain the support of the members of the Governing Board in both countries. Such a rule presents great challenges to the Chairperson. In the Swedish draft agreement of 25 March 1999, the Norwegian requirement that the relocalisation of the company’s business units can only be carried out by the Board of Directors under the special voting rules was mainly accepted, and the result was the texts now formulated in points 4.3(b) and 4.5 of the shareholder agreement. [[i]] The background to the acceptance of the requirement is that at that time, at the end of the eight weeks, the companies still did not agree on the location issue. It was therefore necessary for the new company’s board to take a decision on this matter. Therefore, Norwegian traders made an absolute demand that the text of the agreement explicitly state that changes to the business lines should be covered by the qualified majority provision, as was the result. Then there has been a question about whether the voting rules should have been included in the statutes. However, laying down the provisions of the shareholder agreement would not in itself avert the problems which arose, given that it is the interpretation of the provisions on which there appears to be disagreement. In the context of the voting rules negotiations, the Norwegian owner assessed whether to require that the voting rules be included in the statutes of the new company. The Swedish law firm Venge was asked if it was possible to include in the statutes that issues of particular importance should require a majority of at least one member of the board appointed by the Norwegian and Swedish sides respectively voted in favour. The assessment was that such a provision could not be recorded in the statutes of a Swedish company. Furthermore, different alternative regulations were considered, but they were not recommended by our consultants. In any event, the shareholder agreement in paragraph 9.8 states that the contract takes precedence over the statutes in the event of any conflict. The Norwegian legal advisers supported the assessment that voting rights should be included in the shareholder agreement as appropriate. This is, moreover, a very common arrangement. Such a shareholder agreement has been designed – and at least from the obvious point of view that an agreement binds the parties who have signed it – it is my clear assessment that it was neither necessary nor appropriate to lay down statutory voting rules. So a little bit about the content of the propositions. The size was known to the contract as a printed attachment to St.prp. No 58 for 1998-99 in full. In addition, the following text was included in paragraph 6.2.4 of the Proposition itself: ‘The board of directors of the new company will decide at a later stage how to locate the management of its business lines. The decision is subject to the special voting rights rules established in the shareholder agreement, i.e.: at least one shareholder representative from each country must agree to the decision.’;» This is, in my opinion, fully in line with the content of the agreement on this point. I add, for the sake of order, that everyone who participated on the Norwegian side, including Telenor's Chairman and CEO, had and have the same opinion that this is correct. The Swedish proposal also points to the introduction of specific voting rights rules for certain decisions and uses the following wording: ‘The decisions requiring specific rules include the business plan of the new group and its group budget, the approval of major organisational changes and the appointment and removal of executive directors and deputy directors.’ Let me point to two ratios. The Swedish text thus states that the voting rights rules include ‘major organisational changes’, while the agreement does not use such a qualification. Having said that, I would like to add that there can hardly be any doubt that the distribution and transfer of management for the company's business units involves major organisational changes. Now, of course, two countries’ governments do not mutually recognise each other’s documents to national Parliaments. In this case, however, the draft proposals were exchanged in advance and examined at a meeting in Stockholm on 9 April this year. Two officials from each department participated. There were no objections or comments to the text on the location of business units, whether by Swedish or Norwegian. In the press one of the officials concerned is the interview. I record that his explanation is used to claim that I should have made this mistake. I can't see that I did that. What I've said is that the proposition texts were exchanged and presented for the two departments to be in agreement with each other's production, but there was no approval system. A Swedish ministry lawyer also attended the meeting. The Ministry of Transport has stated that the purpose of the meeting was a mutual review of the Norwegian and Swedish propositions on the aggregation of Telia AB and Telenor AS to ensure that the respective national departments were in agreement with the content of the two countries’ propositions. The drafts were distributed in advance to the Swedish and Norwegian departments responsible. The meeting was not a negotiating meeting, and the meeting was not supposed to end in any form of direct approval of the content of the propositions by the respective countries. Because in the two countries there seems to be a slightly different tradition in the design of propositions, it was important from the Norwegian side to explain the construction of the Norwegian proposition, among others. why the Norwegian proposition was more extensive than the Swedish one. From the Norwegian side, it was also important to establish the equivalence and balance on which the merger was based and on which the agreements negotiated, including the agreed integration principles, were based. It was agreed that the arrangements for the operation of the new company should be based on commercial and commercial principles, while at the same time achieving a balance between the companies in terms of influence, management and location. This was important to obtain from the Norwegian side. No objection was raised by Sweden regarding the wording of the Norwegian proposition on these issues, including wording on voting rules in the shareholder agreement. Let me add that some other wordings in the draft proposals were changed after the review of the meeting, but there was no objection to our understanding of the voting rules. However, questions have been asked as to why the two propositions do not have completely identical text at this point. The answer to this could be that the two countries have a somewhat different tradition of projection design, and it was never intended that the prose text of the propositions should be identical, but that both should be comprehensive. The identical text was contained in the agreements, which were attached in full to both proposals. The point was that the content of the sentence should be the same. The press clearly distinguishes between a ‘technical’ review and other forms of review. A review requires, however, that the texts have been read through, and I have assured myself that they were. The possibility of responding was undoubtedly present, both at this time and later. A wording similar to that of the Norwegian Landfill Proposition, which stressed that the voting rights rules should apply to the location of management of the business areas, was also used in the Ministry of Transport press release on 30 March 1999. The press release was sent to the Swedish Ministry of Economic Affairs and was distributed to the press at the signing of the agreement in Stockholm. The press releases were not mutually accepted, but were known to both parties. The Stortingsproposition was sent to the Swedish Ministry of Economic Affairs in 50 copies immediately after it went to the State Council in April. If there had been significant objections to the Norwegian understanding of the contract text, it would have been natural, in my opinion, for the Swedish Department to have contacted us before the Stortinget completed the procedure on 3 June this year. It wasn't done. The Ministry of Transport then had no reason to believe that the Ministry of Economic Affairs in Sweden did not have the same intention of agreeing with the agreement as the Norwegian State. It has also been speculated whether the Swedish wording of the shareholder agreement could have different shades than the Norwegian ones, and whether the translation from English to Swedish and Norwegian is quite precise. Here I would like to point out that the agreements were negotiated in English. In case there was any doubt about the Swedish or Norwegian translation, you would go back to the English text. At this point the English text reads as follows: ‘4.3 b) prior to parity, approval of the Newco group business plan and consolidated budget of Newco including changes to the integration principles, reorganisations, restructurings and relocations of Newco’s subsidiaritys and business units.’; [[i]] I also want to come back to the fact that since the period between 30 March and 19 October, the Swedish wanted to address questions that would lead to changes in several points in the shareholder agreement. If they had disagreed with the Norwegian interpretation of the importance of voting rights for the determination of the location of the head offices of the business areas, it would not have been unnatural if they had included this in this context. They didn't. Finally, as regards the content of the proposition, I would like to say that a point has been made in the media today that some departments' consultation opinions on the draft proposal are not mentioned in the proposition. However, as far as I can see, the matters raised in the ministerial hearing opinions are, however, taken care of in the final text of the proposal. So for an exchange of letters on the content of the agreement, since it has also played a certain role: let me therefore comment on the exchange of letters that took place between the two councils in the autumn. Let me point out here that the letters clearly show that the Swedish Ministry of Economic Affairs had to know from the Norwegian side that governing decisions on the location of the management of the business areas were subject to the special voting rules of point 4.3(b) of the shareholder agreement. On 24 August 1999 the Ministry of Transport received a letter signed by the Departmental Council of Denmark Dag Thisr in the Swedish Ministry of Food. In this letter, claims were made that would have to result in renegotiation of parts of the shareholder agreement. I mentioned earlier that the exchange ratio was a topic. Another claim was made by the future Board of Directors, which had not yet been formally elected, and could therefore not take binding decisions for the company at that time. This requirement was formulated as follows: «The Interim Board shall promote detailed plans for organisations, head offices and business areas' location, both initially and in the 2 to 3 years' time.» It was also required that the outcome of the Interim Council Decision be presented to the parties for the position by 5 September at the latest. In other words, this would have meant that the owners, not the board, would have decided on the location issue, contrary to what was agreed in the principles of integration. On the basis of this letter, the Council of State found Færvoll to have to send a letter to the Council of State Rosengren on 26 August, where he asked him to confirm that the agreement still applies. He received a reply from the Council of State Rosengren on 30 August. Rosengren reserved that the EU Commission would grant its authorisation, but confirmed otherwise that the agreement would apply. I quote: ‘If, after all, such permission would be given, the agreement will of course continue to apply.’ The authorisation of the European Commission was granted on 13 October. So the agreement would apply. In his reply of 1 September, the Minister for Transport wrote to the Council of State Rosengren: ‘The issues referred to here are regulated in Section 5.1 of the Shareholder Agreement and Annex 3A. The Agreement provides that decisions on these matters are to be governed by the special voting rules set out in point 4.3(b) of the Shareholder Agreement. [[i]] On 23 September 1999, the Council of State of Rosengren wrote a letter to the Council of State of Færvoll. I quote from this letter: «In the light of the recent discussion between us and our officials on certain fundamental issues relating to the Telia/Telenor merger, I would like to stress that the agreements reached and approved by the parliamentary assemblies in our countries as well as the associated principles of integration should, of course, be respected.» In the same letter he addressed the relationship between owners, board and group management: «I would also like to stress that relations between the owners, the board and the executive management shall follow common principles deriving from the Swedish public limited liability company.» State Council Færvoll confirmed in a letter the same day that he shared Rosengren's views. I see in the press that a point has been made that the Swedish company law law has been agreed by the Swedish Council of State. Let me therefore first clarify: the Swedish Stock Exchange Act did not refer to the Swedish Stock Exchange Act's rules and letters. He refers to the "common principles" of the law. One such principle is that shareholders may conclude shareholder agreements that complement and clarify the rules of the law in those areas where the Share Act is not mandatory. Another principle is that such shareholder agreements are, of course, binding on shareholders and must be complied with by them. The relationship between owners, board and group management is regulated in the Chapter of the Shareholder Agreement. 4 and 5 and comply otherwise with ordinary Swedish share law. So that doesn't make sense by agreeing that special rules would apply in certain decisions. At this point, therefore, the Swedish owner was obliged to ensure, if necessary by instruction, that the rules were followed. I would like to remind you that we are talking about a Swedish registered company. This applies, of course, to the Swedish Stock Exchange Act for those matters that are not specifically mentioned in the shareholder agreement. But we had a shareholder agreement, and in it, special voting rules were agreed. This was done to ensure the balance between the two countries for a limited period until sales to so-called ‘parity’ had been made. In his letter of 23 September 1999, where the Council of State of Rosengren referred to «common principles» in Swedish share law, he therefore stated that the agreements that were concluded should of course be respected. I would also like to mention that in an interview at Telecom Revy on 30 September 1999, director Jan Åke Kark asked the following question: ‘Will this double voice be decisive in the location selection of parts of the establishment in the event of different views from the two countries?’ He replied to this – and I think it was actually good black – the following: ‘ No, it can’t. On strategic issues, there must be agreement and acceptance from both countries and from the company on what is the most commercially viable.’ This should show that it was also accepted on the Swedish side that the shareholder agreement’s voting rules would apply with regard to the location of the management of business units. For the sake of order, I would like to inform you that I am of course making available all the letters mentioned in this statement, if the Storting would like to. So some words about interpretation of the agreement. Questions have also been asked about the prefix ‘re’ in the term ‘relocalisation’ instead of the term ‘localisation’. Before I go into the more philological details here, I would like to repeat that already what has been said so far about the background to the agreement and the correspondence between the owners, shows that we had no reason to doubt that there was a unified understanding of the agreement – it had the support of Governor Kark as late as the end of September. I'll still say a little bit about the relationship between the words ‘localisation’ and ‘relocalisation’. First, the company already has localised business units from the time of its establishment, because it is the existing business of the new company taking over. Any geographical change compared to the existing one at the time of the agreement will therefore be considered to be relocalisation. Secondly, the negotiations reveal what the parties' objective has been. Thirdly, it would be rather pointless if the first decision on the location of business units could be made by a simple majority, and then at any time a relocalisation issue could be raised for decision, but then the decision had to be taken by a qualified majority. Questions have also been raised as to whether voting rights should have been included in the statutes. I have already mentioned that there was a specific legal assessment of this, which showed that such a direct reflection of the shareholder agreement provisions was not considered possible. The solution was that the shareholders were obliged under point 4.5 of the Shareholder Agreement to instruct their members to vote in accordance with the voting rights rules of the Shareholder Agreement. To sum up, as regards the understanding on the Norwegian and Swedish sides that the shareholder agreement’s voting rights rules should be based, I would say the following: 1st@item: inlistbox The point of agreement was negotiated on the Norwegian initiative because the companies did not agree in time on the location of the management of the business units.2. The Norwegian Landfill Proposition, in which our understanding of the shareholder agreement and voting rights rules has been reproduced, was submitted to the Swedish Ministry of Economic Affairs and was otherwise examined at a meeting with two officials from each department, without any objections to this point from Sweden.3. Council of State Rosengren confirmed by letter of 30 August 1999 that the shareholder agreement will apply if the EU Commission accepted the merger. It did, as we know, the European Commission. In a letter dated 1 September 1999, the Council of State, Mr Færvoll, clarified that the special voting rights rules were applicable to localisation issues.4. Council of State Rosengren reiterated in a letter dated 23 September that the agreement should be respected.5. Chairman Jan Åke Kark said in an interview on 30 September that it was not appropriate to use a double vote in the board of directors on the location of parts of the business, and that there must be agreement and acceptance from both countries. After this, I believe that it was done that could reasonably be required to ensure that it was the same understanding on the Swedish and Norwegian sides that the shareholder agreement voting rules were to be followed by the board. However, although insurance and regulations are clear, there is also a need for constructive cooperation based on mutual trust and security in keeping agreements. When we looked at the disputed board meeting on 8 December, it was felt that this was not the case, despite the manager's insurance in an interview as late as 30 September, there was an unsustainable situation. The cooperation conditions of the new company's management and board subsequently became unsustainable. Therefore, we as owners had to intervene. When it was not possible to get the Swedish owner to instruct the Swedish board members unreservedly to comply with the shareholder agreement’s voting rules, we could risk new, similar conflicts later on. Then, in our opinion, it was best for Telenor to stop the merger work and negotiate a voluntary dissolution of the company. I have to conclude that, in my opinion, our position at this point is the only reasonable, and fully consistent with the proposition text. I also believe that what I have now explained shows that we have done what can reasonably be required to ensure that there was a common understanding of the interpretation at this particular point, and that until the ruling decision of 8 December we did not have reason to believe that the Swedish owners did not have the same understanding. This has been a big and complicated matter. As far as I am aware, this is the first time that two state companies were to merge across borders, and therefore, of course, we in Norwegian teams did not have experience of such processes. Before I finally said anything about what plans the Government now has for Telenor, I would like to recall this clear starting point: the Norwegian and Swedish states had entered into a binding agreement between themselves on the rights and obligations of the merged company. The agreements also included further regulation of voting in the board of directors. Central board members had themselves been involved in the preparation of the agreement and had also publicly stated that the voting rules applied to the location of the business areas. Compliance with such contractual obligations is essential in all circumstances. Nor has it been disputed that the shareholder agreement is valid and binding on the parties. In my opinion, the suggestion that Norway has been ‘stupid’ is to turn the matter upside down. We have to assume that agreements are to be kept. So on the further plans for Telenor as a company: there is a budget agreement between the Government and the Right and the Advance Party, which involves the partial privatisation of Telenor AS. I also intend to keep this agreement. The government will later come back to the Stortinget with proposals on how this should be done, since the merger between Telenor and Telia is not implemented. I see it as very important that Telenor comes into normal function as soon as possible. A temporary board of Telenor AS has therefore been set up without representatives of the Swedish owners. The equivalent is done for Telia AB. In order to establish the Board of Directors in a timely manner, this will be composed up to now of the four Norwegian representatives of the Board of Directors of the Joint Company plus employees’ representatives from Telenor. An ordinary Governing Board will be appointed at a later date. The work of clarifying how the shares of Telenor and Telia are to be returned to the Swedish and Norwegian states respectively and the merged company is dissolved is already under way. States have a common interest in this as soon as possible. However, there are a number of practical and legal issues that need to be clarified through closer negotiations, on the one hand, between countries and on the other, between companies on the other. I cannot now say at what time the negotiations will be concluded. Both the Ministry of Transport and Telenor are working to identify how costs incurred and decommissioning costs are to be distributed. It is also necessary to clarify whether issues of a fiscal nature may arise in the context of the liquidation. Telenor’s board will now deal on a commercial basis with the issues where Telia/Telenor has committed itself jointly or under the direction of the new company in investment projects, etc., and where both parties consider it necessary to clarify the management and accountability of the project in a timely manner in order to be able to continue the project. If Telia and Telenor themselves find solutions that are considered satisfactory for both parties, the Ministry considers it natural and appropriate that such solutions be implemented as soon as practicable in order to avoid deterioration in value and possible loss of reputation for both parties. It is also examined whether the dissolution requires notification to the EU Commission under the EEA Merger Regulations. Regardless of whether such notification should be necessary, there is no reason to expect objections to the resolution itself. In addition to costs within the ordinary operating budgets of the Ministry of Transport, an additional 18 million have been allocated. 1999 kr. In 1998, it accounted for 1.8 million. DKr and so far in 1999 nearly 15 million. in the case of expert assistance. More concrete overview of the costs incurred will be brought back to Stortinget by the Government. In this situation, Telenor must be able to enter into binding agreements on a commercial basis in view of the fact that companies are to operate as quickly as possible in the normal course of their business separately. The Government will, of course, explain to the Government the outcome of these negotiations as soon as possible after they have been completed. Questions have been raised through the media about the voluntary dissolution of the company without any claim for compensation in connection with the winding-up of the company, either by its owners or by the companies. The starting point for this is that when the breach was a fact, the choice was between a settlement through the judiciary, possibly arbitration, and a settlement based on agreement. I saw it so that the first option would open up a lengthy process of making different claims from the parties against each other. Such a process would, by all likelihood, have been for years and created major wounds both between the two companies and the two states, with which no one would have earned. In any event, counterclaims would be quickly promoted, and having a potential claim against it by an exchange introduction would undoubtedly lead to a deterioration in Telenor’s value. Finally – and now it’s coming to the end: I have now made a statement that many people probably think is detailed and comprehensive, not least in terms of the shareholder agreement and voting rights rules. I have found this correct because of the focus that has been on precisely these matters, and the great importance of the matter. As the presentation has shown, there have recently been growing cooperation problems in the management of the new company. This was in itself an unfortunate situation for a company to be listed on the stock exchange. We experienced repeated attempts from the Swedish side to do what would in practice involve changes in the contract work. The Governing Board meeting on December 8th was divided by voting in the middle, which in itself is unfortunate. It also proved impossible to gain respect for the voting rules of the shareholder agreement. Then the situation became unsustainable, and it became impossible to move forward in the merger process. It would have been very desirable that this project had succeeded. But in the present situation and in the light of the responsibility of the government as owner, we found that the best thing is negotiations on voluntary dissolution.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e453	The President will now open up the opportunity for the various party groups to comment on this presentation. The duration of the comments may be up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e456	I would first like to thank you for the presentation. It was long and detailed, but it does not, in my opinion, give adequate answers to the many questions raised. It should therefore be sent to the Committee for Treatment. The matter has many serious aspects. The idea behind the association, of developing a Nordic flagship in telecommunications and the IT industry that could survive in the increasingly strong international competition, came precisely because of the conditions that have developed around us. It was, in the government's opinion, as presented in the proposal of the Stortinget, great gains to draw from such an association. Now that it doesn't matter, we're missing out on corresponding possibilities. Other state enterprises too can lose value and have difficulties in making alliances abroad. In order to prevent similar events from happening again, we need to ask ourselves how it has been possible to bring Norway into the chaos we saw before the collapse. The questions that need to be answered in the subsequent examination are: Were the cooperation conditions so bad before the agreement was concluded that it should not have been concluded? When did it become clear that the cooperation conditions of the new company that was formed were unsustainable? The correspondence between the state councils of Færvoll and Rosengren revealed that there were different interpretations of the shareholder agreement. Why, then, was it not provided for the necessary clarification? Today, it has emerged through the Evening Post that several departments warned against ambiguities in the merger agreement. Why was nothing done, and why did this not happen to the Stortinget? The Labour Party has always defended the Norwegian interests. We even warned in strong order the government against negotiating – with the Norwegian management of the company as an effort. With regard to the Swedish Government's demand to link the acceptance of voting rights rules and changes in the company's management, as the Prime Minister has now explained, we are pleased that the Government rejected this; it was otherwise, after advice and pressure from several parliamentary leaders. We never asked questions about the Norwegian Government's preparation and handling of the matter while the dispute with Sweden started. But now we have to be able to ask if the Norwegian government has done too bad a job. I have noticed that someone claims that the majority of the Biggest should be low because it was this majority who wanted the merger. To that I would say: it was the government that resumed the negotiations in the autumn of 1998 after there had been a break in the negotiations in February. The government has conducted negotiations with Sweden, the government has advised Stortinget to sign the agreement, the government is responsible for the correctness of the information it provides to the Stortinget. If the Government would not entrust the agreement, or could not at any time take responsibility for its implementation, the Government would have to notify the Stortinget. It hasn't. Of course, the parties who thought it was important to conduct the negotiations on an association did not benefit from any final result or from the government's handling of the matter. Personally, I said the following to NTB in February 1998: I want an association, but not at all costs. In the government's proposal for Stortinget, it was emphatically stated that there were clear rules in the shareholder agreement that would ensure that there were two equivalent companies that were to be merged. Let me say that I support the Prime Minister's understanding of the agreement itself. The problem is that this was not quite clear from the Swedish government's proposal to the Riksdag, and also that the correspondence did not clarify this, but on the contrary it revealed that there was confusion and not the same understanding on the two sides of the cold, such as this. Torger Reve has also underlined. This ambiguity was not clarified in; it seems to be critical. The Labour Party wants answers to all the questions I have raised here, and other questions. We will deal with the matter without any other reason than the facts of the case. Finally, several recent cases suggest that the Government has problems dealing with the fact that Norway is part of an international economy. It's actually pretty important that we can be that in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e490	Having heard the Prime Minister's very thorough and good account of the situation, I very much want to make a proposal with this wording: The Stortinget regrets that the Swedish Government under the leadership of Prime Minister Göran Persson and his Minister of Economic Affairs Björn Rosengren did not comply with the provisions of the Shareholders Agreement to instruct the Swedish Governing Board members to comply with the voting rules in paragraph 4.3(b) and that the Swedish Government conducted its members of the Board via its Political Commissioner, the Ministerial Council Day, this, to allow national political considerations to prevail over the business conduct of the group administration in connection with the relocation of the 12 business units. – I said I would like to, but I am not going to make such a proposal, as it is not normal to make proposals after a presentation in the kind of debate we have, and it is not normal to make proposals that are directed against the government of another country and not their own. My first question to the Prime Minister is: Will he confirm in clear text – he has spent almost an hour doing it indirectly in a slightly unclear text – that it is the Government's view that this was a breakdown because the Swedish Government did not comply with the provisions of the Shareholder Agreement? I think it should come in clear terms, because at the end of the presentation when it was about lawsuit, it was claimed that there could be legal proceedings against both parties. I am unable to see any basis for any action by the Swedish Government or Telia AB against Telenor or the Norwegian Government and the Norwegian State. There is a breach or a lack of follow-up by the Swedish government of an agreement that Minister Rosengren said is to be followed ‘of course’, which is why this did not work. And I also want to stress what the Prime Minister said, because Minister Rosengren of the Swedish Parliament yesterday said that he had been familiar with the Norwegian understanding, he would not have signed the agreement. He has admitted himself that he has not read a letter from the Norwegian Minister for Transport. I allowed myself to ask a little clumsy questions about it because he could not read. But he cannot have read his own proposition to the Swedish Parliament, which the Prime Minister also quoted from where it says: «The decisions requiring special rules include the business plan of the new group and its group budget, the approval of major organisational changes and the appointment and removal of executive directors and deputy directors as long as they take place before the parity.» «Approval of major organisational changes» – do you really believe on the Swedish side that relocalisation of the 12 business units is not subject to major organisational changes? That's of course a thing, and it says his own proposition. I don't know if the word rudeness is approved parliamentary, I guess I'll know that afterwards, but I'll use that expression about the Swedish Minister of Industry when, after writing this, he suddenly constructs problems. It's also true that when you say from the Swedish side that they took business considerations, and not political, national considerations, it's actually the reverse relationship that's right. After all, they have their own ministerial council, which is responsible for the matter in the department, as a member of the board of directors, and according to the vice-president of the board, Hofstad, he has conducted by nodding and waving director Kark, among others. to use the double voice, despite the fact that Kark himself has said that he would not be able to do so in that particular case. So my final question to the Prime Minister is: Why in the world has the Norwegian government already denied the right to bring an action against the Swedish state? There has been an added value in the merger of NOK 100 billion. That means you have already denied the possibility of a compensation of between 10 and 20 billion kroner. It's a couple of rickshospitals. Why has the Norwegian Government so easily and without any further discussion renounced the right to bring an action against the Swedish State for breach of the terms of the shareholder agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e508	The representative, Mr Hagen, is probably right in saying that this is a debate in which, perhaps, no proposals should be made, in particular, no mistrust of the government of another country. The President would probably also be of the opinion that one should reserve the shells of those who were present, and not throw them over the fridge.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e511	The formation of companies through the merger of Telia and Telenor stranded on December 16 after a rather turbulent history. How could it happen that this company, to which so many expectations were attached, where the owners seemed to agree that the merger had been both industrially and commercially right for the two companies, and where, through negotiations, agreement had also been reached on all key issues, could nevertheless go against a breach? It may not be easy to find adequate answers, but we believe that the Prime Minister's statement today answers a number of the questions asked by the representative, Mr Jagland, and also makes it clear that neither the parties' ability to understand what the agreement was actually about, nor the lack of legal and formal anchoring of the contract documents in terms of understanding the main issues, nor a lack of communication between the owners that could cause a different interpretation of the contractual relationship. In my opinion, the detailed review by the Prime Minister of all these matters demonstrates that the Government and the Council of State responsible have done what can reasonably be required to ensure that such shortcomings and misunderstandings arise. On the other hand, there is a lot of evidence that the Swedish board members are unwilling to follow the spirit and letter of the agreement in practice. When Chairman Jan Åke Kark of Telecom Revy, on 30 September, explicitly confirms in an interview that it is not appropriate to use the double voice of the board on matters relating to the location of parts of the business, and then to force such a decision with its double voice in the case of the mobile device only two months later, then this is a talkative expression of a lack of willingness to follow up the agreement – possibly believe that the company can succeed, and perhaps both are – which is a fundamental prerequisite for success in the idea behind the formation of a company. This was not a decision made in vain or in good faith; on the contrary, the director was strongly warned of the serious consequences this could have for the further work on the merger. When it was also not possible to get the Swedish owners to intervene and instruct their board members to comply with agreed agreements, then there could no longer be any basis to proceed with the merger. Nor does it improve the case that the responsible Swedish specialist council claims not to have seen important letters in this context, addressed to him. How many times and how many ways to repeat an important premise can be discussed if there is reason to believe that the other party should have difficulty in seeing the facts in a matter, but the board decision of 8 December with Governor Jan Åke Kark's double voice, together with what he explained in that interview, shows that this is not the point. There is no lack of understanding here, but simply of willingness to follow the agreement and the rules of the game laid down there, and then there was also a lack of the basic prerequisite for the success of the business as expected by the owners. It is, of course, in place that critical questions are asked in Stortinget when such an important project cannot be implemented. Has the Government satisfactorily taken care of all the important formal and legal aspects of the merger process? Has mutual information and understanding between owners been ensured in a good enough way? Has the information obligation and documentation towards Stortinget been complied with? I believe that the Prime Minister's thorough statement today demonstrates that the government's management has been fully satisfactory, both in relation to the company and what can reasonably be required in terms of proper follow-up to the owners. This has neither self-confidence nor pure flour in the bag to do, as VG claims today. It has to do with a job that needs to be done properly. Let me just end by stressing an important point that the Prime Minister also mentioned in his speech, that all the world's finess and formalities cannot save a company if it is not based on reliable cooperation and a common strategy between the owners and in the board and in the relationship between management and the board. Unfortunately, that was not the case here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e533	Let me also thank you for this presentation. It was a very comprehensive and detailed account, but I think it was a right choice of the Prime Minister to use the opportunity to give as many details as possible in this matter. There is no doubt that the situation we have come up with is very regrettable and should be looked at seriously, because the very idea of a merger, an association, was a very correct idea. It would give a more powerful company, and it would give significant added value, which Norway as well as the shareholder would have directly enjoyed. Therefore, it is very regrettable from the lost opportunities and the lost values, and, in the case of Telenor, from the lost time, that there was no such association. I also think there is a setback for similar Norwegian-Swedish cooperation, because it will naturally be a restraint against new projects. It is also a question of whether the seriousness of other interests of the country does not indicate. It may, as Vice-Chancellor Reve has pointed out in the newspaper, be negative to the value of other governmental interests, because the outside world gets the impression that in Scandinavia there is a mix of business and policy that is not appropriate. And then the question is, how in all days could it go so that the least untied in such a situation became a solution? Now the Prime Minister was quite diplomatic on this point, but I nevertheless perceived him as the unwillingness of Sweden to follow up the intentions that are at the heart of the matter. But it's strange that it was like 100 pst. So it's right to go out for a while. Therefore, it is important in itself that the Storting goes into this matter carefully and that it is sent to the committee. I have also reacted that someone outside this hall has been concerned that since a majority wanted us to investigate the associations, Stortinget must be careful in its review of the case. I do not share this view, yes it is rather that when the Storting had a vision and intention in this matter, it is important that this intention is also implemented. Once a decision has been taken, the Government has, of course, responsibility 100 p.m., as the Prime Minister in other contexts has rightly stated. But when I have followed the debate, among others: in relation to the budget over a few years, the concept of responsibility seems to be under pressure. Of course, in terms of both the information and the conduct of the duties, it is only 100 pst. liability in force. With regard to the issues that need to be addressed in more detail during the committee and wholesale treatment, it is not least the question of whether the contract work was good enough. The Prime Minister now provided a fairly comprehensive explanation of why the contract work has become as it has become, but the fact remains that this contract work has not opposed the pressure that has been in the matter. Just when it's problematic initially, and it's known, the agreements have to be written very carefully, and it's therefore important that the Storting goes in and assures itself that this is really done in this case. I record that the Prime Minister says that all documents will be made available, and I think that is good. The second thing is, when such big interests are out and going, how did you get into a situation where it obviously had to be improvised part at the end? And at least you can wonder after hearing the statement that it was improvised as much at the end as it was done, and I guess I didn't fully grasp the strategy at any time. I am not in any doubt that the Swedish Government is to the greatest extent prosecuting in this matter, but that is exactly why it is also important that the strategy is clear: what has been done to ensure that we do not end up in the situation that has arisen? The Prime Minister was also about a number of things about the future. I think that's good, not least that he confirms the listing and sub-privatisation, as we've agreed. It will have to go further into this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e554	A little more than six months after the Stortinget dealt with the merger of Telenor AS and Telia AB, Stortinget is today discussing the dissolution of the merged company. The thorough and detailed statement by the Prime Minister illustrates in many ways why what the Stortinge in May described as a ‘strong Nordic teleconser’ was nevertheless not stronger than the fact that it crashed before it had come onto the rails properly. The main impression that one is left with is that the Swedish owners were not willing to comply with the rules of the shareholder agreement that was a fundamental prerequisite for the merger of the two companies. In the vote on the motion for a resolution adopted by the Stortinget in June, the majority of the Committee on Transport was crystal clear in its clarifications of the prerequisites for the acceptance of the agreement. Indeed, the majority provided that the location of the management function should be carried out in such a way as to ensure a balance between the activities of the two countries and that the decision on the allocation of management functions should ‘be subject to the special voting rules established in the shareholder agreement, i.e. at least one shareholder-elected representative from each country must agree to the decision.’;» It can't be said more clearly. And why the Progress Party and the Right would not be involved in this clarification, is a mystery that only the parties themselves can solve. As stated in the Prime Minister’s statement, the voting rights rules of the shareholder agreement and those assumptions of the Storting were not acceptable to the Swedish owners, if they were respected. The government had full political back coverage when it demanded the Swedish will to comply with the shareholder agreement, and that the consequences would otherwise have to be a dissolution of the merged companies. When this became an inevitable conclusion, it serves both the two governments to the credit that the resolution was made in courtesy and without the strong results that had so far marked the debate. This, hopefully, means that the practical sharing of the dwelling can also be done in a quick and tidy way that does not cause unnecessary damage to the two companies. I see no need to go into the extensive correspondence that has taken place between the owners of the two countries, represented by the Norwegian Minister for Transport and the Swedish Minister for Industry respectively. I can't see that this correspondence raises the main question, namely whether the Swedish owners were willing to instruct their board members in accordance with the terms of the shareholder agreement. The fact that the Council of State, in a letter dated 23 September, agreed with Mr Rosengren's views, cannot be alarming when Rosengren in his letter, among other things. Stresses that the agreement approved by the parliaments of the two countries ‘will be respected’. The fact that Swedish stock law applies to a company that has its head office in Sweden is undisputed. But the shareholder agreement just came about because the Swedish share law alone did not deliver Norwegian interests in a good enough way. Paragraph 9.8 of the Agreement states that even if there is a conflict between the provisions of the Agreement and the provisions of the Statute, the contract shall take precedence. No government has power that can force the government of another country to instruct its directors to comply with a signed agreement. The government has, in my opinion, acted very neatly. I find it difficult to see that the Government could have dealt with this matter in a different and better way, and the statement and the articles that have come so far in the debate do not, in my opinion, add to this main conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e568	Prime Minister Bondevik has been proselytizing his own case for about an hour. SV agrees that the statement is sent to the Committee and we cannot currently exclude weaknesses in the legal review of what the Prime Minister has given. But SV also agrees with what Steensnæs of the Christian People's Party was about, namely that not all the world's finesse necessarily give us all the answers. We believe that the main misappropriation made by the Government is the assessment of whether there was an actual cooperation climate on the basis of which to merge the two companies Telia and Telenor. It is not a fine light, it is a political assessment. And in our opinion, the Prime Minister's thorough review is an eternal description of recurring power struggles. This has not been a secret until now. What is at the heart of the matter in relation to the suspension of the merger, namely the lack of respect for the equivalence clause in the agreement, was the reason why the agreement was terminated for the first time in 1998. It is the ongoing struggle between understanding what kind of agreements should be. In the opinion of the SV, the worst assessment is the government has made, that it has not asked itself the question along the way every time these games have come up: Look, is there really a basis for a merger of these companies? Then SV believes that at an earlier point in time it had actually not been. In Swedish, we are also afraid that the little-honoured round that the Government experienced in the Stortinget in 1998 – when the majority of the population asked the Minister for Transport Dørum to continue negotiating with Telia and Telenor – spooked at the back of the government. That's not the same thing as depriving the government of responsibility for what's actually happening. But it can give us a little bit of insight that the government's political judgment has been paralysed by tabooism. This does not guarantee that the case has been thoroughly assessed in the course of the investigation. Nor do we think that the bulk of the population is particularly honourable about the treatment of the agreement. It has been publicly known what kind of dispute there has been between Swedish and Norwegian owners and Swedish and Norwegian companies in this matter. It is strange in retrospect that it is only SV's Inge Myrvoll who points out the weakness in the setting that you create a construction based on cooperation, because the owners have not agreed in advance. Many people have compared this to a broken marriage. If we were to take a location case from the marriage front that many people would recognize, namely, about where to celebrate Christmas this year, everyone knows that you do not go to the marriage contract if it is such that your dear husband insists on going home to Mom as he did last year, and that because he has the car key, he has a double voice. [[Laughter]] Then you call home to your mother and say, "He doesn't respect me, this can't go." That's the assessment the government has left behind. In SV we believe it is a very bad idea to privatize Telenor. We believe, on the contrary, that the government should stand on what it really believes: break the agreement with the Right and the Advance Party and not allow itself to be led into privatisation deadlines, and that everyone remembers that this would not even have been a case if Telenor had not been a state owned company. If Telenor had been a privatized company, it would not have been possible to have the discussion on the location of mobile telephony. Finally, I have a prayer to join my co-representatives. That's to end with the most serious Swedishness. In a neighbouring crane, it is often the case that the other neighbours like to blame both Hansen and Svensson. That's why it's a book for both of us. From the home front, I can report that the binoculars are no longer afraid of the rungs, and I recommend the closing chapters in the Christmas saga on the NRK on both sides of the cold.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e585	The Prime Minister gave a good and thorough presentation and focused on what has been discussed. It was a little strange to hear Thorbjørn Jagland's posts. It did not seem particularly adapted to the sound documentation of the statement. I think the statement is a good recording of the Storting's treatment of what happened before and after the telefusion. The statement confirms the impression that the Government has handled this matter in a thorough and proper manner. At least I can't see that it's been revealed critically. Nevertheless, it is natural to look at what has happened, in a critical light. The serious nature of the matter warrants it. It is important to go thoroughly through the case and the course of events to see if you can gain useful experience from what has happened. It may also be timely to look at the way in which such a large project is organised, and the way in which the negotiations are organised. Given the nature of the matter, I have no difficulty in understanding that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the SV have a critical but waiting attitude. I am somewhat more surprised that the Workers' Party has chosen to let bombastic and very critical comments be their contributions since the merger break became known. From such a point of view, there is a risk of interpreting the data generated in retrospect, on the basis of the relatively fixed position in which they are placed. There must be occasion to wonder that the Labour Party's foremost spokesman in this case, Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, just minutes after he was made aware of the merger break, believed to know enough for the media called a crushing criticism, and skin braided the Government because it had allegedly done a bad job and damaged Norwegian interests. Today I hear that Thorbjørn Jagland says that there is a basis for further investigation to see if the government has done a bad job. At least it's going the right way. I asked myself what was the reason why the Workers' Party had such a haste to be non-slip in this matter. The Prime Minister has explained in a good manner the facts and has explained the legal back cover the Government believes it has. But if there is no willingness to comply with an agreement, there is no basis for trusting cooperation. I also assume that no one, at the very least the Labour Party, can believe that it is critical of the Government to trust and trust Swedish social democrats. There is evidence that the Swedish were aware of the interpretation of the contentious points of the agreement, including: it appears with the desirable clarity of Chairman Kark's interview with Telecom Revy on 30 September, in which he expresses his opinion on the use of the double voice quite identical to that of the Norwegian opinion. It is claimed that the merger collapsed because the agreement was too poor and inadequate. My particular impression is that what caused problems for the Swedes is that the agreement was too good for Norway. The Swedes were dissatisfied with the exchange relationship, and the Swedes were dissatisfied with the fact that the shareholder agreement provisions on voting rights provided good protection for the various actors. It is clear from the Prime Minister’s statement that the Swedish have tried to change both the terms of exchange and the shareholder agreement. When it became clear that Norway would actively use the clear provisions of the agreement, it was understood that the ambition to make the company completely Swedish dominated could not be achieved. That, in my opinion, is the background for the merger to collapse.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e602	I will try briefly to comment on some of the questions raised by the parliamentary leaders in the round we have now had. I think it is natural and wise, although I should not interfere in the Storting's handling of the matter, that the statement goes to committee treatment. I don't mind. The parliamentary leader of the Labour Party, Thorbjørn Jagland, asked the question whether the cooperation conditions were not so bad before the conclusion of the agreement that the agreement should not have been concluded. As I explained, on this issue, we have had a close consultation on all the crucial points with the Telenor Board of Directors and later with the four Norwegian shareholders of the Joint Governing Board. They recommended the Government to go further in the draft terms of merger and the process if specific requirements were met. They were also, as we know, even in the negotiations and so that such demands were met, and therefore we found it right in consultation with Telenor's board to proceed with the merger. This will also be the answer to one of the questions asked by the SV parliamentary leader, Kristin Halvorsen. So we were in close contact with Telenor's board of directors, later the shareholders of the joint board, and we acted in accordance with them. When Telenor's board chose to go further if the claims were met, and they were, there should have been very strong reasons why a government should have accepted such a recommendation, when we know what gains the merger might have created. I would at least think it could have created the basis for significant criticism if we had done so. Ichland also asked the question about when an unsustainable situation occurred. As I explained, the cooperation situation was difficult already before the Governing Board meeting on 8 December, but it was during and after the Governing Board meeting that the situation became unsustainable, as we assessed it, because we had reason to believe – see. the interview with Chairman Kark as late as 30 September – that voting rights rules would be followed even when the location of business unit management would arise. That's why the situation only became unsustainable after what was said in the past was not happening. Ichland also raised the question of hearing opinions from several departments, such as is reproduced in the media today. I would like to draw attention to the fact that these statements are those of normal ministerial consultation when a proposition is drawn up. And as I said in the statement, I believe that the contents of the comments that came from these departments are preserved in the final text of the proposition. I also understood that Iland felt that the Government had not done what was necessary to clarify the ambiguity of the voting rules. As I put the emphasis on in my statement, I actually believe that we have done what can reasonably be required to bring about such clarity. And we think that's all reason to believe that on the Swedish side they were aware of the content of these voting rules. It appeared, as I said, among other things: by the interview with Jan Åke Kark, the Swedish director. Then one comes to a point where it can't be a question of demanding even more insurance, but that one must simply rely on trust and faith in keeping agreements, and that what has been said is done, as also the parliamentary leaders of the Christian People's Party and SV, Einar Steensnæs and Kristin Halvorsen, strongly underlined. So I guess the Labour Party's parliamentary leader also said that several things indicate that the Government does not have the power to deal with matters in an open international economy. I have to say that I am quite surprised at such a general characteristic. In fact, I believe that the Government in general has handled international policies in a good way, and has also dealt with international economic issues in a reassuring way. Why this case ended up as it did, I have explained, and I believe that it is not the Norwegian Government to blame. – I understand that time is up, but I ask for permission to answer the questions of a couple of parliamentary leaders. If not, I'm sorry, but...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e624	With the permission of Tinget, the President will open it up. Looks like the Prime Minister has.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e627	Then I would also like to comment on the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party, Carl I. Hagens, asking if I would say in clear terms that it was broken because the Swedish government did not follow up the shareholder agreement. It was quite thoughtful what I said on this point, which I also believe was what I said on the others. Let me say it again: I believe that the Swedish shareholders did not act in accordance with the shareholder agreement’s voting rules. Nor was it possible for the Swedish owner to instruct these board members unreservedly to re-treat under the shareholder agreement’s voting rules. Then I find it not necessary or proper for me as Prime Minister to go into this in more detail. To Hagen's question as to why the government has renounced the right to claim compensation: because, as said, such claims would have led to a year-long conflict of law, which in itself, I think, would have been harmful to Telenor. Any counterclaims, which one of them had to expect, even if they were not well justified, would degrade the value of a company to be listed on the stock exchange. For these reasons, we found it best to close this case in amicably with the Swedish government. To the Right parliamentary leader, Jan Petersen, I would like to say that of course I fully agree with Petersen that when a decision is taken in the Stortinget, it is the responsibility of the Government 100 pst. to follow it up. I believe that responsibility has been respected by the Government. That is why we have gone into the matter so thoroughly and made such a thorough explanation for the Storting today. There was also a question from Petersen about why so much has been improvised. As my statement showed, we experienced several questions from the Swedish side that we thought had been resolved for the longest time, and which would also have involved in practice changes to the contract work. We really didn't have reason to believe that when the agreement was due, and then you have to deal with the situation there and then. We've meant, and the statement has shown that we stood firm. The Council of State also postponed its departure to Stockholm, because we did not accept what would have been changes to the agreement. It then fell into place because of our firm attitude. So I think we've had a firmness and a strategy in this. As for SV's parliamentary leader's posts, it was natural enough that SV voted against aggregation, and her questions as to whether we did not ask questions along the way about whether there was a basis for aggregation, I have answered. We asked that question several times, because there were proposals from the Swedish side that would have involved changes to the agreement. We held a very close consultation with Telenor's board about this, and I have responded to why we chose to move on. Finally, after the Norwegian Government's assessment, it was unfortunate that this project did not work. So I believe that the government has done it to someone who could reasonably demand it to succeed. When it did not come to that, the government was responsible for the best possible outcome of the case, and in agreement with the Swedish government, I believe that we have found the best possible outcome, and we are still going to live with and have a good relationship with our Swedish neighbor.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e642	The President will now propose that the Prime Minister’s statement under point (c) of the first paragraph of Section 34a of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting should be sent to the Committee on Transport. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e654	I'll try to adjust the voice volume, so that I can reach those who have to be left in the hall! On behalf of the Defence Committee, I present Innst. S. No 84 on changes to the 1999 State Budget under the Ministry of Defence. It's a unanimous setting. The suspension departs from the Government's proposal on one point and it is justified in its observations. I'll pretty briefly account for this change. This is because there has been a minor need for participation in the SFOR forces, which in total was estimated to be slightly more than 202 million. kr. The Committee has agreed with the Government’s proposal that 38 million be allocated to this amount. NOK for the purchase of armoured personnel vehicles and that 1,5 million. kr is used to cover the costs of staff officers involved in the operations on East Timor. The Committee therefore agreed. But then there is a slight change in relation to the Government's proposal, and I think that must be seen in a context that clearly explains why such redisposal is right to do. By St. Prp. No 14 and Inn. S. No 71 for 1996-97 shows that 300 million. kr was redispatched – or we shall say «borrowed» – from cap. 1760 item 45, i.e. the Defence Investment Chapter, to cover the costs of the IFOR operations in Bosnia. In this respect, there was a clear majority in the Committee, all with the exception of the Socialist Left Party, who said: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the member of the Socialist Left Party, agrees with the Ministry that these funds are re-assigned in addition to the budgetary framework when the need for additional investment funds is present.’;» That is what the Committee has now tackled, knowing that the investment funds for the defence far from meeting the needs that appear to be present. If the latter, I might get an opinion on my own behalf, so that no disputes arise about the need that may be present at any time. The Committee has now made it clear that a total of 155 million. NOK 300 million of these 300 million. the investment budget of the Defence Agency has been reduced and, in the light of this, the Committee considers that the 145 million should be taken. NOK that remains, so that you have reduced a total of 300 million. kr to the investment chapter, which was ‘borrowed’ in its time. So we've done the bill in this area. It's a pleasure to see that there's an overall committee that's doing this necessary cleanup. That means 107 million. In addition to what the Government itself proposes, such treatment is provided. It should be okay – this is how you have cleaned up in this loan company. It is important to stress that the Stortinget has later decided to have additional funding for international operations, and in view of that, it is also, in my opinion, a cleanness of what has now been done. I am particularly sorry that the Minister for Defence has adjusted this. In doing so, the Committee also notes that the defence is facing significant challenges. There's neither the time nor the place to go through this now. But with a reference back to the debate on the defence budget for next year, I think it will be quite clear that the reversal that is taking place here will help – albeit to a small extent, but at least to a certain extent – to correct some of the distortions that lie within the budgets, where there is no doubt in the year to come, and in the years that come if you do not take drastic action to correct it, there will be a misunderstanding between the total activity and the resources put to consultation, which could go beyond the investment budgets. There will be another debate. So finally, the Committee has joined the Ministry's proposal that Trökstad be transferred to the municipality of Trökstad. I believe that in the current climate, there is reason to stress that there are no specific obligations in terms of purely defence of the municipality of Trugstad in such a context. It's about opening up to the audience and not opening fire or doing anything else. But also the assumption that one cannot dispose of the property within ten years seems to be in line with the current situation and thinking. Furthermore, the Committee has made a transfer to the Municipality of Sola of buildings relating to the use of the War History Museum Rogaland. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e687	In short, like the committee's chairman, I am pleased that with this vote, we are getting a real boost in the defence budget for investment funds of 107 million. kr in addition to the scheme of the Government. There is a strong demand for funds in a situation where there is a very large gap between expected operational savings in the Defence Agency needed to finance the investments and actual results. But that's of course, as already said, good reason to remember that this is the repayment of borrowed funds, right from years ago. Still, it's joyous, because there's a tendency for old loans to be forgotten or downgraded in value. As you can see, it's time for this to happen through this operation. The time was now — all the time the starting point for the loan was the IFOR effort in Bosnia several years ago, and there is an effort that is now in essence being phased out in the fall of the Norwegian establishment in Bosnia.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e692	The rapporteur has explained the content of both the proposition and the setting. As I said before, it was in the Inner East. S. No 71 for 1996-97 redisposed from cap. 1760, item 45, 300 million. NOK to cover the costs of the IFOR operations in Bosnia. IFOR then went to SFOR, and the Norwegian contribution here is now significantly reduced. It represents a minor need of 202,535 million. DKK in the 1999 budget. In that position, a clear majority, all except SV, said that these funds should be returned if necessary. It's now $155 million back. kr. - That was the story. Time in the future has challenges. We know that we are now facing large material investments. Large new and heavy projects are on the agenda. It's giving rise to economic challenges. But I would also like to say here that it is an economic challenge to stabilise and then reduce the operating costs of Defence. So we've found it right now to return 107 million. kr in addition to the SEK 38 million of the proposal. kr. So that's the total sum that's returned to the cap. 1760, entry 45, now it's 300 million. kr. It wasn't our intention to do this at this point, it shows the proposition, but since the majority would take it already now, we found it right to support this in today's position. Then we start the new millennium with a little bit more blank paper, and the defense can afford a pencil or two.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e704	Only a few words associated with the return of funds to the material investment chapter. In recent years, an unfortunate practice has developed here in the house where an ever-exploited cape. 1760 as a kind of mixed mail for many different purposes. One example was that one took $300 million. kr to finance the operation in Bosnia. This is now being done, but we also have another example: not very long ago, it took 800 million. kr from this item, which resulted in a forced cancellation of a negotiated contract for a renewal of the Hercules fleet. This is a very unfortunate practice. There's two reasons why I'm taking it up and I want to point it out. One is that we are now implementing a rather hard-handed rationalization in Defence. Those who have been added to the defense are here, and all the time it's called that we need to rationalize the operation in order to get funds to invest. So, when one of them does this, one of a sudden takes the resources that one has saved through rationalization, and uses for other things. It's a very bad signal for them to add to the defense. The other reason is that it's very difficult to plan when a non-exposure can be certain that funds that are licensed will be used for the purpose for which they are ear-marked. Then it becomes very difficult. So I just want to raise all of a sudden -- and not least the Council of State -- about to end with this practice and not use a cap. 1760 as a mixed-up post anymore.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e711	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1626]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e725	The proposal in Document No. 8:15, promoted by the representative Siv Jensen, is a proposal for amendments to Section 76 of the Tax Act so that the deduction of dependance under this provision is limited to parents and children. As rapporteur of the case, I wrote to the Minister of Finance when examining this document No. The 8th proposal, and the Minister of Finance sent his comments by letter to the Committee of 9 November 1999. The comments show that the provisions apply to all taxpayers ‘who are dependants other than children for whom he/she is entitled to family allowances or dependants’. However, only if ‘it would be unreasonable to leave the supply ineffective when taxing the dependant’. The tax deduction is as you know NOK 5000 for each dependant. The deduction is also granted when the dependant lives abroad, but in such cases the deduction may be limited to actual expenditure. The provision for special deductions under Section 76 of the Tax Act includes Norwegians who are responsible for dependants other than children for whom he or she is entitled to child benefit or a dependant deduction. In the letter from the Minister of Finance, it is said that the Ministry of Finance: ‘does not have an overview of the number of taxpayers who charge a deduction for the care of residents of the rest of the world or the amount of deductions in total’. I would also like to stress that guidelines have been provided for the nature of the documentation to be required by the equality authorities for the rest of the world. It shall include, inter alia: evidence is required from the public authorities of the home Member State of the dependant in order to obtain support. The question of the authenticity of the documentation could always be a problem with the authorities of other countries, but the equality authorities may refuse to deduct from the tax law § 76 if they are not satisfied with the evidence provided. I would also like to stress that the statement in the letter from the Minister of Finance does not provide a basis for assumptions that deductions under Section 76 of the Tax Act are particularly extensive, or that there are particular problems relating to the deduction of persons living abroad. It has also included the majority in its comments on page 2 of the vote, stressing that: ‘The Ministry of Finance does not have an overview of the number of taxpayers who require a deduction from the care of persons residing abroad or the amount of the deduction to which it relates in total’. As regards the practice and documentation, it is further stated: ‘This majority asks the Ministry to examine in more detail whether it is linked to the special deduction scheme under the tax law § 76.’ With regard to the additional work of the equality authorities, the same majority asks ‘that the ministry return to the Stortinget in an appropriate document with proposals for changes to the tax law if such conditions are revealed’ — i.e. that there may be an abuse, the amount of the sums and this with evidence. However, on the basis of the writing with which the Minister of Finance has come to the Committee, the majority in this case does not find the basis to ‘beat to’ and say that we should now restrict and limit it. It is also made clear from the existing proposal for a decision that the document be annexed to the Protocol. We do not reject it, but we attach it to the protocol, precisely on the basis that we ask the Minister of Finance to come back with a more detailed explanation after he has obtained more information, etc., so that we can assess the whole more closely in connection with an amendment to Section 76, if we are going to go to that step.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e751	The background to the presentation of this proposal was inter alia: that the ‘State of the Kingdom’ programme of TV 2 found it difficult to identify the extent of the use of foreign dependant credit. And after going into the legislation relating to Section 76 of the Tax Act, it is reasonably obvious to me that the legislation is unclear and that it allows the use of judgement to a large extent. What surprises me is the rapporteur's presentation that the department is now being asked to monitor whether this scheme is being abused. I would like to ask the representative, Nordtun: what is the definition of abuse, when you have a system that actually allows you to get a deduction of dependance, not limited to close family members, but in and of anyone, as long as you can prove that you have the burden of caring for them? Then you have not abused a scheme. Although a pile of people abroad may be deducted, it has nevertheless remained within the framework of the legislation permitted by Norway. And that's what's the whole main point of my proposal, namely, to limit the right to a pensioner's allowance abroad to parents and children. Adherence to the Norwegian authorities will be easier, but in particular it will help to eliminate a suspicion against persons who require a dependant deduction. In my opinion, the Minister of Finance in his letter has been relatively positive about making inputs into solutions to this. Although the Minister of Finance is not 100 pst. agree with my proposal, for example. proposed to limit the burden of dependants to four persons, which he also says would be less resource-intensive for the authorities of the equation. Therefore, it surprises me that what the majority is doing now is instructing the Ministry of Finance and the tax authorities first to identify the scope of this scheme, i.e. to use considerable resources to find out something that the Ministry does not have an overview of today. The Ministry does not know how many people are demanding such deductions, nor do they know the amounts involved. I do not think that is necessary in itself, because what this document invites you to do is decide how many people you want to deduct from. And if you limit it, you automatically limit a number of other relationships. When it is then so clearly stated that in a number of cases the authenticity of documents from foreign authorities cannot be relied on, why do you have to have at the top of it all a code that opens up to such a great degree of discretion? I take this up with the proposal from the Progress Party, but I would also warn here that if our proposal falls, we will give subsidiary support to the proposal from the Right and the representative of the Bastisen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e762	Siv Jensen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e765	I can largely join most of what Siv Jensen said in his post. Like her, I am somewhat surprised at what the majority say in the vote, that the Ministry of Finance has to investigate in more detail whether it is linked to the system of special deductions for dependance, and whether it has led to great burdens on the bill of equations. How many taxpayers who require dependant deductions for residents of the rest of the world really have little role to play in the scheme itself, that is how the scheme is to be practised – and practised in the same way for all, I think it can be done – we are to take a stand to this day, not the amount and how many taxpayers this scheme applies. The right considers that the importance of family relationships should be given the same weight whether they are dependants living abroad or in Norway. As we interpret the wording of the Tax DG Equations-ABC, it is easier to obtain a deduction from living abroad compared to living in Norway. It's this practice that you're now going to get away from. We therefore think it is appropriate to tighten up the rules somewhat and that it is reasonable to limit them so that they are granted the right of deduction only for the care of parents and children. This is a reasonable consideration that I also think is generally shared by the population. We also agree that more stringent documentation requirements should be imposed. It is highly varied how this is now practiced by the individual Equation Offices. If we are not fully committed to the proposals of the Progress Party, it is because we believe that point (c) is too demanding. To follow the cost of living in the dependant's country of residence, we really don't think we have any purpose. With regard to point (a) of the proposal of the Progress Party, we assume that the Equation Act is applied in the same way to all taxpayers, even if it is a foreign liability. So we don't think that points a and c are necessary at all. That is why we have made a proposal that is on page 3 of the vote, which I am referring to here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e774	Kjellaug Nakkim has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e777	I refer you to the case spokesperson, the representative of Tore Nordtun, and I agree with what was said. I would like to add and clarify that the current right is that taxpayers who provide non-child benefits are entitled to child allowances or dependants’ allowances, are entitled to a special deduction in the income of NOK 5000 for each person who has a dependant responsibility. This also applies to people who are dependants and who live abroad. The proposal to amend legislation and practise this rule seems to be the reason for the need to strengthen the requirements for documentation, given the doubts about the content of the documentation provided by public authorities in the home country of the recipient. In his letter of 9 November, the Minister of Finance said that there is no current overview of the scope of such cases and to what extent there is reason to believe that it is difficult to apply this rule. That's why in the Center Party and the Center Party it's not proven that the amount of tax deductions and any equations problems are such that they would change the rule. However, if, after a closer assessment, the Ministry found that the scheme had an unintended effect and that it was difficult for the EGM powers to practice, we would ask, as the opinion states, that the Ministry should return in a proper way to the Stortinget with proposals for change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e786	The representative, Siv Jensen, asked me a few questions about why we could not already tighten up this system. Let me just make it clear that, as far as this paragraph is concerned, we are dealing with what the Minister of Finance has written in the letter to the Committee, where he clearly states that there are no abuses or problems of similarity in this matter. We're dealing with that, because § 76 is a good paragraph, it takes care of important things, and then we really have to have a basis to intervene and change it. Finally, I would like to stress that there is a slight difference between culture in the different countries, and limiting the system to just a small – positive – family-related, in my opinion, can be too limited. In our Norwegian culture, we need, also in the name of solidarity, to be part of and support a little bit outside the very immediate family, when it is properly documented.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e793	The representative of Nordtun has not yet answered my question, because what I asked about was why the majority of the committee goes in to ask the ministry to clarify whether the scheme is being abused. Then he comes up to the pulpit here and says that the Minister of Finance has explained that there is no abuse. It does not appear in the Minister of Finance's letter. In contrast, what we have here is: ‘It is proposed that only special allowances be granted for the care of children and parents living abroad, i.e. not for the care of siblings, siblings and other members of a large family. Such demarcation will reduce the number of deductions and simplify the procedure somewhat.’ Yes, then the Minister of Finance is right to say that a delimitation of the scheme will actually make work easier for the Ministry of Finance and the tax authorities. I don't understand that the majority doesn't see the difference. We have not invited a debate on whether the scheme is being abused or whether individuals living in Norway are demanding deductions for siblings and a number of other family members. I don't think that's the interesting question. Nor is it interesting how many millions of dollars are going out of the country, or how many special deductions you get. What's interesting is the question of principle, whether you want it to be entitled to deductions for the care of siblings and a number of other family members, or whether you want this to be defined. I don't understand that Tore Nordtun and the majority of the committee can't answer or decide.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e803	I'm sorry I didn't answer Siv Jensen's question. I just want to say that we take this matter very seriously. That is why the majority ask the Minister of Finance to have time to prove whether such abuse is actually taking place as is now claimed. Let me also say when you say that we have to make this easier, that of course we can make this easier by cutting out the entire section 76 and saying that we don't need it. But that's not our point. We still want Section 76 to provide this relief in the tax when you have a real dependant burden.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e810	The last one reminded me of the good story that it is possible to present now before Christmas, about the priest who had a manuscript where it said: Bad argument – raise his voice. The representative of Nordtun was not asked what he responded to. No one has proposed to abolish the whole paragraph, i.e. the right to deduct. That's why it's a very simple question to answer, when it's not asked by anyone. The question he was asked, I would like to reword to the following – on the basis of this letter from the Minister of Finance, which I see as a relatively obscure invitation to the Stortinget to clarify the rules: Why does not an opposition party like the Labour Party take that invitation and have a value point itself? I am not dealing with the question of abuse or not abuse of the system, but with the question: Who should the scheme include? How large should the relative concept be in a Norwegian tax rule? You'd think it was possible for a party like the Workers' Party to take its position. But here, you push the government in front of you like an obedient government party, almost to say, which, of course, doesn't normally have the habit of imposing things on their government councils that they don't want. But here in the letter, it's almost a wish from the Council of State even to get the Storting's opinion. So, in the Right's proposal, taken up by the representative, Mr Nakkim, we allow ourselves to have an opinion on how large the family circle the proposal should include. I do not understand that I am now directly rejecting it, but I want to link it to the question of abuse. With regard to what is said about unintended effects, one must first say something about what are intended effects if one is to say what are unintended effects. But for this, the Biggest, at least the majority after the election to judge, will just lie flat for and have no meaning for. I just want to ask the Minister of Finance – not the Nordtun representative, because I think that in many ways is a blind lead – since the assignment goes to the Minister of Finance, what he sees as unintended effects – one talks about if it is revealed that the right to deduct produces unintended effects. My question, to be quite specific, will be this: Does the Minister of Finance think that there are some limits to who you can invoke responsibility for dependants in another country and get a right to deduct?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e822	I am a little surprised at the purpose of this Document No. The 8-proposal after listening to the debate here. I thought I had got the core points of the proposal, but I'm getting a little uncertain. Because as I see it, the debate goes on at least two levels. The core point is, as it was now underlined, not the question of abuse or non-use. Nor has it been said from the department's side. The score is also not missing documentation, but the validity of the documentation provided. Therefore, from the government party's point of view, it is natural that the department goes a little closer to these questions and looks at whether § 76 is practiced in accordance with what is intended. For this purpose, we must not forget that there should be a possibility here for workers from other countries, from different cultures and with a completely different social auxiliaries from what we have in our country, to be able to get a deduction from people they actually support. It can be the sibling, it can be the children after the emaciated sibling, etc. Here the cultural differences are enormous. So if we narrowly, to simplify it, just compare with what is normal in Norwegian terms, I think we're going to fail enormously with the very purpose of our tax rule. The Council of State's letter states that the problem is not the law. The problem is not the documentation either, but as I said, the problem is: Can a person really trust the documentation that comes from his home country to the employee? And that's a little bit of a problem. There are some of these issues that we have wanted the ministry to come a little closer to, so that the Storting can get it back, if necessary, if it turns out that there are dubious moves out and going. When it comes to abuse, let me finally say: Abuse is not to be deducted from people who really support it. Abuse is that if a person who is not a dependant requires a deduction.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e833	I'm a little surprised at the way this debate has taken, and what weight the minority puts on what I see as relatively peripheral questions in the context of this. Abuse as defined by the majority of us is, of course, that you get a dependant deduction you don't have the right to. Now we know very well that in many countries, in fact also over the Internet, documentation can be obtained for almost what it might be. I myself have been offered both a degree in office and a bit of each one over the Internet, where you can certainly obtain the necessary documentation. That's something you have to switch on. But the fact that we're going to sit in Norway and sneak in, and in particular that it's the parties that are perceived as a set of values, that are occupied with family and dedicated to caring for each other, that are going to sneak into what you're actually going to get deducted from, is something else. Now you have to remember that it's a tax deduction in the country you're taxing and working in. This means that he has worked in Norway, paid taxes to Norway and thus earned a deduction because he has family in another country — family defined in a completely different way from what is our narrow core family definition. You don't have to go any further than any country, you'll see that there's a father family who's responsible for a lot of people. You are responsible for your wife’s men – you are responsible for everything, depending on the family situation. That you get the opportunity to deduct it, because you actually support it, I would think that the Progress Party and the Right would think it was a positive thing – that it was a positive thing in our tax system that we actually encouraged them to have the opportunity of education and health, which they might not have had the opportunity to do otherwise. That is why I think this debate has taken a very surprising course. What is important to address is any form of tax fraud and abuse. That is what the majority wants, not to narrow it down so that those who actually support people and need such a deduction, who are citizens of Norway or who live in Norway and work in Norway, do not get it. It's in itself a positive thing that you actually support other people.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e842	After I sent the letter of 3 November – and the letter is given in the setting – I thought that I had nothing more to contribute to the information about the matter, so I did not really intend to take the floor. But since I received direct questions from the representative Per-Kristian Foss, I still have the floor. Per-Kristian Foss had asked if there are any limitations to whom deductions can be made under Section 76 of the Tax Act. It's answered in the letter; there's no limitation in either number, relationship or other things. The only thing that is required is that you have a real livelihood and that it can be documented. But this was answered in the letter, so I do not feel that it was necessary to take the word for that reason – but as I said, the question was asked. So Per-Kristian Foss asked me what I wanted to put in the term unintended effects, which the majority of the committee operates with. Yes, it was better to ask those who have written the comment about what they meant by that. But for my part, I'm going to assume that what you're doing, for example. may incorporate the concept of unintended effects, it should be demonstrated that there is evidence of unjustified deductions, i.e. deductions even if there has been no real support. It had to be the case that there was some kind of false documentation. Then there's an unintended effect. If there are such things, I have no reason to have any opinion about, but I have then received a mandate from the bulk of the population to go into this and possibly come back with proposals for changes, if you feel the need. The mission will, of course, be carried out as provided for by the majority of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e853	Siv Jensen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e856	First, the concept of unintended effects. It has not been used in the majority opinion; it is referred to as ‘abuse’. The expression unintended effects have emerged in the debate, but that is not what the majority is talking about. In particular, I think that the majority of this case is very liberal in terms of tax relief, but in all other questions one should not be as liberal as tax letters, because in some way one is not in the same ‘green’. Now you talk about culture, and you have to take into account other family relationships. Yeah, I think that's okay. But why should there be a right to tax deductions in Norway for that? People have to do exactly what they want with their money for me, and send them right where they want for me. The question we are going to address is the right to deduct this money in Norway before sending them home. That is what we are discussing. And when the Minister of Finance then says that the only thing that is required is the real burden of living, and that you can document it, yes, I think in and of course it's black on the question of the need to make changes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e863	I also think that the comments of the majority, the debate and, above all, the statements of the Minister of Finance document the need to make changes, because what we are now dealing with is that we should be able to support anyone, just really. So if you have a need in your culture to support more than one spouse, it has to be accepted, but it has to be documented. I have two objections to that. One is the possibility of documentation. In countries with no traditions of bureaucracy and employment — but more with traditions of corruption — such evidence will in practice be impossible — at least very difficult — to control. Documentation may be available, you can buy it anywhere. And the Secretary of State for Aid has recently explained to Stortinget that corruption is one of the biggest problems facing developing countries – we are talking a great deal about developing countries here. So I want to be happy with that documentation check, but then you get into a huge problem, which is not solved until all of this corruption evil is taken at the root. And it may take time – it may take years. I fully agree with those representatives from the Christian People's Party who say that there are great cultural differences here. They're huge. I think that's valuable, and I don't mind that these cultural differences also become part of our own culture – although I see that the leader of the Christian People's Party is taking a great deal of distance from describing Norway as a multicultural society. But obviously our tax system has to be multicultural, even though it's not the country. Here's something that doesn't vote in the Christian People's Party's positions. I am very surprised that the Christian People's Party is actually standing from the pulpit here and saying that all the cultural differences that are must be reflected in the Norwegian tax system. That's for example. so that the very concept of dependant — for spouses or spouses — is culturally dependent, it is not given in all cultures. The concept of marriage also has a very different meaning, and who you see as responsible for, I think is very different from culture to culture. I respect these differences, basically, but I don't see it as a task for the Norwegian tax system to reflect all the different family concepts and concepts facing the world. I am very surprised that the Christian People's Party is so clearly behind the debate that the tax system actually reflects these enormous differences. I think that might be a difficult task for the tax system, to say it carefully, because we've probably just seen the beginning of these cultural differences so far. And as I said, I don't have anything against such differences, but I think it's a pretty heavy burden for the tax system to have to reflect this in the right to deduct in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e876	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3 [[Fotation, see page 1629]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e890	In short, the majority of the Committee has chosen to reject the proposal of the representative of Kvassheim on the non-discrimination of housing of different types compared to Youth Housing Savings. The background for this is, in short, three aspects. One is that the purpose of the BSU rules is to motivate saving for housing, and not for what can be perceived as movable items, such as landboats, caravans or whatever it may be. The second is that it will lead to significant control problems for the equality authorities – now I'm taking the short version. And the third point is that Section 6 of the BSU regulation obliges savings institutions to offer loans with certainty in the purchase. Paragraph 6 of the BSU rules will be difficult in relation to the proposal made by the representative Kvassheim, and the majority cannot see that there is reasonableness in imposing this obligation on the lending institutions. On this basis, the majority does not wish to adopt the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e899	The Progress Party, the Right, the Left and the representative Benn Mikalsen have a common proposal to ask the Government to propose amendments to the tax law, in order to ensure equal treatment of different types of housing throughout the year. The purpose of this is that it should not be up to the Stortinget or politicians to decide at all what kind of dwelling you should have the right to live in, through the tax law. I also do not think it is our duty to decide where the dwelling should be and whether it should be movable or not. It must be such that the form of housing is optional. It must also be such that a form of housing is adapted to the needs and wishes of the individual user. Therefore, the requirement must be that it be used as a full-year dwelling, and everything else should be this hall unsolicited. We agree with the representative, Mr Djupedal, that it is unreasonable to impose obligations on savings institutions to offer mortgages to mobile housing units, and that is taken into account in the proposal by the minority. I bring this up with the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e906	Siv Jensen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e909	The background to the proposal under consideration is that a family wanted to spend the money they had saved through Housing Savings for the Youth Scheme to acquire a houseboat as a full-year dwelling. However, they were refused to take advantage of the tax advantage of the BSU because the County Tax Office considered that a houseboat could not be considered a permanent dwelling. When the family set up their BSU savings scheme, they were told that the money had to be used for housing purposes. That's exactly what they now want to do. Whether or not the dwelling is movable should not be a basis for any refusal to use the BSU. It is the use of the dwelling that should be decisive for the tax advantage, not whether it is on the ground wall, wheel or keel. Human desires and tastes are different. We have different opinions about the good life. This also applies to the choice of dwelling. Some prefer one type of dwelling, others prefer another. The choice of accommodation must be based on the wishes and needs of the individual. There should be no need for housing requirements other than the use of it as a full-year residence for the use of the BSU. It should not be a task for the public to use the tax law to provide guidance for one type of annual residence to be more favourable than others, depending on whether the dwelling is movable or not. The BSU scheme is a very favourable saving scheme for young people to establish themselves. I don't see any serious reason why anyone should be excluded from the scheme because they choose a different form of annual residence than most people do. The Left, together with the rest of the minority, has therefore made proposals to ask the Government to draw up proposals for changes to the tax law so that different types of all-year housing are treated in a non-discriminatory manner under the Youth Housing Saving Scheme. This will make the legislation more flexible in relation to the wishes of the individual. We agree that mobile housing units can sink faster in value than fixed housing units. Therefore, the safety of savings institutions in the purchase of such mobile housing units may be weaker than in the purchase of real estate. Therefore, savings institutions shall not be required to offer residential loans for the purchase of mobile housing units. The Minister of Finance refers in his letter to control problems. I find it hard to see that these are present at mobile housing units to a greater extent. As mentioned above, it is a pre-requisite that the dwelling is used as a full-year dwelling. Nor is there anything to prevent those who want to do so today, using the BSU to buy a fixed dwelling, then to sell it and use it for other purposes. The control problems will not increase if the scheme is used more flexibly. In dealing with matters like this, it strikes me that if one made the same effort to find a practical solution as to finding counter-conceptions, it should be possible to find a solution. In the case we are discussing today, it should be natural to strive for a flexible practice of the BSU scheme, in line with the objective of a simpler Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e928	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1629]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e942	The President will propose that the maximum speaking time for the main speakers from each political group and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes, for the other speakers 5 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e947	This year's new balancing of the state budget, including popular interest, has become a little more remarkable than has been the case in recent years. I think it's positive, because it's also important from the Biggest's side to pay attention to how budgetary management has been over the year. In addition to answering written questions from members of the Committee, the Minister of Finance has also been in the Committee, where he made good the changes that have occurred. The budget is a completely necessary management tool, both in individual areas as a separate project and department, and in macroeconomic governance. It is important that budgeting is realistic, both in the government’s submission, in the budget adopted, and in any changes made during the financial year. I think that has been the case in implementing the 1999 budget. Why do I want to claim that? Yeah, because the changes that are made are defensive and do not compromise on the economic governance of our country. Everyone understands that when extraordinary things happen, one must also take in exceptional measures, such as: had to do so because of the war in Kosovo and its costs. In the case of a large part of the oil-corrected deficit, significant changes in the imputed tax and interest income are due and, in addition, fewer bank charges were sold than expected when the budget was adopted last autumn. Changes were made because the estimates of what might be expected in tax, tax and interest income are different from those initially expected, I do not think that can be used as an argument that financial management has not been good enough. Of the increases in the oil-corrected base of approx. DKK 12.5 billion is a net increase in expenditure of approx. $5.1 billion. Let me immediately add that there is also a lot, and it is far from desirable with such excesses, even though it is extraordinary. I think tight budget management is necessary. The largest items in the increase in expenditure that add up to $5 billion are included. in connection with the tragic situation we have had and in the former Yugoslavia, with the war in Kosovo, with the additional expenditure on the completion of the Rikshospital and the additional costs of response-driven financing in the hospital sector, which is positive, because the most blamed increase in patient care. When it comes to the health sector, I think that the Committee has shown particular attention to health services in the county communities. In the setting, there are comments from both the majority and the minority in the committee. If I am to venture on a summary of what is being said, it must be that a collective committee takes seriously the situation that has arisen. I also expect that the feedback given by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health will provide a better basis for determining the framework conditions that hospitals should have in order to make the best use of resources. In this setting, two briefings are included for Size. The one indebted letter from Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade Lars Sponheim to the Stortinget on 14 December about the hall of the state's axes in Southvaranger ASA. This message follows the attachment attached to the setting. The majority in the committee also have comments on the sale of the axans in Arcus AS, and believe it is within the authority of the government to sell the axes. The second orientation applies to matters of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, where the Committee takes account of the changes made in the Storting in connection with the management of Innst. S. No 66 for 1999-2000. After receiving information from the government council, Marit Arnstad, Stortinget did not approve the proposed increase in cape. 5608 item 81, as suggested in the setting. This has now been taken into account by the Financial Committee in the setting for new balancing, which we are managing today. Trust in the Norwegian economy has been strengthened through 1999, in my view. This is due to more relationships. I want to point to the following point: 1st@item: inlistbox A relatively tight budget.2. The annual growth rate is expected to be significantly lower in 1999 than in 1998, and wage overhanging in 2000 is moderate. 3rd@item: inlistbox The exchange rate is at about the same level as before the euro-currency increased last year, and Norway Bank has seen interest rates down by 2.5 percent units since the turn of the year. 4th@item: inlistbox The average unemployment rate seems to be around the same range from 1998 to 1999. Finally, I would like to point out that, in the context of budgetary management in the future, we need to have a critical search light on the actual underlying growth in the budget. Here we also have an important problem from Stortinget's side, because it's maybe here in the house we're most under pressure to increase the permissions to all good purposes. I mean, if not too long ahead, we have to look at the regulated expenditure items in the budget. With this, I would like to recommend the vote by the Financial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e993	The 1997 budget reform meant that the previous ageing, which had occurred before that time in the autumn, fell to ensure that the entire budget line would be taken care of from the beginning of the autumn budgetary procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament were amended with new provisions to provide for an overall framework decision on the government and social security budget, consisting of both the expenditure framework and the income framework, to be adopted when the financial position is being treated with binding effect. At that time, on the subject of re-saltation, in the position on budgetary reform, the following was mentioned in point 3.2.1:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e1000	The committee considers that it is not appropriate to wind up the new-age arrangements for the current budget in December. Among other things, the wish for the best possible accounting estimates is to take account of the guidelines for the petroleum fund and to take into account the latest coordination of changes in appropriations under different departments to maintain the level of ageing as a practical scheme.» The new age for 1999, which we are now dealing with, shows that oil dependence has increased during the financial year from DKK 5.5 billion to nearly DKK 18 billion. Taking into account changes in estimates, there is no doubt that there is still a significant gap in the year’s budget. As the Committee’s chairman recently stated, the net talk amounts to DKK 5 billion. It is then natural and correct that the Storting asks whether budget management has been good enough in the course of the year. When the government in the new age that is being discussed today also promotes new measures, we have to ask ourselves whether the new age is what the Stortinget thought it should be, namely a budgetary round for the practical coordination of changes in appropriations. My assessment is that what it looks like now is also the recent ageing process, which is becoming a political round in the budget, but without it being seen as a whole. The aim of the budgetary reform was to bring together a majority behind a comprehensive budget. The position of the Financial Committee, as it now stands, in the case of the new era, shows that this central objective can hardly be said to be achieved by the way economic policy is governed by the Government. For the parties that adopted the 1999 budget together with the Government Parties, i.e. the Right Party and the Advance Party, the vote today is strongly critical of the manner in which it has been followed up and does not take full responsibility for the development of the budget during the year. The point of budgetary reform was that a comprehensive majority was to be drawn up, and there is reason to wonder whether, in reality, budgetary reform now seems to impose only stricter requirements on this whole. The government has as its objective the ability to cooperate on different aspects, including economic policy. We've seen examples of that. The last harvest and the harvest before they found support for their budgeting at the Advance Party and the Right, while for the next year there is a budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party. The agreement between the Right, the Advance Party and the centre parties last autumn weakened the budget by about $1 billion. The government carried out the treatment of the revised national budget without agreement with any parties in the Storting, which also led to a sharp increase in expenditure — and unusually strong to be a revised national budget. And when the ejaculation was presented, the increase in expenditure was further increased. As a result, the totality of the scheme implemented will be completely different from that agreed by the majority who adopted the budget for 1999. And I think there's reason to ask whether this goes beyond the assumptions behind the budget reform of the Great Britain. I believe that the position of the Financial Committee gives reason to ask that question. As already mentioned, the Government has presented a number of proposals for measures at the 1999 new age, which should in general have been promoted in the context of the 2000 regular budgetary round. This means that the new phase-out for 1999 will be used for new measures for 2000, which could not really be put in place in the 2000 budget. It is, in my opinion, a way of using the ejaculation that is not in line with what was intended at the time of the reform, and when it was said that the ejaculation should be for practical purposes. So the fundamental question to ask is whether it is developing a practice of budgetary management during the year that can really help undermine what has been the good intentions behind the budgetary reform for the Storting. The majority itself has said that the reform should be evaluated. This will take place in spring 2001, and, following the Workers' Party's assessment, an important topic in the evaluation is precisely how the ageing process is now working. Finally, let me just stress that I then absolutely share the committee leader's view of the importance that the Storting is increasingly following up the budgetary management and the accounting part of the budget, and not just focusing unilaterally on the budgetary procedure for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e1018	First to the representative Solberg, who used a small part of his contribution to criticise the Right and the Progress Party's lack of follow-up to the budget agreement from this autumn. The progress party has been behind the subsidiary agreement all the way, although there were parts of it that we don't necessarily think were as good. The difference between our subsidiary agreement and the Workers' Party's embrace of the Government this time is significant. A significant difference is that the budget adopted in the autumn of 1998 provided the basis for the fall in interest rates and for a completely different governance of the Norwegian economy. However, it was not long after the adoption of the 2000 budget that the Governor made it clear that the increases in fees in the adopted budget were likely to be so large that they could threaten future interest reductions. So I might not think that the Workers' Party should go too high on the track in terms of good financial control and management. Then to the ejaculation. It is, of course, a little special when, during a budget procedure in the autumn, dramatic exercises are being carried out to fine-tune a budgetary balance and, in the most serious way, to cut the budget's small pro-miles. And then you come to the effusion and you can see that during the budget year the oil dependency has increased up to 18 billion kroner! It is not possible, at my discretion, to fine-tune the Norwegian economy all the way down to the per mille level. The government is undermining the government budget as a governance document by first fine-tuning the budget's budget, and then finding with reasonable stoic calm that the budget has been broken down by several billion dollars, and then saying that this has not been specifically controlled by the Government; one could not foreshadow Kosovo. I agree. And then it turns out that you couldn't pre-shoot exceedances in the Rikshospital either. I agree with that. But then it has been used as an argument from the Minister of Finance that there have been significant extra costs associated with the input-driven financing of hospitals. You've been able to tell! Not only because one had to know that there would be a growth because of an increase in the percentage, but this was also duly pointed out, not only by the Progress Party, but also by the Right, in the context of the revised budget, as there was a lot of spectre related to the effort-driven financing scheme because the county municipalities thought they were not getting the settlement they were legally entitled to. So already at that point it was known that it was going to cost more money in connection with the input-based financing. It was also one of the reasons why it was essential for us in our time to have this converted into an estimate, precisely because it would be impossible to predict what the price tag would be at the end. Then there is another strange situation: in the autumn of 1998, the Minister of Finance, when presenting the State budget, placed considerable emphasis on both in this Chamber and in a number of interviews, on the fact that the budget was a very good starting point for the fall in interest rates in Norway. It was repeated and repeated. So you can then ask questions about why the government has operated on such a high estimate of the interest income of the state. Because if the Government initially assumed that the level of interest in Norway would decrease, why did it not adjust the same estimate of the interest income you expected to receive? I asked that question several times to the Minister of Finance last autumn, but I never got an answer to this ‘miss match’ between the nation’s interest rate level and the state’s interest rate revenue. And then it turns out that there has been a bad estimate of interest income to the state – it was too high compared to what became the reality! Then it is tempting to ask yourself the question of whether this was deliberately faulty budgeting. You couldn't find a cure at the time, and you chose to push the problem in front of you because you kind of knew that Stortinget would sort it out when you just got to the ejaculation. In that case, it's not the only moment. Unfortunately, recent ageing is not just about correcting estimation differences or other changing assumptions. There are also a number of new policies. New proposals come all the way through the year, to which the Government in the deepest seriousness expects the Storting to join. That does not seem to me to be in line with the assumptions underlying a new aging, nor is it in line with the assumptions that the Minister of Finance himself believes should be the basis for a new aging. That is why I am surprised that there are nevertheless proposals from the Government, which are new policies, which are completely out of line with the assumptions made in the budget before the fall, which are therefore expected to go straight through. It is in any case that in some areas it would be natural for the Progress Party to vote against, even in areas where we can agree on the grounds, but where we do not think it is proper because it is not a part of a new age. I will include the minority proposals put forward by the Progress Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e1040	Siv Jensen has addressed the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e1043	This occasion should be used – at least I will – as a couple of reflections on how the new budgetary reform in Stortinget has worked. It shall be officially evaluated after a period of time. But let this be a contribution from my side. The situation today is that when the budget is to be adopted in the autumn, binding budgetary frameworks are required and there is an obligation to find majority solutions. This puts Stortinget under a pressure. But at the same time it's also an assurance that it's the whole thing you're dealing with, and not something that's breaking with the whole thing. This has worked so far positively, I think, but of course there is no guarantee of good budgetary management throughout the year. In this setting, the Right Government criticises the poor budget management. We recognise that there are costs that may come as a surprise, but initially these costs are to be covered, so that the increase in expenditure is kept to about the level it was adopted. Back to the budgetary reform: Nevertheless, I would like to call for a little warning, for there are two trends that seem to undermine the intentions of the budgetary reform: that the Stortninget should be placed under strong discipline in the autumn to cover any increase proposals for balance and consensus, while the Government can increase expenditure from 1 January by making new proposals without interference. In other words, we can adopt one budget, while the final result, when the budget is to be prepared as a provisional account, i.e. now in December, can be another budget, not only because the world has changed, but also because the political will to find its proposals has been weakened. This distorts the power relationship between accumulation and government in such a way that if it evolves to become a practice under changing majority solutions, there is reason to consider whether the intentions of the budgetary reform have actually been fulfilled. The second thing I want to call a warning about is the tendency I see to use to a large extent the recent ageing of the current year's budget to fill the 2000 budget. How can this happen? In fact, by filling in items where appropriations are transferable, so that what may appear to be an increase in order to meet a need in December 1999, is actually an increase in the budgetary framework in the already adopted budget for 2000. We in the Committee have previously asked the Minister of Finance about this in terms of specific items and have been informed that, of course, practice is such that if the Government wants to increase the current year's budget, i.e. in 1999, it must be covered in this calendar year, i.e. from today, where the appropriations are likely to be granted, and until 31 December this year. We have asked a question as to whether that is the case. I await with excitement the Minister of Finance's statement, because the question was not answered during the committee's work on the matter just before the suspension was given. One can always discuss the importance of management tools. But I want to say, in fact, that it is as important to keep sound budgetary management throughout the year as to adopt a usefully adapted and tight budget. The government has passed test number. 1st@item: inlistbox The budget decision was good, with an underlying expenditure increase of actually less than 1 pst. It was in line with what was then forecasting the growth of mainland Norway's GDP. So that means that the government won't take a greater part of the total social shock, nor a smaller part, but it'll stick to some unchanged level. It was to live with for the majority. This is not the case when we settle the accounts. Then the underlying expenditure growth is higher than twice what the government itself thought was correct, correct and proportionate in last year's harvest. So it's an increase in the underlying cost growth from 3⁄4 pst. to 2 pst. Now we can say that the economy has gone well anyway. Yes, it does, and it's because of other relationships. But to the extent that the budget at all contributes to affecting the pressure in the economy and to bringing down interest rates, all of which were agreed on too high when the budget was adopted last year, this budget, which has now actually come out of the year, has made a worse contribution to reducing interest rates than if the budget had been kept and implemented in accordance with the original model. I'm adding that this is nothing new. Here the Labour Party should perhaps slow down a little, because looking at the historical statistics taken from the Workers' Party's own correspondence with the Minister of Finance, it actually shows that the strongest deviation between the budget adopted and the accounts is the year Jens Stoltenberg was Minister of Finance. Then it cracked more than it's done in the next few years. It's a bad excuse for the sitting government, but it's perhaps a small reminder for the largest opposition party to go a little quietly in the doors. If we are to raise our eyes and look into the next year, I would say that it is the governance tool, the underlying expenditure growth, which is the most interesting in the long term – and I also agree here with the chairman of the financial committee, Lars Gunnar Lie, who has stated on several occasions – for budgetary balance, one can always achieve by inflating budget lines, revenue lines, tax allocations, tax allocations, etc., and they may appear to be seemingly balanced, while the underlying expenditure growth is saying something about social conditions in the future. And you can always argue that the underlying expenditure increase in a year, but the interesting thing about 2000 is that the budget adopted is actually higher than in the previous two years. To put it like this, now you've taken it all out at the time of adoption. According to the government’s own figures, the underlying real growth in government budget expenditure from 1999 to 2000 is now estimated to be 2.5 pst. You have to go very far back – I don't have the statistics available – to find the corresponding numbers. There are two ways to interpret it: either you've now covered everything that's real. I don't think I can trust that, because I know, among other things. Based on the government's own information, expenditure on holding forces in Kosovo is budgeted for only six months, and there is no evidence that they are redundant after the first half of 2000 – unfortunately. Other conditions also speak in the same direction. I believe that next year we will be able to experience that the budget is cracking at the top of this already very high underlying expenditure growth. To put it that way, if a call is to be made on the basis of experience with the 1999 budget – and this is addressed both as a prayer and a warning to the parties that are now the majority in the adoption of the next year’s budget, the Workers’ Party and the government parties – it should now be over and over again without any indication of interference. For then, the underlying expenditure growth will increase to such an extent that it can be serious, as some economists have pointed out, trends in inflation in Norway are increasing, the distance from Europe is increasing and trends in interest rates are being replaced by stagnation, some even talk about interest rate increases. This is partly managed by the budget, and that possibility must now be used to ensure adequate budgetary management beyond next year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e1066	The new-ageing approach presents proposals for changes to the 1999 government budget, and the various changes are based on additional and minor consumption in relation to the adopted budget, changes to the revenue side estimates and real increases in expenditure that could not be taken into account at the time of adoption of the budget. The setting shows reduced revenues that total approximately DKK 7.6 billion, except revenues from the petroleum industry and loans. Of these, 4.2 billion are reduced interest income and 3.4 billion are net of net other reduced income. Expenditure includes what is proposed in St.prp. No 30, it's increased by a net of $3.6 billion. For additional commitments and expenditure on payroll and social security in the budget budget, about DKK 5.2 billion of the miscellaneous item has been allocated, so that there is now 50 million. kr. In case of reduced revenue of SEK 7.6 billion and increased expenditure of DKK 3.6 billion, the oil-corrected deficit in the budget increases from DKK 5.4 billion to DKK 16.6 billion, according to the proposal. After the staging proposition was made, the government's proposal for a 15-million allowance was made at a later date. kr in connection with the "Sleipner" hatch. Furthermore, the Stortinget has managed different settings, as the leader of the Finance Committee, Advocate-General Lars Gunnar Lie, has done well in his contribution, increasing the cost by 486 million. kr. This represents a total additional consumption of 501 million. kr in relation to the proposition. The newly aged budget for 1999 will thus have an oil-corrected deficit of approximately DKK 17.2 billion, covered by transfers from the State Petroleum Fund. The actual underlying expenditure growth is increased to 2 pst, from 1.5 pst, as a result of the Yellow Book, and from 0.75 pst. in relation to the budget adopted last year. Based on estimates of the 1999 accounts, fiscal convergence is about 0.5 pst. as opposed to the 1999 draft budget of 1 pst. The weight of the increased expenditure is deviating from the need to increase the pledges made to international peace forces in Kosovo and additional consumption associated with response-driven funding of hospitals. The integration of the country into peacekeeping operations in other countries is difficult to plan for. The impact on our country's budget of needs and consumption is not difficult to understand, and in my opinion it has to be accepted. With the tight budget we had for 1999, it is defensive to find a cure for this additional consumption through the State Petroleum Fund. Despite the changes brought about by the recent ageing process, it is right to say that the implementation of economic policy in 1999 has led to a positive development for the Norwegian economy. Financial policy's contribution to a more balanced development and increased confidence in the Norwegian economy have led to the average unemployment rate being around the same range from 1998 to 1999. The annual wage growth appears to be significantly lower in 1999 than in 1998, while the wage overhang in 2000 can facilitate growth overall next year with the growth of our trading partners. The exchange rate is back at the same level as before the euro last year, and Norway Bank's interest rate is down by 2.5 pst. since the end of the year. There is therefore reason to give the Government credit for the trust created in the implementation of fiscal policy, despite the fact that we are putting behind us a year of very many unexpected events for both the expenditure side and the revenue side of the budget. There is also reason to pay tribute to the parties in the Grand Duchy who, in terms of the budget for both 1999 and 2000, have seen the value of looking for a position, in order to have an impact on the final result and thus to have more of their policies seen. On this basis, on behalf of the Centre Party, I would recommend the setting as it stands.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e1089	I noticed that the representative Holte in his contribution gave the Government the credit for the implementation of the financial policy, and that he also boasted of his collaborators here in Stortinget. Now one should probably be careful with polemics just before a Christmas holiday, but at least it's quite obvious that everything that's in the new age shows that it's the oil, and the oil alone, which makes this go up as well as it does, and that the government has absolutely no credit for it. On the contrary, this shows that the Government has not been in control of the Norwegian economy for the last year. There are especially two aspects I want to point to in the setting that lies ahead of us. One is the point under the authority of privatisation, which was also part of the Bondevik government’s cabinet issue to the Stortinget in the context of the revised national budget in 1998. It has been shown that it has not been possible to carry out the unspecified privatisation included there, and it shows with all possible clarity that such issues should not be dealt with in a budgetary settlement. So one chooses to give a power to the Government to raise 500 million. kr in unspecified privatisation, and the Government comes back here and shows how this has been attempted. Clearly, long-term government ownership cannot be managed in this way. This means that if you want, as many here in the Chamber do, to privatize your business, you have to do it by taking projects, companies for companies, and treating them as such with the budgetary consequences of the sale. Those who may have experienced it now are our Swedish friends in a matter we dealt with earlier in the Storting today, where they have budgeted with income from the sale of a merged company by Telenor and Telia. The Swedes now have a significant deficit in their accounts. Fortunately, not the same has happened in Norway, but the 500 million. kr. which is in the budget here, shows that the kind of budgetary management is unwise, nor is it compatible with a long-term, proper ownership, which the government must of course manage. The second relationship that needs to be pointed out in today's position, and that many others have had, is the budget line that appears in the vote. So if we take the oil that's out of most of the macroeconomic calculations, the crack is $23.3 billion, and that's pretty significant. So most people agree that we're going to keep the oil out. Then we have used approx. 13 billion more in oil money than the government and the budgetary parties agreed on last autumn. This is quite a large amount, especially given that last year we were strongly urged that this should not be used more oil crowns, because this would lead to ills in the Norwegian economy. In order to take it a little chronologically, last year the rhetoric in the staging room was hard, considering that this had to be tightened by 9 billion kroner, that we had to spend 4.5 billion dollars and nothing more of the oil money. So it happened through the budget agreement that one used approx. One billion more, and a port of approx. 5.5 billion, and we see the result today. The result is that 18 billion have been used! So the finance minister says that this can be explained by a number of factors, not least by the changes in estimates, that the sale of DnB shares has not been made, we have received input-driven financing, Kosovo etc. All of this has resulted in significantly greater costs. Yes, all that's all right, but if you think about the rhetoric that was last year about how important the zero point, the absolute balance, was in relation to how the development of the Norwegian economy should be, then there are many here who should show a significantly greater degree of humility compared to the great sizes we're talking about here. So last year, the interest rate would go up if we spent more of the oil money than the government recommended. We were going to have an imbalance in inflation, and we were going to have an imbalance in the Norwegian economy. Fortunately, this has not happened, fortunately, interest rates fell by 2.5 percentage points last year, and inflation is still under control. At best, the Norwegian economy can't be said to be in bad shape; it's one of the most solid economies in the world, perhaps the most solid of all. The reasons for that are many, but the reason is not here in the main hall. The main reason is that we have a raw material called oil, which was subsequently priced very high beyond the fall, and which makes the trust in the Norwegian economy great. What has also happened is that the euro interest rate has increased over the same period, so that the difference in interest rates measured between Norwegian and European interest rates has actually decreased, due to both Norwegian interest rates and the rise in euro interest rates. My point has always been that one should show a significantly greater degree of humility in relation to such numbers. Absolutes in the economy are hard to be completely clear, and that means that the same exercises that we did last year's harvest, and that we've seen partly in the harvest, we'll certainly see again in the future. At the same time, when the accounts are to be prepared, one will see that the deviation will be large. It surprises me that those who are constantly concerned with the dynamics of the economy, those who are concerned with elasticity, and with the fact that the economy is not about absolute sizes, they are as clear and with the greatest gravity going out and saying that just like that and that it does, and then it doesn't get that way. This may have been adult training for many, and it should at least be in the context of future budgetary proceedings. SV recommended last year that we could use approx. 4.5 billion more oil crowns than the majority recommended. So we wanted to use approximately from our alternative budget. DKr 11.5 billion. of the oil money. Now the result has been that we use approx. 18 billion, which after all the definitions should be very irresponsible. SV had never felt so irresponsible. In addition, we have wanted the costs to be covered by the State budget, and that one should not operate the type – I was saying – of budgeting over the year that one here has been busy, not least Per-Kristian Foss. We believe that the budget should be a governance tool, and that means that the priorities of the State budget should also follow for the rest of the year. That's what we've now seen with the minority government we have, that no matter how you want to camouflage the crack, it's because you haven't made priorities throughout the year. We wanted a clearer commitment to education in last year's state budget. The result here is that if the majority of the population wanted it, it would have been right to invest more in education in last year's government budget, as it would have been right this year, because the economy in Norway is more than solid enough to withstand the kind of cost, which is basically not a cost, but an investment in future income. It would have been delicious if we could have released absolutes in future budget debates and that we could also remember the debate we have had today so that it will have consequences for the future. No one here wants the Norwegian economy to be at risk, no one wants interest to rise, no one wants inflation to rise. But that means that there is no one – probably not in any parties here, and at least not in the Ministry of Finance – who has the absolute knowledge of how this should be. And that means that when e.g. SV believes that investing in knowledge is important, it can no longer meet with arguments such as that it is irresponsible, because it is simply not the way the economy works. This, in turn, means that those who need to define what is responsible and irresponsible in economic policy today have received a small adult education. It is positive that it has gone as it has in the Norwegian economy throughout the year. This may be due to — at least the additional consumption of the State budget has been a contributing factor — the fact that unemployment has not increased. Last winter, most forecasters agreed that unemployment would rise. The Ministry of Finance disagreed with the forecasters, and they may have to pay for that. Or maybe that's because they already knew at the time that they were going to spend more money over the year, to keep the activity up. At least there has been activity, which has caused unemployment to not have increased, and that is, of course, the most positive thing. That it has been possible to reduce interest rates and that unemployment has not increased at the same time is positive. That these aren't necessarily contradictory sizes, you can also learn from them. Then there are many who have been involved in the budgetary reform. It also needs to be evaluated — not by this magnification, but by the next majority. If I don't remember completely wrong at the speed, this ageing period was a trial period. The reform of the budget has been largely positive, and that means that SV also wants the reform of the budget to continue. But what to learn from is how to manage the budget over the year. This is something we have to get back to. But what's obvious is that the budget we now have behind us has not been managed. It has almost been guided by the approach of invasion, except perhaps for Kosovo, which cannot be called an invasion. We have felt it natural and right to link some comments to this budget because there has been such a significant deviation from what was adopted. And what could be the lesson, I have now tried to draw up the view from SV's point of view. We have thought and still believe that tight budget management is right, and we also believe it is right to have more room in the Norwegian economy to invest in the public sector. That is what is the second long-term impact of the budget, namely that the public sector's share of the total economy is falling, while the private share is rising. Then we come in such paradoxical situations as that we have municipal poverty, but state and private wealth, and there's a development SV wants to turn around.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e1125	When it comes to the matter itself, I join the representatives of Lie and Holte here. The reason why I am now taking the floor is that, in connection with the adult training that the representative of Djupedal has now done, I would like to be allowed to come up with another version of the experience that he clearly draws from this. He says briefly that if we had spent as much money this year as SV had put up in their budget, the result would not have been much worse than it has been. Then he thinks about interest, unemployment, employment, etc. I think that's a fundamental misassessment. And since Djupedal speaks of the Government as showing more 'humility', I allow myself to say that there is one factor in this that the representative Djupedal ignores completely, and that is the psychology that lies in, for example. interest rate developments. It is quite obvious that if the Government had submitted e.g. 12,1 or 5,1 billion dollars more in consumption than what it's done, we would have had a significantly different development than what we've been given. The reason why we don't get it is because it's not about economic reality in this context; it's just what the opposition calls the budget, that's what the media develops it to, and that's what the analysts say on the basis of the indicators. So I would be very careful to draw the conclusion that Djupedal's representative is making. But I expect him to be alone in drawing that conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e1137	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e1140	The representative Johansen invited him to an answer, and he'll get it. The Norwegian economy is so bottom-solid that it has been possible to develop over the year despite the fact that the budget has exploded as much as it has. It is also true that psychological signals are transmitted through the treatment of the Storting. But the market is not so simple that you just take psychology. You go back and see if there's a real political foundation in this. And the real political foundation of the Norwegian economy is bottom-solid. All international rating agencies consider the Norwegian economy to be solid despite the fact that there is an increase in oil money consumption of about 1 %. DKr 13 billion. The reason is that we have essentially based our economy on one commodity, a commodity that is now very high priced. It's almost 'all hour high'. That means that there's money in the treasury. The Norwegian economy is transparent. If not all parts of the Norwegian economy are equally well-solid, the totality is bottom-solid. This means that when SV advises to spend some more oil money – last year NOK 4.5 billion, this year approx. SEK 1.7 billion – it is very sound. It is very good to use money to invest in our children and to invest in building skills. It surprises me that representatives of the Government have such a narrow view of economics, such a narrow view of absolutes. The representative Johansen allows himself to say that he assumes SV is the only party in this room that believes this is proper. This cannot be understood in any other way than that the representative Johansen believes that there are absolutes – this is the limit, there is the irresponsible, and where the responsible. But the matter we are dealing with now shows with all manner of clarity that this is not the case. And it also surprises me that a man who has such a long time in Norwegian business can allow himself to be so easily profited from such important sizes, because this is something you learn from the very most elementary economic course, namely that the economy of society and the business economy are two completely different sizes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e1151	Does Terje Johansen want to answer?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e1154	No thanks!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e1159	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e1162	The main objective of the 1999 economic policy has been to achieve a balanced development in the Norwegian economy, where price and cost growth is rapidly falling at the level of our trading partners. If not, the possibility of maintaining a high level of employment is reduced and a significant increase in unemployment is avoided. Cooling the economy has been necessary to provide a basis for moderate income settlement and lower interest rates. The implementation of economic policy this year has contributed to a positive development in the Norwegian economy. The annual wage growth is expected to be significantly lower in 1999 than in 1998. At the same time, the pay gap is moderate in 2000 so that the conditions allow for the next year's wage growth to be in line with the development of our trading partners. The exchange rate is back at about the same level as before the euro last year. Norway’s Bank’s administered interest rates have fallen by 21⁄2 percentage points since the turn of the year. Average AKU unemployment seems to be around unchanged from 1998 to 1999, at 3.2 pst. However, there is a danger that price and cost growth in the years ahead may become too high. Among other things, there is still a shortage of labour in large parts of the labour market. This makes great demands on the social partners, who have to carry out moderate income settlements. The State budget is a completely necessary management tool, both in individual areas and in macroeconomic governance, although estimates, assumptions and decisions may be changed in the course of the process. It is important that budgeting is based on realistic assumptions based on the information available, both in the original draft budget, in the adopted budget and on any changes adopted during the financial year. This has been used to implement the 1999 budget. This has been focused on the deficit in the year's budget for the last few weeks. There have been a number of statements in the media about a budget deficit of DKr 13 billion. These statements do not give a proper picture of the reasons for the increase in the oil-corrected budget deficit. So let me briefly review the facts. The oil-corrected government budget deficit for 1999 has increased from DKK 5.5 billion in the 1999 Yellow Book to DKK 18 billion in the government’s recent budget proposals. However, this increase of DKK 12.5 billion is due to 7.4 billion changes in the estimate and suspension of the sale of bank shares. The 7.4 billion DKK in changes in estimates etc. is distributed as follows: reduced tax revenue DKK 2.3 billion reduced net interest income DKK 1.7 billion increased use of transferred appropriations from 1998 onwards. NOK 0.4 billion for the sale of bank shares is deferred to NOK 3 billion in 2000. After five years of fiscal tightening, it was difficult to find room for spending increases to key areas through expenditure reductions alone. The government therefore found it necessary in the 1999 draft budget to propose a real increase in taxes and levies of approximately DKK 4 billion to achieve the desired rigour. However, the increase in taxes and charges was not accepted by Stortinget. In the agreement, some of the proposed tax increases were replaced by other income increases and some with reduced expenditure. However, the tightness of the budget line was reduced by about DKK 1 billion. Following an overall assessment of the situation in the Norwegian economy, and in view of the problems associated with the implementation of major changes and significant expenditure reductions in the middle of a financial year, the Government considered it appropriate in the revised 1999 national budget to reduce the budgetary balance, corresponding to the additional expenditure related to the Kosovo crisis. Furthermore, the budgetary procedure in the Grand Duchy of Great Britain caused a further deterioration in the budget balance of DKK 0.5 billion in addition to the DKK 1.7 billion that followed from the Government's own proposals in St. Prp. No 67 for 1998-99, which was promoted in the context of the 1999 revised national budget. In the second half of the year, it has been necessary to make proposals for additional appropriations which together exceed the remaining reserve for random expenditure. The amount of part of these additional appropriations has only finally become available in the autumn. This includes the necessary appropriations for the Kosovo crisis, the response-driven financing of hospitals and the increased expenditure related to the transfer of the Rikshospitale. Proposals promoted by the Government have combined resulted in a net budget increase of NOK 3.7 billion. In addition, the deterioration in the budget procedure in Stortinget last autumn and in the spring will amount to a total of DKK 1.5 billion. From the Yellow Book to the Government’s new age proposal, the overall decisions on changes in appropriations that do not result from changes in estimates and technical conditions, thus amounting to DKK 5.2 billion. In addition, the treatment of new ageing in Stortinget and more recent data in some areas have led to further changes in appropriations, reducing the budget for 1999 by about 500 million. kr. When the year-on-year changes in appropriations have become so large, they are mainly due to three factors. Firstly, it has significant additional expenditure related to the Kosovo crisis and the Defence International Operations in the former Yugoslavia. Overall, the additional appropriations for these purposes amount to DKK 3.5 billion. The peacekeeping operations in Bosnia and Macedonia are then included. Secondly, the completion of – and delay in moving to – the new Rikshospital has resulted in a need of about DKK 1 billion in additional appropriations, and thirdly, an increase in hospital activity has also resulted in an increase in expenditure of about DKK 1 billion. The reserve to cover additional appropriations over the year provided for when the budget was adopted in the autumn of 1998, the so-called ‘mixed item’, was scarce but sufficient to cover the remuneration, retirement and other income statements and most of the additional appropriations needed. The exception is the three major items mentioned above, which it was very difficult to predict in the autumn of 1998. An important prerequisite for the budgetary procedure in the Grand Duchy should be to define the priorities of the budget in the budgetary procedure during the autumn. It is therefore appropriate to limit the amount of additional appropriations during the financial year to the extent possible, in order to maximise the realisation of priorities in the budgetary procedure for the harvest. This suggests that the reserve for additional appropriations should not be too large either. As I have explained, in 1999 we received exceptionally high unforeseeable additional appropriations in some areas. Overall, these exceed the reserve for additional appropriations that we would normally need in a financial year. The oil-adjusted budget deficit is one of several budgetary indicators. In recent years, budgetary documents have also stressed the importance of changes in the oil, interest rate and activity-adjusted budget deficit and the real underlying growth of government expenditure as important targets for fiscal policy. In the 1999 Yellow Book, the changes in the oil, interest rate and activity adjusted deficit — or fiscal tightening — were estimated to be up to 1 pst. of the GDP of mainland Norway. The actual underlying expenditure growth was estimated to be 1 pst. Now, at the time of thawing, fiscal tightening is estimated to be reduced to about 0.5 pst. of the GDP of mainland Norway, while the actual underlying expenditure growth is estimated to be 2 pst. Compared with the initial State budget proposals, there was a similar slump in the expenditure of the State budget in 1998, while there was an even greater slump in 1997. However, developments in these years are not an argument for allowing higher expenditure growth than budgeted in next year’s government budget, rather on the contrary. The changes in the 1999 government budget, which have occurred since the 2000 government and national budgets were submitted, also affect changes from 1999 to 2000, and thus fiscal indicators. In isolation, the changes in 1999 contribute to the tightening of fiscal policy next year by about 1⁄4 percentage point more than estimated in the national budget, measured by changes in the oil, interest rate and activity-adjusted budget deficit. In isolation, the actual underlying expenditure growth is estimated to be about 1⁄2 percentage points lower. However, these changes in the indicators for 2000, due to increased expenditure in the current year, do not provide a basis for reviewing the budget approach for next year. The main objective of fiscal policy has been and is to achieve a balanced development in the Norwegian economy. Despite the budgetary gap, as I have explained, the implementation of the 1999 state budget has contributed to a positive development for our economy that we should all have good reason to rejoice over. Last year there were many gloomy predictions about so-called crash landings for the Norwegian economy and about a strong increase in unemployment. That's not how it went -- the pessimists were wrong. It is therefore reassuring to note that we are entering a new millennium with a strong Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e1215	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e1218	I assume that the Minister of Finance has noticed that in today's debate a large majority in the Grand Duchy has placed great emphasis on the importance of budgetary management, the importance of the Stortinge closer to budgetary management, and that the Stortinge also cares more about the accounting part of the budget than perhaps has been the usual. When we had in place a budget agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre parties earlier this fall after negotiations, many people noticed that the Minister of Finance celebrated it with soft cake and stated that it was a big day for a finance minister when the budget agreement was in place without using an extra oil crown. In the light of the reasons that Minister of Finance Restad used to eat soft cake in the autumn, I believe that there was hardly any special party atmosphere in the Ministry of Finance when the new aging for 1999 was ready, because then it went significantly over the oil crowns, to put it that way. Earlier in the debate, I have placed considerable emphasis on the fact that the way in which budgetary management and, not least, the phasing-out now operate can help undermine the budgetary reform adopted by the Stortinget and for which, in fact, Minister of Finance Restad was also a father. I have also stressed that the Government is using the new age as an opportunity to promote new measures. There's a lot of examples, and I could mention two: that's $12 million. kr for a special road use on the Fräna, and there are grants to airports of 132 million. kr. Two examples — of which there are several — of entirely concrete new measures to which the ageing process is applied. Let me say that it may well be good, important, and right purposes, but it's quite obvious that there are issues that, at my discretion, belong to an ordinary budgetary procedure, in which they could be assessed as part of the whole. In the Ministry of Finance, there is clearly also a different coverage rule than in relation to new ageing. My question is: does the Minister of Finance agree that these are examples of issues that should be part of the regular budgetary round in the autumn?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e1235	As I said on my visit to the Financial Committee a few days ago, I think it is positive that the Financial Committee, and therefore the Storting, is now more concerned with the phasing-out, i.e. the implementation of the budget. My experience after many years in the Financial Committee is that there has been too little attention to it, especially in relation to the amount of work you put into creating a budget. And I think that – and it's honest – it's positive that the Storting is busy. Of course, Stortinget also has its responsibility. The government takes the greatest responsibility for the budget statement we have seen this year, which is otherwise not a special one. It's like, among other things, Per-Cristian Foss pointed out, examples of what has been worse in a relatively short time back. At the latest in 1997, the slides were significantly larger than both what we saw in 1999 and what we saw in 1998. But it's right to remind you of a few facts. This should not be taken as any criticism, or as if I am committing myself to the attacks that I now feel are directed at the Minister of Finance and the Government, but it is actually the Storting that is granting authority. If the Storting believes that the Government is doing something that is irresponsible, then the Storting must be able to do something else. It is also true that, in the case of the 1999 budget, increases have been proposed by the Government, and I think that is a good reason for this, among other things. due to the Kosovo crisis and major exceedances in the Rikshospitalet, etc., but the Stortinget has also contributed somewhat. Already last autumn, there was a deterioration of NOK 1 billion, and in the spring, by revision, there was a further DKK 1⁄2 billion in deterioration. And now when we're talking about new aging, if it's used to add new funds that were actually going to be next year, I've registered that the Stortinget has contributed an additional SEK 1⁄2 billion in the autumn, among other things. 250 million. NOK 100 million for the hospital sector. kr to the Defence. I think that is why we get to share that responsibility. But I agree that it is important to keep an eye on the implementation of the budget as far as possible in line with what has been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e1244	No, I do not share that responsibility, and the reason for that is that there is a connection here – I thought at least that was the case. It has traditionally been so in our constitution that the Government must have a foundation in the Storting, and when this foundation in the Storting does not itself contribute to the discovery of proposals that they themselves produce, then this is not the opposition's responsibility. At least the right does not take part of that responsibility. Once we have contributed to additions, we have also contributed to cutting. But it has never, almost, been the majority of these cuts in a similar way, because the government parties strongly inspired by the finance minister had the argument that now we've cut and tightened up for so many years that now it's no longer going on. And when the Minister of Finance gives a reminder to the Storting that there is no more cut to find, you might think you were in a reverse world. It's never been like that before. It is not the role of the Minister of Finance to shape the Stortingen not to find cut. It goes wrong when the Minister of Finance doesn't know what his role is. However, I agree with the Minister of Finance when he says next year – and I hope it is a promise of a fine and improvement, fines cannot unfortunately be imposed, but improvement can be achieved by itself – that we must not take the exceedances in 1997, 1998 and 1999 as a signal that higher expenditure growth will be justified in 2000, and then he added: ‘Straighter on the contrary’. But there is already higher expenditure growth in the 2000 budget. I guess it's on two and a half pst. at the time of adoption, and so high it has hardly been at the end of the year ever before — so this is really a promise of improvement. I agree with those who have said that there is a tendency to use the effusion to fill in the budget. That is why I will now repeat the question, which I have not received a reply to before, from the Minister of Finance: will the appropriations be cut short. 191, 70, 32,6 million. 1999 kr will be used in 1999?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e1256	I am very sorry if what I said was perceived as a reminder to the Stortinget. It wasn't supposed to shape the Storting, it's not my job. But I pointed to the fact that the Storting is granting authority, and that the Government can't actually use a crown without the Storting blessing it. That was the simple message. And then it was the fact that even though the government has proposed significant expenditure increases – and I think it was for good reason – there have been further expenditure increases in the Stortinget by working together here. I'm not saying the government doesn't take its share of responsibility for it, but I pointed to it as a fact. So the right will not share the responsibility for getting a crack; the Per-Kristian Foss believes that the Right has always assigned a cut. But it is now a fact that we negotiated a budget last fall, and then we did not fully replace the loss of income of NOK 4 billion with cut or other revenues, and it supported the Right and Advance Party, a deterioration of NOK 1 billion. In fact, it was subsidiary, but I assume that they will nevertheless accept the budget they supported last autumn. Then I can give no further answer now than what I gave in the Financial Committee regarding this post on the Cape. 191. As I said then – and I still believe so – I foresee that when the specialist councils propose additions so late this year, it is because there will be a need for money for the rest of the year, because it is within the requirement of realistic budgeting. And I have no reason to doubt that the Minister for Foreign Affairs believes that there is a need for this money since it has been proposed such an expenditure application. Then, of course, the post office is transferable, and so the money can be used next year if it turns out not to be needed for them this year, but I expect, as I said, that when this is proposed, it is because you believe it is a need this year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e1266	I'm not going to repeat what I used my main post to say. What it might be interesting to hear the Minister of Finance's assessment is why things have gone as well as they have actually done. If you were to take seriously what happened here last autumn, the development of the Norwegian economy would not have gone that way. The Busjet settlement parties last year and also the Workers' Party were very careful to stress that it had to be covered in crowns. That's not exactly what happened now. The Minister of Finance himself confirmed that only through the budgetary agreement last autumn was 1 billion more than recommended by the Ministry, and we now see that over the year several billion have been spent than the budget agreement has taken. And then the question is, why has interest rate fallen 2 1⁄2 percentage points anyway? Why has inflation been in the chess industry for the whole year? Why, after all, has unemployment not increased, which we might assume when choosing the kind of dramatic cuts in public consumption? And then there must be some answers. Either the theory is wrong, and I don't really think so – I think there's a certain connection here, even if it's not so absolute – or it's because of the other relationship, such as that. the raw material price of oil. There is every reason to believe that this is the single reason why Norwegian economy, after all, is considered as solid as it actually is. And if that's true, that means that last year's budget has made us even more oil dependent than ever, and that would be contrary to all the signals that the Ministry of Finance and the Government made, and otherwise, wants Norway to become a less oil-dependent nation, not a more oil-dependent nation. Or perhaps there are alternative answers that the Minister of Finance has on his paper? At least it would be interesting for Stortinget to hear what the Ministry of Finance's assessment is of this – when everything should have gone to hell, but fortunately not gone like that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e1273	Let me give Øystein Djupedal just so far on the way that it's not an exact science you're facing, and that's why I think I agree that it's not that right here that's what's the only blessing, and that everything else is going to be a disaster. I have also never said that for my part, if others have done so, I have not registered. But it's far from deciding that this is what you think is right, and to what I have a sense of is SV's thinking, that you pull it, you pull it, it's not that dangerous with billions in addition, it's probably going well. I registered that Øystein Djupedal in his post thought that it would have been as good if you had, for example. had spent SEK 4.5 billion more for, among others. school purposes, as proposed by SV last year. This would not have meant that the Kosovo crisis did not come with its needs, it would not have meant that the Rikshospital would have been cheaper, it would have been necessary to use the extra billion, etc., so in that case these DKK 4.5 billion would have come to the top of the crack we have already seen, and as Mr Djupedal has criticised relatively strongly. So I don't think that's the way to go. I noticed that Djupedal – if he is correctly represented in the papers – after my visit to the Finance Committee, it was a fact that if we had not had this crack, the interest rates would have been lower than we see today. Of that one might then have to conclude that since Djupedal and SV thought that they would have used so much more – completely voluntary and willing – in the current year’s budget, SV was not so concerned that interest rates would go down, not even as far down as we have now received them – 2.5 percentage points this year. It is possible that there is a correct policy on the part of the SV, but for the government, it was important to contribute to a budget that could bring interest rates down from too high a level, as we had last year's harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e1284	I would just like to say first that I was not able to discover that the Minister of Finance actually answered what was my specific question in the previous line, namely why the concrete types of new measures promoted in the new era were not part of the overall budgetary procedure, where the aim was also to have a total and total impact. But what led me to ask for a reply was actually something else that the Minister of Finance said, namely, that he made aware that the Storting is granting authority. Yes, of course, we are very conscious of that. Then I left with the wonder: Is it so that the Minister of Finance has not taken the point of why the ejaculation has been given as much attention as it is in the harvest? It is precisely because we know that the Storting is granting authority, but that the Storting when we get cases presented as we do in the downsliding, does not have the opportunity to deal with a number of things in an overall budgetary context, as the really budgetary system in the Stortinget has stated. The overall assessment of how money is to be used does not give the Storting the opportunity when a number of new measures enter into the new era of ageing. What may be happening, in my opinion, is that the old ageing that was removed in the budgetary reform has moved to the following year, but then with the effect that this ageing is entirely controlled by the Government. One comes to Stortinget with the matters when the money is actually used, and then it says itself what the granting authority has to do. Then the granting authority has largely to grant the money. And that of course applies to most of the things that are involved in the effusion. I find reason to stress this, as I am actually in doubt if the finance minister had taken this point, which I believe is the main reason at least from my point of view for why we celebrate this new age as much attention as we actually do.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e1300	As I tried to say in my first answer, I probably understood the point. Not only that, but I think it is very positive that the Financial Committee now has four implementations of the budget far more attention than we have been used to, and I think the Stortinget will continue to do so. But I cannot agree that a number of new proposals have been made. There are a few examples of things in which it can be discussed whether it is appropriate to add it to the new era, whether it should have taken place in the 2000 budget or later years, or whether it might have been possible to predict it already last autumn, so that it could have been included in the budget originally. The last was at least not the case for the matters that have now been raised here. But I'm still a little surprised, when you're so deeply concerned about this, and rightly so, and I don't understand that the Workers' Party has been the brake block here, because they're making sure there's going to be a further deterioration in the new age beyond what the Government has actually proposed, at 501 million. kr, and a cost increase in the hospital sector of 254 million. NOK 107 million in the case of defence. kr. It seems to me that it could perhaps be presented as something that really belonged to the 2000 budget, and that it could have been done because it seemed that the 2000 budget that has now been adopted was too bad. I don't know what assessments have been taken into account here in the Storting, I just see as a fact that the Storting then contributes to an additional expenditure increase and a further deterioration in the budget beyond what the Government has committed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e1309	I expect the Minister of Finance to worry that there is a large number of people criticising the Government for using the downsizing in a way that is really a political rematch and replenishment on the next year's budget. I want what was said by the previous speaker, the representative of the Workers' Party, Hill-Marta Solberg, to make it clear that this is not a minority, but a majority. Then the finance minister answers by asking what Stortinget means. You'd think there were close shots between the government and the big parties. I can inform the Minister of Finance that the proposal to increase hospital appropriations is the result of proposals from the government parties. They justify this with previous under-budgeting and that the Ministry of Finance’s assessments are not consistent with the needs of hospitals. As far as the defence is concerned, I can inform you that this is the result of the government's failure to comply with the budget agreement last year to compensate for the 300 million. kr taken by the Investment Item of the Defence. And when the Government does not hold budgetary agreements, the Storting must ensure that the budget agreements are kept. I am sorry that we have to do this when the budget is aged, but it is a result that the government does not follow its own agreements and does not keep in touch with its own parties, which means that they also feel compelled to actually propose additions. I think it is critical, limited to very critical, when the Minister of Finance cannot even put himself better into a budgetary document he himself promotes, than to refer to his reliance on the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Specific questions were raised during the Committee's examination on the undercutting of the funds. 191 entry 70 was to be used for, and it appears as a question in the setting on page 11. And I would like to point out that this proposition is not promoted by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but by the Minister of Finance, and then I want the Minister of Finance to answer and not refer to a representative of the Government who is not present in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e1318	Yes, I realize, of course, that the criticisms directed at the treatment we have done are not from a minority but from a majority. It is not difficult to sum up and know that it is a majority – the Right and the Labour Party alone constitute a majority of the Stortinget. So I'm sorry I haven't gotten involved in such details as these 32.6 million. kr on one of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ budget chapters. It's true that most departments have promoted their own supplementary propositions, and they've been treated here in an ordinary way, so what comes into my proposition, is what it's not considered reasonable to present in a separate proposition. I have no other explanation for that than what is in St.prp. No 30, and if that is not enough, I promise to ensure that the Foreign Minister's explanation of what this money was to be spent for in the harvest is taken to heart.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e1325	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e1328	I asked for the word to make note that there are some typographical errors in Table 5 on page 29 of the option. First, column 1 shall read 'Assured budget 1999' and not '1991' as set out in the statement. In column 3, there are no changes resulting from decisions taken by the Storting in connection with the budget management of the Ministry of Oil and Energy of minus 125 million. kr, come with me. That is to say, in line ‘Total revenue of the State budget’ in column 3 shall read ‘-125’ and in line ‘A.2 Income other than that of the petroleum industry’ shall also read ‘-125’. Under ‘B Total expenditure of the State budget’, there shall be ‘376 million. kr. The table must be corrected accordingly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e1341	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1629]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e1355	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1637]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e1369	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1637]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e1383	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1637]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e1397	No one has asked for the floor. [[Votation. See page 1637]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e1411	In contrast to the other lots, the Progress Party will not be in favour of a separate complaint subject in connection with the establishment of a lottery supervision. We want some experiences to be gained first from a lottery inspection. Appeals against decisions taken by the police should continue to be subject to appeal to the Lottery Authority and decisions taken by the Lottery Authority may be appealed to the Ministry of Justice. These are schemes that can work very well without creating a separate complaint subject. A note shall be financed by fees paid by the players in the private lotteries. Very few of the hearing bodies have expressed their views on the need for an appeal subject, instead the hearing bodies wish that the Lottery Authority should be organised with its own board. This is in line with the view of the Party of Presidents. A board of directors should be a forum independent of the supervision itself, composed of a majority of persons recruited from outside. With this, I recommend the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e1418	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1637]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e1433	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1637]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e1441	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e2465	During the debate on this matter, two proposals have been put forward. It's: proposal No I, by Mr Jensen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Kjellaug Nakkim on behalf of the Right and the representative of Bastisen It is first put to the vote on the proposal from the Party of Advancement and then on the proposal from the Right and the representative of Steinar Bastesen. The proposal from the Progress Party reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the legislation and practices of Section 76 of the Tax Act so that: (a) the system of special deductions for dependants is applied equally to all taxable persons with foreign dependants; (b) the right to deduct is limited to the care of parents and children; (c) the maximum deduction is limited in cases where the cost of living of the dependant's country of residence is significantly lower than that of Norway; and (c) the maximum deduction is limited in cases where the cost of living of the dependant's country of residence is significantly lower than that of Norway; The proposal from the Right and the representative of Steinar Bastesen reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the legislation and practices relating to Section 76 of the Tax Act’s Special Deduction for Care, so that the right of deduction for residents of the rest of the world is limited to the custody of the parents and children of the taxpayers, and that there is a stronger requirement for proof that the care of residents of the rest of the world actually takes place.’ For this proposal, the Progress Party has notified subsidized aid.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e2529	During the debate, Siv Jensen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Left and the representative Benn Mikalsen. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e2550	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, from Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party This is the first time that we are voting on the proposal by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of The proposal reads as follows: «Chap.PostObjectivesCroner154Information work, organisational life and interpersonal cooperation72Support for research and building skills in developing countries, set up, can be transferred, reduced by 13 800 000from DKK 185 300000 to DKK 171 500 000165Bilateral assistance administered by international organisations [[(see section 4.4). cap. 2800)]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e2725	The motion is put to the vote on the proposal from the Group of the European Progressive Democrats and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and The proposal reads as follows: ‘Chap.Post PurposeCrones334Film and media applications [[(see section 4.4). cap. 3334)]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e4917	There is a vote on the proposal from the Left and the representative Benn Mikalsen submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 16 December 1999. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit to the Storting an evaluation of the system for recording recreational and small boats after the 2000 boat season, so that the Stortinget can evaluate the scheme, no later than the spring session 2001 ’ The President here draws attention to the fact that the Left is the proposer, and that the Christian People's Party and the Central Party have announced that they will vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e4935	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 16 December 1999: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit to the Stortinget an evaluation of the system for recording recreational and small boats after the 2001 boat season, so that the Stortinget can evaluate the scheme, at the latest in spring 2002’.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e4949	There is a vote on the proposal by the representative Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Right, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 16 December 1999: ‘The Government is asking for various alternative mechanisms to strengthen the legal position of the owner in the preservation of cultural memories, including the introduction of a separate replacement paragraph in the Cultural Memory Act, and the issue of whether the State should fully cover the costs of specific scrutiny for the implementation of measures, as set out in the State. Article 10 of the Code of Cultural Memory. The aim must be to ensure a better balance between the obligations imposed by the country and the rights of the owner of a cultural memory. The government is asked to return to the Storting in an appropriate form during the year 2000 »
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e4965	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 16 December 1999: ‘The Government is asking for concrete proposals for improved support schemes and other incentives to ensure protection, restoration, refurbishment and other maintenance under the Culture Memory Act in the context of the 2001 State Budget’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e4979	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr L. Stang, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 16 December 1999: ‘The Authority supports the establishment of a lottery monitoring body and asks the Government to take the necessary measures with a view to the establishment of a lottery monitoring body, as well as to propose amendments to the Lottery Act, in line with the Innst observations. O. No 33 [[1999 - 2000]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e4996	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 16 December 1999: ‘The Government supports the establishment of a lottery control and asks the Government to take the necessary measures to set up a lottery control and a lottery leader in line with the Ot.prp proposal. No 84 [[1999 - 2000]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-21.ana.ud678e5013	There is no record. As this is the last big meeting in 1999, the President will be given the opportunity to thank everyone for the efforts made in this autumn and this year, and wish all the representatives, the members of the Government, the employees of the Stortinge, the press department and all the others who have their work related to the operation of the Stortinge, a really good Christmas and a peaceful and good new year. The first meeting in Stortinget in 2000 is known on 11 January. The President hopes that the representatives will then meet happily, openly and with new forces, ready for new cooperation and new gloom. - Really good Christmas.
