ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e26	It is satisfactory to note that the Government is receiving solid support for its proposals for a national strategy for the assessment and quality development of primary and secondary education. Not surprisingly, the Workers' Party and SV support the centre of this matter of principle. The party welcomes the further development of the single school on the basis of the principle of equivalent training provision and the school-based assessment as a foundation for school development. We think it makes sense to build on the valuable work that has already been done in both primary and secondary education. However, greater transparency in school is important so that users and the local community are better informed and can make a positive contribution to school development. Furthermore, better communication is needed between the different levels of education and better coordination, so that the inputs are used in the best possible way. School developments must take place from the inside to the bottom, i.e. from the learning arenas themselves. Motivated teachers with a change mind are the most important factors in the school’s ability to develop and meet the new challenges offensively. The importance of the teacher for learning and school development is also highlighted in the communication. First anamunensis Alfred Oftedal Telhaug strongly supports this in a fresh chronicle in the newspaper. It is important to provide teachers with working conditions that stimulate teaching courses that, based on their professional attitude, provide the best learning. The reforms have been demanding for teachers. We have to admit that. Target-driven curricula and project-oriented education have been a difficult spin-off, which requires different pedagogical thinking. It requires a lot of planning, multidisciplinary cooperation and student participation, which is time-consuming. Target management requires systematic re-reporting, which many consider unnecessary red tape. A thoughtful visit to a classroom can give this picture: a college of teachers aged 25 to 60. The elderly are in the majority. The young, newly educated teachers are enthusiastic on behalf of the new curricula. Now they're going to put into life what they learned. They are followed by more people aged 30 to 40, and there is intense discussion about how training should be done at school. Rector is positive and supportive. In the same college, there are many older teachers who have made a faithful effort for many years, but they have had little chance of continuing training in project work and ICT. That they feel a little insecure, is natural. It has to be added that there are several teachers of the same age who insist on this new and think it is exciting. But it's another group. It's those who are opponents of all the new stuff and show it clearly. In addition, it must be mentioned that there is an active parental selection at school. In this classic example, the schoolleader’s competence and wisdom are crucial for the development of this school as a learning organisation. I'm convinced that an external inspectorate is not what would help this college develop a good learning environment. On the contrary, I believe that such control would seem more deterrent than corrective and stimulating. On the other hand, I believe that the school will benefit from so-called critical friends and colleague-based guidance. This will provide the necessary security, which is so important to provide the maximum. Self-assessment and evaluation of learning processes will thus come naturally. This is important to ensure that all students are trained to adapt to their assumptions. The assessment at local level is the cornerstone of the national strategy. The centre party is pleased that the necessary information collection from each school is not to be published but to assist the school, parents and municipal authorities as a basis for further development. The information shall also not be used for the ranking of schools. This will only lead to gap stack stamps. It is good that pilot projects with external involvement on a voluntary basis should now be launched in some Member States. For higher education, I assume that the apprentices are involved in this work, which has quality assurance, i.e. better training, as a goal; we must not forget that the aim of assessment is to learn and improve. It is good that the aggregation of the Secretariat of the Exam and the National Educational Centre is now being carried out. All hearing bodies have supported this in order to coordinate and strengthen central development work. The Committee stresses the need to clarify the role of the State Training Office in relation to the Development Centre. Finally, a word about the resource situation. There is a discussion about whether the differences in resource use in schools threaten the school or the school. I support the Government, which says it is important to follow developments closely, and the local economy is essential for the public school to maintain high standards and good quality.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e56	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e59	The representative of Tingelstad sees it as important that private schools be externally checked to maintain the necessary standards and quality. This may also be the position of the Progress Party. What's exciting about the Center Party and their vision is that they don't want the public and their schools to have the same quality control. It has recently been promoted in the press that the representative of the Center Party is critical of the approval of some private Christian schools by its own government. Could it not be that the Centre Party justifies its discrimination against public and private schools on the grounds that a control and evaluation on equal criteria could lead to a failure to obtain results from the representative Tingelstad?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e66	It is possible that I remember small ones, but I cannot remember that I myself have gone out and said that the private schools should be controlled somewhat more than other schools. All schools have their supervision via the Staten Education Office, and all schools will themselves provide a quality assurance of exactly what I have just said in my post, and what is in the big news. There should be no difference here in my judgement. There have been quite a few slit meters of discussion of private schools in relation to public schools in the last few days. Let me put it this way: in the Central Party, we have the attitude that diversity is good. However, we have said that in some cases the public school may suffer if many private schools give rise to public schools. Then our point is that we make sure we have such a good public school that it's not going to be so interesting to start private schools. That's the one. The second is that we have to provide an economy for the municipalities that are so solid that we get to the public school as good framework conditions as possible. That being said, it is a parental right to choose for their children. We respect that also in our party. Of course, what is stated in the Adult Declaration on Private Schools is something we are obliged to do, but that does not prevent us from discussing thoroughly the framework conditions for both public schools and private schools.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e75	From the Right side, there's no doubt that it's the public base ball that needs to have the strongest focus, and that it's the one we have to bet primarily on doing better. But we also view private schools as a very valuable supplement, for several reasons. In recent times we have raised some doubts about the views of the Central Party on the private spheres, cf. n.a. issued by Johan J. Jakobsen on 10 June. The representative of Tingelstad was also concerned with his answer now that it might be a criterion that public schools get damaged. Then I'm missing a little bit of principle thinking from the Center Party's side. The right of parent is, according to Right's view, something that we can't be for or against as it results from other things. If we do not intervene in the parental right, which is about parents being able to choose education for their children, then it is the support schemes we are left with, and we have the support schemes first and foremost to ensure that everyone, regardless of the economy, will have access to these schools. I'd like to know: what are the Center Party's objections to the private schools, and what are they going to 'assess', as is said in the newspaper essay? In a previous line, to the representative of Stråtvej, I showed that the Christian People's Party is in conflict with its own party program when they open trials with character-free youth schools. The central party has an equally strong formulation. They say in their program: ‘The centre party will work towards an assessment system in primary school, with grades in upper secondary school.’ How does this fit in now that they want to open up to attempts at the opposite?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e91	To take the last question first, the centre party is actually for school development. We may not be able to say the same thing about the Right at any time, because they will still have everything that it has been. Now that we've got a law of training, where we've all got the law together in one law, and when we've got a right for everyone to go to higher education, we're willing to participate in trying out trials of freedom of character in youth, as the Council of State stated earlier in our report. There's been a lot of discussion about this in the game. Two years ago, it wasn't the majority to say that we shouldn't have grades. In the case of private schools, on which the representative Løvik called for my fundamental view, I am in order that the parental right should apply to all parents, both those who want the public school, and those who want another alternative. I also look at private schools as an interesting supplement, also when it comes to developing new educational forms, which we see among other things. in the Montessori schools and in the Steiner schools. In those cases where there are very few students in a municipality and a branch, the principles can be opposed. But I think one has to think of parental rights either the parents want to choose the public school or a private school, and I am willing to look at schemes that allow us to keep public school, despite the fact that it may be difficult when private schools come in.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e102	Marit Tingelstad entered the single school and was a defender of the single school, she said – ‘the equivalent training offer’. In the Communication, the costs per year are set out in the following table: pupils, used as an example of differences also between municipalities in investing in education. The message indicates that there are large differences between municipalities. Some of this can be explained on the basis of population composition, etc., but it's quite obvious that it can't do everything. So my first question to Marit Tingelstad is, are they worried about the big differences that are revealed? Does she see any danger signal? She said she agreed with the message. It has described it in such a way that there may be some danger signals, but it must be followed up. We have put in a proposal to secure access to resources, i.e. setting minimum standards for the supply of resources. So the question is, wouldn't it be natural for the Center Party, which is engaged in the equivalent offer, to support the SV's proposal to regulate minimum standards? Marit Tingelstad also stated that the characterisation system – the evaluation system, the assessment system – should not be used to rank schools. We know this is happening today. We know that in several municipalities, character statistics are published, and this is used to rank schools — some schools are more popular than others on the basis of the individual professional characteristics. My question is: does it worry Marit Tingelstad that we see a development in which the schools are ranked this way? Would it not then be natural to support the SV's proposal on winding-up at least at the youth level of the individual character system?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e109	I get to start at the wrong end now as well and take the last question first. I fully agree with the representative, Mr Rikvam, who feels that it is unfortunate that grades are published and that there is going to be competition between schools in a way. It's typical in the competitive community we live in that it's about making points – making points about everything that is, and thus getting winners and losers. I'm against it. I am in order for us to have schools that have an inherent willingness to develop so that one can take care of all the students and provide a training offer to all the students, so that it is not the final character of the individual subject that should be significant, and I am not excited about what is happening in some municipalities, including in this city. So to the proposal on minimum standards and legalization of it. We in the Center Party are very much for local self-government, and if we're going to legislate too much of this, we think it'll be even less topical for school politicians at local level to discuss and design their policies. We have certain minimum standards in terms of laws and curricula, and I think that's what's best. But I am absolutely concerned that there are major differences in the access to resources, that is to say that SV is right, and I am therefore very concerned that the local economy needs to be ensured. I would like to remind you of the fight we fought two years ago when we increased the transfers to the municipal and county sectors by NOK 5 billion. It was hard here in the hall, but we did it, and fortunately, they're still in the system. That's not enough, we see, because now it's been earmarked in a lot of other areas that make areas against each other, and so we have to keep an eye on developments.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e116	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e119	I want to start with two main conclusions, as I see it, in the message. First of all, the message says that the single school is not in danger. This is the conclusion of the Communication following a relatively comprehensive discussion of the economy in primary school. Secondly, the Communication states that there is a slow pace of substantial content change in line with the new curriculum — both the general and the various professional curricula. We also lack, say the message, good systems and procedures for information, and we lack a comprehensive plan to ensure that curricula are implemented around Norwegian schools. In short, the knowledge we have, and the information we have, indicate that there is too much traditional classroom education. In the case of single school and economic conditions, the notification discusses this on the basis of three parameters: one has looked at the costs per year. student — the average cost per student. students around the municipalities, one has seen self-payment — the level of self-payment, and one has also taken up ICT, hardware density and connectivity to the Internet. In our view, there are alarming wide variations between municipalities in costs per person. student. The extra points are NOK 29 500 and NOK 115 000 per person. student. These extremes can be explained. What's more serious is the fact that 60 pst. of Norwegian municipalities, between NOK 30000 and NOK 50000 per municipality. student. Some of these differences can also be explained, but in our view, this is an expression of a different training provision, depending on the municipality in which you live. To illustrate the difference, we can use, for example, two schools in two different municipalities that use different amounts per. student. If we start from a high school that has three parallel classes of 25 students, the school in the municipality that spends $50,000 per student. Students – now it is clear that not everything goes to school, but we can still use the example – have 11 million. NOK at your disposal, while the school in the municipality where they only spend NOK 30 000 per person. Student, just want $6.7 million. NOK at the disposal of its activities. It should be obvious that a difference of more than 4 million. between these two schools which are subject to the same syllabus and which are required to carry out the same type of training, they must be equivalent. It's not going to be the same possibilities for sharing groups, for project work, or for individual arrangements in these two schools, which are located in two different municipalities. In the case of self-payment, the notification shows that municipalities require a self-payment for everything from draft books to other educational material. It is quite obvious that if self-payment is required for educational material necessary to conduct the teaching, this is contrary to the law. And the ministry should have said that part of that self-payment is in violation of the law, and that something has to be done about it. We can't sit and watch that it's required self-payment that you don't have the right to. As far as ICT is concerned, we are pleased that we have had an impact on our proposal, that it is unanimous in the Committee and that it has been presented as a proposal for a decision. The proposal may be around, but it's still a little more binding than previous decisions, because we're saying we're going to start with implementation, and we have a four-year time horizon to realize what's the goal of this. In the case of the content reform, i.e.: the contents of the school, I would like to point to an important sentence that the majority emphasises in the position, namely that all schools should define their educational and professional positions. This is important because it will ensure that schools discuss their educational and professional platform, and that they discuss what they are really doing and why they are doing what they are doing. It is also necessary to ensure a good evaluation. All assessment starts with planning. We can't assess if we don't agree to plan. The participation of students in the planning work is an absolute prerequisite for them to be able to participate in and evaluate and evaluate the work being done. What is planned, the participation of the students in that process, is absolutely necessary in order for them to be able to participate in and evaluate the implementation and the outcome. I refer to our suggestions that are set out in the setting. Otherwise, the Workers' Party has taken up the joint proposals on which the Workers' Party and SV stand together.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e141	Rolf Rikham has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e146	SV's resistance to evaluation and grades is well and traditionally anchored. On the other hand, SV has chosen to add basic geography. The place of residence shall be essential for the school to which it is intended to be able to attend. Doesn't the Left Party see problems in the fact that more or less objective characters, which also provide students with feedback on possibilities for improvement, are replaced by the feudalist wand bands of the Middle Ages? Because that is what is in the practical policy of the Socialist Left Party, namely to base geography on the recording. So SV will refuse students from Oslo East to go to school in Oslo West. From the point of view of the Progress Party, this is worrying, also because this will lead to isolation and a lack of understanding of each other's everyday life and problems. Because it can't be that it's to improve the quality of the schools on the west edge that SV will remove the students from the east edge?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e151	Quake town started with a postulate that's wrong. He said we're against assessment. It's a positive error. Because when he postulates it, he cannot have read the setting and our comments there. We're for evaluation. We're for school-based assessment. We are in favour of feedback from the different levels of government, for schools to assess their own activities and provide feedback in priority areas of action in the education sector. We're too qualitative, and this is exactly school assessment. It is those who participate in the everyday life of school, teachers, students and others who are involved in and assess the learning process that has taken place during a particular period of time. And as I pointed out in my introduction: if this is to have any purpose, those who are going to attend and evaluate must also be involved in planning. Otherwise, assessment has no purpose. Those to be assessed will not see the value of the assessment if they have not participated in the planning phase itself, i.e. that they have been involved in planning their teaching, and in this way they have the prerequisites to see how far they have progressed in relation to the objectives set when planning was started. It's true that we don't believe that one-sided professionals, based on the fact that students have to raise certain facts in a certain way, are a good way to evaluate. That is why, as the representative has understood, we have proposed to wind up this character system in primary school.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e160	The representative, Mr Rikham, raised the question of whether the single school was at risk, a key point, discussed the economy, and considered developments in school prostheses. The representative, Rikvam, is a politician who often wants to problematize claims in Norwegian school policy, and I am pleased with the concern he has about increased ownership in public school. The Christian People's Party believes that state supervision must be able to impose changes in practice if payment is made for educational material, equipment and activities necessary for post-secondary training. But in a note, the Socialist Left Party says that increased excesses can weaken the state of public schools, and then, in the same note, they make a link between the public school standard and the desire to start private schools. The last thing I agree with is that there is a link here. A good public school is the best protection against a strong private school wave. But it's not just economic relationships. Well so much means and so important is actually the content of the school, and so the dialogue with the parents here becomes very important in order to avoid this private school wave of which the Socialist Left Party is concerned. But the logic of the connection between increased self-payments in public schools and the danger of multiple private schools, I think, is rather doubtful, because students in private schools have to pay school fees, and thus there will be increased self-payments if they choose that type of school. I accept that the Socialist Left Party is skeptical to private schools in terms of life views and educational options, but doesn't SV see the writing on the wall, a wall that doesn't exist?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e167	Self-payment is an expression of public poverty. I think we can agree on that. The fact that municipalities and schools charge their own payments is simply because their budgets are too small, and therefore they go to this step and get accepted to charge for some of the things that they really shouldn't, and – in my opinion for some of them – are not allowed to pay for. When there is an increase in self-payment, people will see it as if the public school doesn't keep goals and that the public school is in decline. This, I believe, is a factor in weakening the state-owned school, which is essential and crucial to take care of. I think it is quite clear that there is such a connection that we have pointed out, and that there is reason to call out a warning. I agree with the representative Lyngstad that self-payment is certainly not the strongest reason why many want to establish private schools. I agree with him. But it's a moment that is an expression of public poverty, and it also helps speed up the process towards more private schools. Now we're not going to dramatize the proportion of private schools. That's not what's important to me, telling me that there's a violent bloom, but we're seeing an increasing trend. It worries me, and it should also worry others that more private schools are involved in weakening the public school.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e174	I have two questions for the representative, Rikvam. In the daily newspaper on Saturday there is a chronicle of one of the seniors in Norwegian school research, first amanunensis Alfred Oftedal Telhaug, as among others. confirms the following: «We know today that the good school cannot be bought for money if we spend the money on the framework factors. There is nothing in all our research findings or the lack of findings that suggests that money spent on framework factors makes the school better." Then he says a little bit further in the same chronicle -- it's about popularism that it's the teacher that's the key factor in school: ‘And now, as this insight has also been demonstrated by research, for the only sure finding of what gives good learning outcomes, performance varies primarily from class to class.’ My question is: does the representative of Rikvam worry that school research is not at all supportive of what is his main point of view on the crucial importance of resources and framework factors in the quality of school? Or a little bit more acute: does it worry him that the research says it's the opposite of what SV says? So the second question: SV strongly argues against grades in any context. SV goes a step further than the working party, which will only intensify experimentation without grades. In fact, the Workers’ Party is also pushing the conclusion, but SV will have a plan to phase out the characteristics of the youth. Now, both the Swedish Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party say that we have a 13-year-old unit school. Why, then, are you so modest as to stop your youth? Why not also include post-secondary education? Isn't this a half-hearted form of war against characters?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e191	Let me first make it clear that SV has not said that we have a 13-year-old school in this country. It is not in the setting, and we have never said this either. Inge Wohnning worried that he has not got the chance to vote for or against a proposal to remove the characters of the youth, but I can reassure him, for in connection with St.meld. No 32, in the case of higher education, it is likely that Inge Wohnung and others will have the chance to support a proposal to reduce the use of grades in higher education. I'm sure it'll come! Wages are going to get the chance to be on it too. I agree with Inge Wohnning and Telhaug that the teacher is the key factor for a good school. But it's clear that there's a connection between resource effort and the number of teachers. It should be obvious to everyone that if each class has a certain number of hours at its disposal and thus the ability to deploy a larger teacher resource, that is. Several teachers in one class, because the teachers are a key factor, will just fit into what Telhaug is doing, that is, making it easier for us to have a school with well-trained teachers and good coverage for teachers in each class. This is in the middle of the butter eye, where we in SV hold, and where we wanted the right also to be. Because it's the economic framework factors that ensure a certain number of teachers in each class and give rise to the division that we're looking for. That's what we want to set minimum standards for. I feel that we're good at what research shows, if one then sets minimum standards after minimum hours, which opens up for a minimum number of teacher's hours per. class.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e198	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e201	Today, the Stortinge discusses quality development in the school. Obviously, there is consensus among all the parties that quality in school is important, but there are very good perceptions of what quality is, and how it can develop. After the Left’s assessment, the good school is characterised by a learning organisation that constantly assesses its own activities and focuses on students’ learning, and where the school’s users and environment are involved in the development. It is with pleasure that I can see that there is a quality development according to these principles The majority of the Storting ends up today. The left will ensure the single school, which will be a common meeting place for children with different social and cultural backgrounds. But it's a misunderstanding when the Workers' Party says it's a majority to say that we have a 13-year-old school in Norway. What we note in the comments is that higher education is also a common meeting place for almost all young people. The left is concerned that schools should reflect the diversity of student groups. This means, among other things: schools need to be given the freedom to develop their schools according to local challenges. Therefore, we will return the schools to independent institutions where creativity and creativity are to be cultivated among the individual teacher and student – not suffocated by directives from above or by one-sided education. Anyone who has read some organizational theory knows that development has the best soil where there is human commitment and room for action. This is precisely why it is so important that a strategy for quality development at school should be based on a single school, as the Government has achieved an impact. The premises underpinning the assessment and quality work are that work should stimulate development and innovation work, not focus on control. It shall ensure good communication between different levels and all those involved in the development of each school, namely the management of the school, the teachers, the pupils, the parents and the community. It is important that all these actors participate in the development and evaluation work. External guides can provide general insight and help schools to evaluate their activities. Such a system will contribute to greater transparency about school's activities, which I believe is very important for increasing school engagement and knowledge, thus providing a good basis for further development. It is also very important that reporting procedures be simplified and improved and that information obtained from schools be of practical value to development work. Too many school leaders and teachers struggle to fill out forms and reports that make little sense to them, and that may not always be as meaningful to the recipients either. The left's fight against bureaucracy in school has been passed on in theory. It is now important that the perspective of a simpler Norway is also emphasised in practice when new practices are to be established, so that forces for development are triggered. In other words, the government has taken advantage of a strategy that adds to increased local space for action and less bureaucracy. Anyone who listened to the education debate on 7 May should share my wonder why the Right Party does not support such a strategy. In that debate, representatives from the Right strongly advocated strengthening local freedom and diversity in School Norway. In comments and proposals for this big message, the lot is in favour of the opposite. Right wants a central control body and will have several standardised tests. I have to ask the Right: what did the Party mean about diversity and local freedom of action? Does the Right really think there will be a diversity of more standardisation, or innovation and quality development of control? No, I think those who know the school in Norway best – the students, the teachers and the parents – are grateful that the Stortinget today chooses a strategy for quality development where knowledge of the individual school and local involvement is the main foundation. This is a recognition that those who know where the shoe prints are the best people to develop the school further. External supervisors can help to shed light on the school’s development potential by drawing on other experiences. We who work at a national level should define the direction of development and facilitate the possibility for those who are going to do the job in practice. This, in my view, is the best basis for continuous school development, so that children and young people are given the best possible basis for creating a good life.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e233	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e236	Completely short in this round of the question of Right's view of control. We connect freedom in method with control of targets. That's what's right about its way of doing this. I'd like to deepen it later. I have to admit that I get a little tired and stated sometimes. When I challenge the Central Party that their programmes are in conflict with the proposal for attempts at non-characteristic youth schools, I am told that the reason is that the Center Party is for school development. When I confront the Christian People's Party that this proposal is also contrary to their programme, contrary to national meeting decisions they have made, I get the answer that there were other decisions open to this. And the decision to which it is referred is right enough that the Christian People's Party believes that a greater degree of informal assessment in the youth sphere should be developed in addition to the formal one. There is a sea of distance between having a rating-free assessment and having it instead of a rating. Of course, having a non-characteristic assessment as an additional assessment is in Right 100 pst. some i. I don't know if Left is as easy as the other two central parties, but I'm going to have Mr. Fladmark answer that with the President's approval. & Left's application formulation if available: «Left will maintain the characteristics of the youth.» Then my question is: is it really that the Left will break this and help the Workers' Party and SV to heal the character system, or will they vote for Right's proposal, which allows you to follow up the program?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e262	The question put by the representative Løvik gave me the opportunity to refer from the last national decision in the Left when it comes to grades at school, on which we had a point in the school programme that we adopted, namely point 14, ‘Not just grades’: «The student's ability to perceive and acquire knowledge is today too much measured in terms of grades. It is not sustainable that the work done by the students in a year alone should result in a letter or a number. The individual assessment must be strengthened and an assessment system must be developed that promotes the development and learning of the student and inspires engagement and further work.» Just this application point I feel very strongly and well cared for in the staging message that the Left supports in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e272	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e275	In the Waksenå Declaration, it is called, among other things,\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. ‘A decentralised school structure is an important characteristic of the single school. The increased differences in school provision between municipalities and regions undermine the single school based on equivalence in education provision across the country. A central government will ensure a local economy that allows for the maintenance of primary schools and a decentralised school pattern.’... ‘In addition, in order to cope with this, certain national standards for the school system and review of the criteria of the income system of the municipalities are necessary.’ Now it is almost two years since the Waksenå Declaration was written, and in connection with this debate on the single school there may be reason to summarise how far you have come. National standards were able to go away after a year. Last year, when the government submitted proposals for training law, they were gone. And, in the case of primary schools, what do we see there? Well, we see that all-round schools are laid down, and even more had been laid down if it wasn't for the government to make a life saving last autumn using the beauties of the Ministry of Local Affairs. According to KS, the local economy, which was to be improved, was worse in 1998 than in 1997, when the government took over, and it appears to be even worse in 1999 than it was in 1998 – a deterioration which, according to KS, affects children and young people. In some cases it may be right to drop out of a primary school, for example: in a municipality where the population has fallen, but when the reason for the closure of the primary school is that the municipality cannot afford it, then it is a great pity. But unfortunately it happens. In addition, the central government has introduced something completely new. We see it in the Awake, we see it in Tana. And I've talked to a lot of municipal politicians who are worried that it's going to happen in their small municipality that a school has to be laid down because the department approves applications for private schools over a low shoe, without scoring to the student base in the municipality. For every student who starts in private school, the municipality loses almost NOK 30 000. This weakens a school budget that has often had to endure many cuts before. So the government can't live up to its promises of a better community economy and the preservation of primary schools, it provides the opposite way. The message still says on page 29: ‘By its assessment, the analysis provided in this message does not indicate that there is a basis for making new proposals for changes to the financial system for the local government sector.’ And further down on the same side, it's called: ‘So far, in the view of the Ministry, there is no basis for claiming that the variability of the local economy itself threatens the principle of equivalent training in the light of the requirements of law and regulation.’ And just to make it clear once more, the government in the message proposes no changes to the law and regulation. So in other words, there is nothing that threatens the school of unity. I notice that in the quotes I referred to, the ministry believes that there is no basis for proposing a change in the funding system for municipalities, and that is the ministry that believes that there is no reason to argue that the variations in the local economy threaten the principle of equivalent training. You can ask yourself if this is a statement that ‘I want, but not the ministry’. Anyway, we don't get away from the fact that it's the government, and it's the center parties, which in this way says the exact opposite of what they said in the Adultås Declaration. I can repeat that, because it was a little swayed by the formulations that said: ‘The increased differences in school provision between municipalities and regions undermine the single school based on equivalence in education provision across the country.’ But that was, that was, and not now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e317	How's our school going? What action should we take to increase the well-being and quality of education in schools and in educational establishments to help elephants and apprentices learn more about what is important and worth learning? Both the assessment and development perspectives are central to the main message ‘Towards richer objectives’. The school development perspective is highlighted as an objective in recognising that improvement in practice can only be achieved through renewal work at the level of classrooms and workshops. The main thing for me has been to make it clear that we need, first and foremost, a comprehensive national strategy on how actors at all levels can do their part to renew and improve school and educational practices. I would like to remind you that the majority of the committee underlined this in a note to the state budget for the current year. From a minority in the Committee, the Government is criticized for not proposing a national assessment system, as requested by the Stortinge in its time. On the other hand, this might be as much about the use of words as about reality. When I haven't used the phrase 'national assessment system' in the message, it's primarily because it would easily move the centre of gravity from the school development process to the central system for measuring and controlling learning outcomes, product. The message is equally clear that we need good advice for evaluating what's going on in schools and in educational establishments, in order to gain more reliable knowledge of what's good for learning. In addition to more systematic internal school assessment, the Government will include: further develop arrangements for evaluation through user surveys and improved state reporting by education directors and statistical data collection systems, have a more systematic review of the state of individual fields of education and learning, further development of national character and learning support tests and screening tests and the continuation of Norwegian participation in international studies. So the government's discussion of the assessment tasks in the message is not one-sidedly concentrated on self-assessment at and under the direction of the individual school. The message's starting point is: Quality is created locally, in classrooms, workshops and schools. Therefore, the concrete design of methods and strategies for assessment and quality work in the school must be anchored locally. Of course, at the same time it shall be in accordance with national objectives and premises. I found the majority in the Committee to have balanced this in a good and comprehensive way when they said that: «the Member State sets its national targets, calls for results in different fields and implements national efforts, but it is up to the local government sector to define the tools for development». I am pleased that a relatively broad majority in the Church, Education and Research Committee joins the main lines of the Storing Message. At certain points, the majority have given additional comments that clarify and deepen the text of the message in a positive and good way. It gives a useful signal both for the further work in the department and for the local follow-up in municipalities and county municipalities and in the individual school or apprenticeships. I register, among other things: p, li {white-space: pre-wrap;} The multi-digit number is busy to stimulate the reorganization and use of new ways of working to attract pupils, parents/trainees and the social partners more actively into assessment and quality work to improve national reporting systems while avoiding more red tape and unnecessary reporting obligations to supplement traditional tests and tests with methods that capture all aspects of learning The Committee supports the proposal for a pilot project to open the school to external resource groups, called ‘critical friends’. I think such a project can move the focus from a little fruitful debate on control and inspection to a more constructive dialogue on how the school can take advantage of contact with, impulses and advice from the environment and resource people from outside. Furthermore, I am very pleased that the majority of the Committee supports the proposal to pool resources and competences that are currently spread across several bodies in a national development centre. At this point, the majority of the Committee calls for some clarifications when it comes to the division of labour, tasks and organisational structures, etc. in relation to the training offices. I see clearly that there is a need to go up some border crossings, and will return to Stortinget with a closer assessment of this, as requested in the setting. In one central area, a comprehensive government committee challenges: when it comes to investing in ICT as a teaching tool in schools. It is not clear from the proposal how far the Committee will go when it applies, for example. government finance for investment tasks, which is initially a municipal responsibility. I promised in my education policy in May that I would present a revised national action plan for the use and development of ICT in education later this year. It would be natural for me to see the Committee's proposal in conjunction with this plan.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e355	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e358	I fully agree with the Council of State that the Committee of the Regions has found a fine balance between national and local assessment and emphasising between them. One of the few areas where the Workers' Party and SV disagree with the government parties is when it comes to the resource situation. Sennøve Konglevoll referred to what KS has said about the economy for 1998 and also for the current year, namely that this situation also affects children and young people. Studies now carried out by the Teacher Team in 199 of its teams have also shown that, in order to achieve a share of the older reform, special education, sharing hours, etc. have been used. But the council says in the message that there are no greater inequalities now than you can live with it. In a TV 2 programme on the same night as the Committee gave its opinion, it was published that it is quite concrete that the elderly are taken from school, and then the Council of State says that he will consider either earmarking or switching much more to completely free resources, so that it is not especially the school that suffers. I don't think you can continue a system where the school of those degrees is suffering, as has been seen in several studies. And the question is: will the Council of State now use earmarked funds, or has he started the second part of the work – namely to move on to even more of the free resources?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e367	I have documented a situation of differences in school, but with the conclusions I draw, that there is no reason to say that some do not meet their minimum standards. But I've also said that in those municipalities that have play for a long time, it's alarming, and there we'll follow developments closely. Then this debate has gone on – as the committee leader says – and it has been said that the Teacher Team has an investigation that is such and such, and that in a way shows that the impact of the large investment in other sectors will go beyond school. I was also informed by TV2 – as mentioned here – that the committee leader wants to discuss other ways of organising the transfer to school, in order to avoid that. It wasn't made for me that this was leading some conclusion from the Labour Party's side, but that a desire to discuss it. I also thought there was a reason to do that. For this reason, I have taken up the challenge and said that if the developments following the information we have presented here show a more dramatic situation, it is clear that we need to look at it, and we have said that we should follow developments closely. I believe that the local self-government would have been best advised that we had ear marks to the minimum possible. But now both the government and a nearly co-consensual growth have largely carried out these big investments, and there are earmarks. So it's clear that that's sort of the decision. In that situation, we stand, and then we have to follow evolution. The debate to which the Chairman of the Committee has been invited will be attended by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e384	The councils have just raised two issues that I think it is important to look a little bit closer to. One of them came into his reply. It is the minimum requirements of the law, yes, the minimum requirements of the law for systems, buildings and hours, not minimum requirements in relation to the knowledge objectives of the individual student. Furthermore, in his introduction he had something to say about what is important to learn, and then it is natural to wonder who at any time defines what is important for everyone to learn, and how this goal of the important is achieved. What criteria does the Council of State base for its strategy for the assessment and development of the ‘acquis ’ precisely in order to identify what is important to learn? The quality is localised in the relationship between the individual teacher and the individual child — and the knowledge is actually held by the individual child. In a development perspective of which the Council of State is very concerned — its burning desire to develop further, to make experiments, to get the tests through — it must be timely to ask whether the State, at the Council of State, sets national targets and criteria for this, and according to exactly what.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e393	I quoted in my post what the Committee majority has summed up by what is important to learn. That I thought was quite good formulations, and it was they I took. What I am busy about, both in the trial and in the development work locally, on which Ursula Evje's representative came in, I will try to say a little about it. Some other speakers have also spoken about it today. Reform 94 and Reform 97 provide exciting new thinking on the role of teachers, the role of students and project-based learning. Furthermore, we have received very good evidence that it is insofar as one is able to engage the student in the participation of learning; the student is receiving learning outcomes. Exposure counts more than the frame factors around it. Furthermore, the studies show that we do not have the means to achieve the reforms when they apply to them. There's a development going on, but not as much as we might have thought. It is important that we now get the anxiety away from the teacher, who has somehow felt a burden on his shoulders that has been assigned to him by us central politicians, and instead comes with a statement of confidence to him that we believe it is possible to get to a national development. We're going to create a system, as I tried to explain in my article. We're not done with it, I'm going to do it, but we've shown a way of finding the balance between the local involvement and the working light, and still have a national overview of what we get out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e404	The local creation of the results is not a matter of disagreement. Of course, they are created in the daily work of the individual classroom. The question is how to trigger the creative forces in the school environment in each class situation, while ensuring that there is national equivalence in learning outcomes. That's the point that I have the feeling that the message the Council of State has provided does not give an answer, because it does not at all give a clear answer on how to achieve national equivalence. An infinite amount of beauty can be said about the local initiative, but if we want to maintain the principle that we should have an equivalent national school offer, the Council of State owes it to give an answer to how this national consideration should be taken into account. I pointed out in my speech earlier today that the section dealing with experience from other countries is the thinnest of all sections of the whole message, and that as far as I can see, there has been no attempt to draw exchanges of experience from other countries and their school system. I would like to hear the Council of State comment a little bit more on why he has not tried to assess the possibilities that might lie in other countries' way of doing this? I quoted earlier today from the Council of State's interview with the evening post yesterday, and I have a question in this regard: In the case of private schools, the Council of State uses the words "control" and "control" and rejects any principle of self-service. No one at their own discretion should invite critical friends there. Why is what is right about private schools, spins wrong about public schools?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e419	First I would like to say that I am pleased that the representative of the payroll said it was a good quote and quite well expressed, but the truth is that there is equal treatment of private and public schools. We have a lot of arrangements for the schools that we approve of. Of course, they get exceptions: the stone ball when it comes to pedagogical freedom, and the life-vision spheres when it comes to deepening more in its direction. But they're going to learn what's common, and it's the education offices, that's our own system, that's supposed to be responsible for supervision and guidance in relation to it. Public schools also have to stick to the exact same system, so here's the non-treatment of these two school levels. After the representative, I have read articles today through the international section of the message. It also needs to be seen a little in relation to a previous enlargement message, where several international experiences have been taken into account. Scotland has built up an indicator system that is quite wide and not only has elements that can be clearly measured. It's much wider than what our rating system is based on. Sweden has implemented what we do with critical friends as an attempt, but has not completed any scheme. Denmark has developed institutions similar to those we are developing now, but also with something in addition to it. Everyone finds their way, but everyone is on the lookout, and one should go on. If the representative on the payroll reads through my post, he sees that I also have a number of measures to look at the level out. I have said that every second year we will give a thorough message to Stortinget – a good way to make use of that reporting system – so that Stortinget can discuss the situation in Norwegian school. I think we give as much response in our big message as in the committee setting, as is the fragmentary entry from Wage and what is in the right minority settings.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e430	I want to start by giving praise to the Council because he let go of trying to create a national assessment system and went over to proposing a national strategy, because when we look at what the Right has proposed here today, when you look at what they think about the assessment system, it could have gone wrong. So I have to say that I am glad that today we are not dealing with a message where we are discussing school supervision, diagnostic tests, intermediate grades, and standardized tests. We might be left with that if we were to try to create a national assessment system. So over to what I really want to get into in relation to the introduction of the Council of State, namely the school of unity and self-payment. The message says that in 9 pst. of the municipalities there are schools paying for textbooks. 15 pst. of the municipalities have schools paying for writing, drafting and drawing. This is in the big message. And my question to the Council of State is: does he think it is sound and in accordance with Norwegian law that we have schools in this country that charge for the type of teaching material? And if the answer is that this is not in accordance with Norwegian law, what will the Council of State do besides that he registers it and follows it carefully to see developments? If it is contrary to Norwegian law to charge for this type of teaching material, it must be clear that this is not the case in Norwegian school. The type of material for which parents do not pay. So the state council said something to Grete Knudsen, which was that if the situation with regard to equivalent educational provision and resource use gets dramatically worse than it is today, we have to look at designation or minimum standards. How much more dramatic is the situation going to be before the Council of State will look at it?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e439	: To the last. We have had a thorough collection of information, and she has no reason to say that someone does not meet the minimum requirements. It must be clear that we cannot intervene in relation to municipalities that do what they are required to do. At the same time, we know that there are some messages that this is getting worse. That's not a good enough reason to act, but I've said that I'm open to being in a debate about it, because I'm going to admit that I didn't see for myself how much consequences it could have that an ear-marked means to such a large part of the new reforms, and I think well, without being unrewardable, that it's not safe for the Storting to do that either. And I thought we should be able to discuss that, but I can't quantify how much more. So let's do it with the cash. Here the department of a circular to the municipalities points to what is wrong, insofar as it is evidence that a user's own payment is not supposed to do so. When it comes to day-to-day schoolwork, it is said clearly from the municipalities that this is not possible, and the promises will be clearly clarified in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e446	I was not entirely satisfied with any of the two answers given by the Council of State. In this respect, with the international perspective, there are more European countries than Denmark and Sweden and the northern tip of the British islands. There are quite a number of European countries with school systems that are consistent with our Norwegians, and what I think is deficient in making a big message to discuss in its full breadth and depth the question of national evaluation, is that there is no interest at all in drawing comparisons with other European countries and the experience gained there. Then to the Council of State's response to my reference to the Evening Post interview. I must say that I am even a little bit more surprised at the position of the answer on the side of the question. For what the Council of State does is actually something far more than referring to the existence of educational offices. He says he's going to systematize supervision of private schools, and he says it's important to maintain that it's not the one that's being checked, who's going to appoint the inspector, neither in this or in any other context. And that's where I get problems with the logic. The Council of State presents a major report on public schools, in which he actively argues against the very principle that he here regards as self-evident in terms of quality assurance of private schools. Therefore, I have to repeat the question: Why is this quality assurance necessary in private schools, while it is not an emergency – but according to the Storing Communication contrary to harmful – in public schools?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e455	The last first, once again: here, the State, the Ministry of Education, Education and Research, gives some instructions both when it comes to the extent to which one is allowed to deviate from the teacher's plan, and when it comes to what one has to take in as a supplement. There are a number of schools that have been approved for educational arrangements – for the first time – for example. life-sightbulbs. In a way, they get a profile that it hasn't been before, but they've got clear statements for the profile. Now we want a systematic follow-up of this, because after I have gone through the way we control private schools, I see that it has been something random, and I want to use the education offices to get a systematized review of it. The part of the answer to which the representative's salary was very much in line, was largely supervised in relation to home education and the principle of who is like the seventh and the last, after one has cooperated on it, should have the final word. And the final word must, in my view, have the public. So to the answer to the question of the international section, with which the representative was not satisfied. I'm going to give the representative a payroll right at one point: it could have been more detailed in several countries, and it could have been a deeper analysis in that section. Now I must say that the level of precision of the representative's salary was not particularly high today either. When it comes to every country in Europe right now implementing, as he said, he included among others. Our Nordic neighbours, who do not implement what the Right proposes here, but who also implement what the Government proposes. So we might well agree that both the representative Wage and the Council of State could go into this more thoroughly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e466	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e469	The Norwegian primary school is one of the reasons Norway is one of the countries in the world where there is the least difference between people. Norway is one of the most egalitarian societies in the world, and it is an important quality in itself. Despite shortages and disabilities, the school is the most stable and well-organised institution that addresses children and young people. It is therefore very important that our school should be as good as possible. This message is part of the work of making the school even better. There are many good assessments that have been made in the message, and the Working Party largely adheres to it and writes together with the government parties in the setting. The children meet the school with different assumptions. They are more or less fit to meet the conditions of a complex school community. Many think it's a bold project to put a class of 20-30 students on a common scheme, but the teachers usually have to do it. And as we know, it won't be long before it's crystallized a group of students like this. have learning problems, behavioural problems or read problems. These students will experience a loss, and in that situation most will be throughout school. This includes, inter alia: a situation in which we should be able to avoid putting our children in. We can ask if we really meet the schoolchildren in a good way. 5-6-year-olds sprang up with ideas, questionable and knowledge-intensive. At my discretion, the most important thing school can do is to take care of these traits of the children. When we meet them again as 15-16-year-olds, we unfortunately see how far we have left before we have the power to create a school that nourishes the innate curriculum. I would particularly like to take up the high school in my post today, because that's perhaps the school we've forgotten in recent years about school reforms. There I think there's a lot that needs to be done better, especially because this group of students is at the most vulnerable age, they're between children and adults. The Labour Party wants more adults to enter high school, not necessarily teachers, but more adults who can participate and improve the learning environment. I will refer to a municipality in Akershus, the municipality of Bærum, which has now adopted a youth plan. In that plan, they plan to give schools the opportunity to hire environmental workers in high school. We believe that more adults will be involved in improving the learning environment in high school. We also want the individual-based assessment to be deleted in the long term by means of youth grades. The characteristics and examination system have two practical purposes, namely to form the basis for the selection of the profession and further training and to be a motivating and disciplining instrument. There has been a lot of discussion about grades here today. In particular, I have noticed that the Right Party and the Advance Party have very great faith in the educational effect of the grades. But no one has yet been able to demonstrate the positive effects of such a system. Many believe that the primary school has become a better school since the formal assessment was lost. At least a child’s step has been given the opportunity to practice a learning-centred evaluation, where students can get feedback on their progress and thus have a basis for self-confidence, interest development and self-confidence.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e488	There is a huge difference in education and school policy between the right and left of the United Kingdom. On the one hand, we have the Progress Party and the Right, which are talking exclusively about control measures. They want school supervision, they want diagnostic tests at every class step, they want standardized tests, and the Progress Party will even have its own complaint body. So their whole point is that they're going to get the school better by testing the students and the teachers. If one just hangs over the shoulders of the teachers and the students, then most of it has to be good. It is possible that such a school could create some winners. Obviously, those who deal with such a situation, who get pressure and get through it, will be winners in society. The problem is that we also get losers, those who are not attached, who get the impression – and get confirmed – that they are not so good, and who are accused of not being as good and as good and as valuable and as valuable as the sideman is, given that they have slightly worse grades in some subjects. That school thinking is terrible old-fashioned. I don't understand how, year after year, you can stand here and say exactly the same and fight for the school to become more and more old-fashioned. It must be easy for the representative to make posts here in the school policy room, because he can strictly use only the same post he used last year, as he used the year before there, and as right-wing people have used in infinite times. On the other hand, we have the policy which, among other things, The working party stands for where we want to do something about education and the school environment. We go in order to have more adults in schools. We're in favour of a system of better and cheaper textbooks. We want a bet on the indoor climate and the indoor environment, and we want a stronger student participation. If the framework conditions are there, we rely on the competence of the teachers and the ability and willingness of the students to learn. ‘School of Unity’ is the sub-title of this message. The single school means that the school has to be for everyone, that there has to be equivalent offers, and that we don't have to have a school that creates unnecessary distinctions, but that builds bridges between the students. A division into groups in all sorts of ways is very unfortunate. In this context, the debate on private schools comes in. We believe that it's through the kids going to school, that they're together, that they're learning tolerance and developing understanding. If different groups are withdrawn from high school, the school environment is demolished healthy, and we get a very unfortunate split. One of the main tasks of the school is to enable children and young people to meet the outside community. We know that society is terribly complex, and we know that it's becoming more and more complex. If we don't then manage to keep having a school that's for everyone, that gives all the same opportunities and a common ballast, we risk having a crash when these kids go out into society and meet a society that's so complicated. That's why it's really sad that it looks like private schools are almost being approved over the counter, and that they're starting to be a threat to the single school. The government is doing nothing. It's okay enough that the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party disagree in principle on many things in terms of viewing private and public schools. But what I think is quite incredible is that you don't even want to take inward that it's a problem. My impression is that you blink your eyes again, close your ears and hope everything goes well. In fact, I could perhaps trace a very, very small admission today in the change of line after the state council's posts, when he said something like that the supervision of private schools has been too random. Now I don't know what the council has intended to do with it, but at least it was a slight admission. It was now a little bit, but it's still a long way to go before this is good.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e503	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e506	I understand that, in a previous row, SV did not want to affect the consequences of its own school policy, in terms of geographical intake. I will therefore leave it in this round and focus on some of the other problems you get in today's schoolwork. Today there are too many children who do not get the necessary professional benefit from going to this glorified single school. So many as 20 pst. would be considered to be functional illiterates. This may, in our opinion, be due to the fact that today’s school regime is only concerned with system control and not necessarily concerned with the content and evaluation of this. In order to ensure that students acquire the necessary knowledge and skills, the Progress Party proposes that an independent body be set up to carry out this important task. A system similar to the English OFSTED system should be established where independent school inspectors evaluate the schools. They must have sufficient professional competence and should therefore not necessarily be full-time inspectors. Norway does not have long traditions for this, and a direct transfer of the system will of course not be problem-free. It is therefore also interesting that the Workers' Party, which in its school policy embraces Tony Blair in England and his school, does not want to introduce into practical politics and school-working days what they actually go out and tell is good, and what you should bet on. The Progress Party believes that a directorate should be set up that has its own Director and Board of Directors and, of course, it can be assessed whether this Directorate should have any other tasks. But the important thing is to clean up school bureaucracies and to give them clear responsibilities, so as to avoid a mix of roles. Of course, with regard to the competence of inspectors, there will be a question of the direction of study to be evaluated. In addition to those with the necessary educational background, it may also be considered that local resource people with competence in many fields should be assessed, for example: — and not at last — there is, in fact, a desire to cooperate with someone who is a significant educational factor in secondary school.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e519	A year ago, more specifically on 28 May 1998, I promoted an interview about the situation in the primary school in Kongsvinger municipality. All parents/parents joined the parental reaction "The limit has been reached" and on 11 May B.C.E. became all schoolchildren, approx. 2000, taken out of teaching. This action was started when parents/parents believe that their children do not receive an equivalent school offer compared to the offer in other municipalities. In meetings with parents and teachers' councils, they have claimed: The so-called §8 students only get approx. 50 pst. of the additional resources recommended by the PP service. The 6-year reform has been introduced without the addition of more teachers — teachers have been taken from the other classes. Teachers have a high level of sick leave, as well as many unqualified temporary workers. Several schools lack premises for body training.Many of the schools have poor indoor climate. The list could have been much longer. One year later, the situation has not improved significantly. I am afraid that several municipalities in Norway have a similar relationship in the schoolwork, and in this respect I refer to the results of the study to Norwegian Teacher Teams in 199 local teams. I wish that both locally and centrally, there would be an even greater focus on education and skills development. This is very important both for individuals and for individual districts. Municipalities are entrusted with many major tasks, not least in the care of the elderly. There is a necessary development of the care of the elderly in all our municipalities, and there has been a unanimous agreement here in the house. Unfortunately, many municipalities are struggling with poor finances, and other sectors need to be depriorised in order to make the elderly. In many municipalities, this has gone beyond the appropriations for education, school leisure, etc. In his response to my interpellation, the Council of State showed, among other things, that a state report would be drawn up, which would be submitted to the Stortinget. This report forms the basis for the ongoing debate. I have noticed that the committee, among others. states that all children should have equal opportunities to develop according to their own abilities, level of development and needs. It is important to ensure an equivalent national school provision, as the Committee has pointed out. I'm excited about what the Council of State will do to help ensure that this objective can become a reality in all our municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e562	I note that the government party insists on entering into trials with non-characteristic youth schools, in conjunction with the Workers' Party and SV. This is – as we have seen here today – contrary to their party program. The Christian People's Party and the Left have justly said that they have other decisions that open up other assessments as well as characters. It's okay, but in addition, it's very far from trying to score without a rating. We note that this is the case, and that debate always gives us the opportunity to resume. The right has been challenged in the debate about what we put in this with freedom of choice, especially in the youth sphere. We have said from the Right's side that we are particularly concerned about the youth ball as the step that is probably the bottleneck of the Norwegian education system today. [[Løvik]] E.g.: says 30 pst. by the students that they like to go to school in the ninth grade. This is a caution we should take seriously, and we will try to make the youth ball a little more adapted to the individual by combining the basic subject with an optional one to either deepen these basic subjects or go into other disciplines. We are also pleased with Right's view that the teacher is the most important and perhaps the only detectable single element that affects the quality of the school. We are busy with this, and we will come back to it in connection with the recruitment message. But it's quite clear that both teachers and elephants in order to deliver their best need a learning environment and an indoor climate that stimulates learning. Right is occupied with this, and we say it's a clear responsibility for school owners to see that both indoor and learning environments are so good that it's possible to work there. This is partly due to money, but there is also some knowledge outside the individual municipality, and we will therefore support SV and the Workers' Party's proposal, no. 1, which aims at setting up a National Trade Union Council for Inland Climates and the Learning Environment. So finally to the representative Norvoll, who says that right-wing exclusive is concerned with control, testing, inspection, etc.What's our point is that we want to give the individual school, the individual principal and the individual teacher much greater freedom in the way of organizing education based on local circumstances and on the individual student's leadership. But to make sure that we still have an equivalent standard, which we all at least verbally express that we want, we are in order to ensure the equivalent supply is sufficient to have control mechanisms that give feedback. We want inspections where one can look at this, and – most importantly – provide advice on improvements in Norwegian schools.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e579	We've been through several school reforms in the last few years at a bit of a pace. The focus has been structural changes and new curricula. The Government notes in the Communication that the content of the reforms has given rise to the greatest problems. The Christian People's Party agrees that we now need to focus on the content reform. If we are to succeed in this, we must get a process in each school on the educational and professional point of view. Focusing on content also implies using the local environment as a learning resource. Furthermore, the headmaster is rediscovered as an inspiration and a driving force in the school environment. If we are to succeed, individual teachers also need to gain confidence in teaching. It is in this context that we need to understand the strategy for national assessment. Here is the cornerstone school-based assessment with participation from colleagues, parents and students. The Christian People's Party is concerned that we should get a good and exciting local school development, local authorities must also take responsibility and participate. At each school, the headmaster must be a driving force. In each municipality, school administration and political management must take responsibility, but it is also desirable to give the contents of the school a local anchor, and representatives from the community must also be included. They may be representatives of local business and local teams and associations. I have previously encouraged the setting up of municipal development councils as a driving force for local school development. This may be at the heart of a local school development network and local anchoring of school activities. We have now received a new test paragraph in the Training Act. I hope that schools and municipalities use this, and that the Council of State practises it in a liberal and factual way. I am pleased that the Government is now taking hold of the content reform and focusing on quality and local school development. I note that the Government is receiving support for this in today's debate. Otherwise, I also find that the representative Løvik from the Right has waged a brave fight to prevent attempts at other forms of assessment in high school. Let me just say that the Christian People's Party does not break its program or national meeting decisions, in that way I have a good conscience.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e590	The representative Kukkestad thought he had not received an answer to a question that he had to me, which went on a geographical intake. I'll try to help him with that. When it comes to admission to primary school, Kukkestad may be briefed that it is stipulated in the Training Act that the students should be admitted to their nearest school, so I did not feel the need to say anything more about this. It's a piece of legislation that has broad support here in the Chamber. If it was high school he was involved in, we in SV, along with a lot of other parties here in the hall, have been followers of geographic admission to the general field of study. I guess that's what we're talking about, and that's where we have a problem. I have to say that we are proud of the system we have around in most counties, where one takes students on the basis of where they live and place them in schools depending on their place of residence, as opposed to the system developed in Oslo, where one takes in the students depending on the characteristics they have accumulated in high school. That's a bad way to place students. We see a trend towards A and B schools, and it's a development that we don't want. That's why we've been, for general school education — because that's what we're talking about — a supporter of students being placed in school depending on their place of residence. There's been a bunch of terms that have been thrown out here, and we haven't defined them. The term ‘one-stop school’ has been used repeatedly by the Right without anyone trying to define the term. I feel the need, now at the end of the debate, to define what I'm adding to this term. The single school is for me a school for all children. It's a school with individualised training provision, it's a school with common curricula, a general part and the different curricula, and it's not least a school with mixed classes. For me, this is the foundation of the elementary school. With such a definition of the term, it should be obvious to the Right too that it is almost nonsense to define high school as a single school. We have a high school where we're going to go as far as possible, it's important to emphasize, but it's not going to be a high school for that reason. So a little bit in the end about grades. What's the disadvantage of grades, and what's wrong with individual grades, is that we get a wrong focus on parts of the curriculum, we get a ranking of students and a ranking of schools, where the competitive parameters are average characters. We don't want to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e605	The primary goal of the school shall be to develop the student's abilities and be a place where the student thrives and sees himself and what he or she represents, as important. We have to be open to research and experimentation – we shouldn't guess, but we need to know what gives good results in school. In this context, I would like to mention what I experienced myself at the small school where I have worked for many years and also had students. We had three secondary schools in the municipality. Our school was the only one that gave the classes the opportunity for one day's work, ergo the students at our school received much less theoretical instruction than the students at the other two schools, which were larger schools in the municipality. When we got to the exam, which school had the best theory result? That's right, it was our school! So it's not always that a high number of theory hours gives the best theoretical result. I want us to get this opportunity back again. The students at school want to be seen first and foremost, they're not different from us adults there, and I see it that grades can also be a way to see the students. It may indicate their relative position at an early stage and may indicate their relative position to others. It can be stimulating. Characters may help to give self-confidence to students who feel they are falling through in the classroom. I have even seen the stars in the eyes of the student who felt like a loser, but opened the character book and then top character in e.g. formalising or exercising in the body. I am pleased that the majority believe that all schools should define their educational educational policy platform within the framework of which laws, curricula and political decisions allow. This I see gives great room for local customization. It is important to use manageable and simple reporting systems and procedures to minimise bureaucracy. I have met teachers who have said, "I lift the plans and started teaching." I don't ignore that I've done the same thing myself. As I see it, it's more important with thorough reports than far too detailed plans. We don't have to invent the powder many times. Something's happening in Norwegian school. We've got a lot of new, good teachings. Social science books have been criticised. I've just taught social education myself, and I thought it was amazingly interesting books – the students seemed the same. We have a complex reality, and the conditions in school are neither equal nor static. We have to recognize the right to inequalities, inequalities are enriching. We're not going to have a single school as one-rights, but a single school that accepts, respects and develops diversity. We also need to see all the actors we have received at school as a resource – organisations provide education, jobs are open. Finally, I would like to mention that when I was going to teach about electricity, we did not take the turbines after the book, so we contacted Statkraft and visited them.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e622	The representative Rikvam said to Mr. Squad city with reference to previous line changes, the way in which students are distributed in secondary school in Oslo, is a bad way. Now a rather recent study shows that there is an overwhelming majority of SV's voters in Oslo who agree with the way the new city council does this. There is, in fact, a very clear majority in all lots, except for RV, but the statistical basis is so narrow that the percentage is risky. It can be thought that it is simply because most of the SV's voters, too, have a quite natural perception that the school is for the users, not that the users are for the school. It may not be more unreasonable that you can choose freely between schools than that the Stortinget has just decided that you can also choose freely between hospitals. It also seems to me that the representative Rikvam came out a little skeptical in his answer when it was my reference to Alfred Oftedal Telhaug. That's why I'm going to quote a little bit more than I did instead. In the chronicle in the daily newspaper on Saturday, Telhaug says the following: ‘There is nothing in all our research findings or the lack of findings that indicates that money spent on framework factors makes the school better. Whether the school year is long or short doesn't matter. Whether the classes are small or large does not matter either. Whether or not an application of information technology is made, the results will be the same.’ So it's not right to interpret Telhaug there as Reikvam did, that he really argues for the crucial importance of the framework factors anyway. So a little note to the representative Norvoll, who complained about the secret of repetition. That's the secret of all pedagogics, and I think the representative Norvoll has learned quite well in that way. I've heard his post at least five times earlier just in this six-month period, so he's on his way. If I perceived the new and epoch-making in the Workers' Party's position in contrast to the Right, it would be like wanting more adults in school; it's obvious – in addition, you're as much against private schools as you've always been; it's also alarming. Let me make a little heart attack when it comes to the Workers' Party and the SV's rather drastic argument against private schools. As Tomas Norvoll put it, the single school's blessing is to learn tolerance. So you have to force people to learn tolerance. Because I understand both Norvoll, and the comment from the Workers' Party and SV that it is not as the committee leader said earlier in today's debate, that the unit school should be so good that it can compete on the same footing. Then we're 100 pst. Any. But you actually want to use active measures to remove the parental right where it could be thought to degrade the single school, as you say. And there is no attempt at all to clarify who is going to assess the deterioration, and what the deterioration might be.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e640	I will again address this with the local assessment. It shall be carried out locally and by local forces according to the notification and according to majority observations. Teachers shall be assessed by ‘critical friends’. The school should probably be assessed by the school owner, which is the municipality. Then I encounter a problem, and I think the government council will meet it, too, if he thinks about it. I have a small question for him that I can get an answer to at a later time. The question is, how should the Council of State ever have such a small opportunity to make sure that these local assessment bodies perceive quality uniformly? We have a long, weakly populated and poor country. A lot of strange things can happen here when there is no kind of national governance with the concept of quality. No matter how we turn this around and turn it around, I think there is consensus in this room that as long as we have a single school – and it's probably longer in Norway than in Sweden, where it's already in the process of completely disintegrating – the single school must provide quality, because it's as good as the only offer our children have. This becomes difficult for me, because in the message we have received here, we have described a day-to-day that cannot be compared to clearly comparable things. There are no comparisons that make it completely impossible to describe, for example: a common everyday life for the higher education sector. This deficiency also makes it absolutely impossible to ensure a fully equivalent offer. I believe this is a problem, and we have not got a clear solution to that. Does the Council really believe that private schools should be assessed in this seemingly planless way? Or is the representative Norvoll right when he says that the supervision of private schools is ‘too random’ and has to be systematised? If this is a repetition of the Council of State, isn't this what I see as an external independent assessment of private schools? And doesn't that make for obvious discrimination in relation to public school?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e649	In the middle of my work in the agricultural office, I heard two articles that made me feel I had to go here. One was from Right Inge Wage, and the other was from the Workers' Party Einar Olav Skogholt. After all, the salary kept an article until now that did not make the matter any better. Money isn't enough to get quality, says pay, and refers to a very learned man named Telhaug, who also claims that neither how many students there are in the class, how long they go to school, nor at all what they do there, does it seem like, affect the quality. What works, I didn't quite get along with myself, but I see payroll posts as an excuse to legitimize Right old-fashioned and greedy school policy. He points to the teacher as the most important thing, and that's right. But what does a modern enterprise that wants to bet on the future and not on the past? Is it investing in yesterday's technology and ensuring that staff receive minimum training, minimum opportunities to develop and communicate to others to which they are going to relate, and to the market to which they are going to serve? No, a modern business behaves the opposite! But now it's actually starting to get so that you'll soon have to start a private school to do something exciting and cross-border in Norwegian school, because school policy is so greedy that there's no room for it. I have been to schools that have had NOK 23 per year. students in the year to travel on excursions. What in the world is there going to be some kind of insight into society of something like that! In addition, when the classes are going to be as large as possible and there are going to be as many grades and pugs as possible, this is going to be yesterday's school and not future school we're doing. In addition, when the private school of the Church of God with the blessing of the State and of the Rewards is provided for and in addition to the provision of the public school, there is reason to call for warning! This isn't hysteria. This is serious, because it is about the future of Norway. It's about society, and it's also about a lot of individual lives. So to Einar Olav Skogholt's articles. He was talking about Kongswinger. It's a municipality I know well, because I live there. There's the school that tough. Yeah, it's got it! But hasn't the Workers' Party understood this before? This is about frames. Now I see that the Labour Party is trying to say that they are going to increase the framework of the local government sector, and that's good. Keep it going! But still there's pussiness in relation to the needs that exist, if we're going to do something about the school. I see that the Labour Party in the local economy has still not facilitated the requirement for municipalities, so that they have to cut off children and young people in order to release funds for the care of the elderly. Still, they stick to those requirements. Then we don't get any better school, no matter what Skogholt says from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e660	Despite the occasional impressions of this debate, I think there is reason to stress that the public school in Norway has a strong position. But there are many who demand school and are dissatisfied with the pages of the school. We're actually going to see that as a good thing, and this represents a certainty that the school won't be able to stand up. In the view of the Left, the links of primary schools with municipalities and secondary schools with county municipalities are important, and it is important that local authorities and county councils take responsibility for the schools. To ensure that local authorities take adequate responsibility, it is important that municipalities have room for action, and this will be contrary to too strong government control of the schools. The fact that municipalities have room for action is necessary in order for local authorities to become more involved in the development of the local school. It's municipal elections for the autumn. There might be some reason why the many suggestions that have been included in the setting of the different batches. The left is committed to strengthening the school's position in the municipalities and has adopted a school policy manifesto that underlines the local authorities' responsibility for prioritising the school stronger than today. I would assume that it is actually a more important contribution to strengthening the school than to promoting a number of suggestions in the position that we are dealing with today. It is our belief that a stronger commitment to the school by the municipalities will further develop and strengthen the public school. We are very pleased that the Workers' Party is involved in this in today's setting and hope that they will also be willing to accept that this may lead to some differences, and perhaps a little more differences than today, but it remains to be seen. The working party is also concerned with the relationship with private schools. According to the left's opinion, the Working Party here sees ghosts at daylight. The best way to defend the public school is to give it stronger local anchoring and further develop the public school. The representative Norvoll was pleased that the Council of State Lilletun wanted to follow up the private schools better, and he perceived it as a concession on the part of the Council of State. Yes, the government we have now has been sitting for a while. But when you talk about following up better than before in a time perspective, it's probably the closest thing to expect is that it's a stronger follow-up than what former workers' party governments stood for, the government council first thought about. A strengthened public school, strongly linked to each municipality and community, with room for reasonable inequalities, is, in our view, the best basis for reducing the desire for private schools. And if there were one or two more private schools, the public school would be good at it!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e673	It is interesting to hear legislators refer and explain recently adopted laws. There was an interesting variant of the representative from Reikvam. As I have understood the Training Act – at least what it says – students should have the right to go to the nearest school. There's nothing to say that they have to be placed primarily there. This is a difference of essence. What was also interesting was that Reikvam confirmed that students from the east of Oslo should be removed from the schools in the west of Oslo, for there they do not belong. Reikvam thus wants to continue his goal from his time as head of the county school board in Akershus, where students among others. from the municipality of Ski, based on geographical circumstances, was forced to go to two different schools — one with many parallels and a good offer, even within the linguistic disciplines, another with one and a half parallels without the possibility to provide a combination of skills that gives a sinking point. In fact, I think the students could switch schools in relation to VK I in order to get the sinking points, because then they could throw out one student from the other school, and that student might be allowed to go to this school with a half and a half parallel. But what worries most about the Progress Party is that the Socialist Left Party wants to prevent students from the same geographic areas from going to a common school, if they want this. I thought that the starting point of the Socialist Left Party was integration and interaction, and not as it stands: segregation and isolation!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e682	With a school that will last 13 years for most, it is clear, as both the government parties, SV and the Workers' Party have pointed out in the attitude, that the unit-school thinking is also very much on the way. Most will be trained for 13 years and training needs to be adapted to the abilities and assumptions of the students. I am otherwise glad that the Council of State has confirmed that he will go into the problem of what we see in some municipalities, where one can no longer actually maintain the offers, among other things. for special education. If the single school is to be ensured, local self-government cannot always be a general objective. It is also included in the setting. The allocation of appropriations may be a flexible and effective instrument, but it may also be the responsibility of the SV to set minimum standards. The important thing is now that we move on in that discussion to be willing to do something. It was otherwise very positive that the Right gives the impression that they will support the Workers' Party and SV to establish a trade union council for indoor climate. This means that there will be a majority for a council that can support municipalities in their efforts to improve the indoor climate. And there may be many smaller measures that can be positive and as important as the replacement of large air-conditioning systems. From the positioning and debate on the single school, it is clear that we have the same emphasis as before, where the Progress Party and the Right fortunately are in minority. The challenge for the Government will come in the budgets when the Government is to follow up what is currently in the majority position. In the end, the school needs a quality boost to become even more attractive, so attractive that most parents see it as completely uninteresting to provide some private school arrangements. However, if the private arrangement that is being established is to frighten the community school, and if both the local government and the state's envoys in the counties believe that it is wrong, it should be discussed whether it is still right to grant subsidies to each private school. But this will give Stortinget the opportunity to discuss on the basis of a Document No. 8 proposals made.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e697	After hearing the representative's salary, one would believe that the government has not included anything other than a local assessment in the paper. Of course, this is not correct, and I allow myself to refer to the communication, where concrete measures under State control are presented in the following seven main points: competence development actions related to both secondary education and an action plan relating to primary school external participation in local assessment work state reporting and information system assessment of the learning outcomes of rivers and apprentice national electronic resource bank and meeting placesystematic area review training policy development message to the Stortinget, so that we regularly hear about the development work taking place in School-Norway; In addition, the Government is committed to coordinating and strengthening State efforts by bringing together all the tasks of the National Educational Centre and the Secretariat of the Exam, which we call the Development Centre. It is important that teacher plans, teaching materials and examinations/examinations are viewed in a coherent and consistent way and together contribute to quality assurance and quality development. I believe that this can best be ensured by the fact that these institutions become one, and so now there is a majority for this in the Stortinget. The learning outcomes of pupils and apprentices, as documented by test and examination responses, provide not only a basis for assessment with and without character but also for feedback at system level such as school assessment and national assessment. This is important information for the further development of the school. So a little bit more about the characters and the representative Løvik that refers to the so-called crackling attitude of the centre parties here in relation to our programs. I then have to ask whether the Right has listened to the student organisations who, in consultation with the Committee, have said that their pupil council/students meeting has said that they are in favour of removing common grades as an assessment form. The centre party can live well with the government having invited to experiment at the youth stage without normal grades. Of course, evaluation and evaluation should be carried out nevertheless, but in a different way, such as: for process assessment and student participation. Quality is much more than the number of 5's and 6's. I think it is necessary to repeat the general curriculum and look at what the Stortinget has actually decided about the school's goals for our children and young people. An integrated learning system is outlined that cannot be measured by characters alone, in terms of the development of the whole human being.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e739	No pay has had the word twice, and gets the word to a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e742	The representative, Andersen, said that soon you have to start a private school in order to get something new in Norwegian school, and you can say good luck with that. But I think the representative will be disappointed if she thinks she's getting a better resource situation that way. Under the law you can cover 85 pst. the operating costs, and none of the investment costs are covered. So if that's the resource situation that's going to be decisive, I don't think it would be the right way to go. Let me also point out that the case representative Andersen referred to from Nordland, that it is to put the matter on his head to present it as if it were the private school that caused the branch school to disappear. The decision to close the primary school was – as far as I know – done before, on the initiative of the then rapporteur from the Labour Party. The two things have little to do with each other in that context. And then finally, the point of Telhaug, and also my point, is that what interests students in terms of benefits from school is not how many dollars are spent on their heads, but what they carry inside their heads when they leave school.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e751	The representative, Dørum, is talking about waxiness in the school. The government has submitted proposals for an experiment in relation to an increase in the maturity of more than 15 elephants, and it has been concluded. It's important to try out that piece there. A few words from me also about this with ratings. What is the difference between the Government's position and the Workers' Party and the SV's position is that we say it would be exciting to try out other forms of assessment. So I've got a connection from our national meeting to do it from the program line that's there. No shakes the representative Løvik on the head, but unlike the representative Løvik, I was there and was the one who asked for a connection to understand the programme item like this. I actually think I know better than the representative Løvik. I don't understand this anxiety. So it's just to make some attempts in public schools that are similar to what happens in the Steinerskulen for the day. If there's an exciting way to do it, if there's something that can give a good result, then it has to be submitted to the respective parties at the national meeting if we're going to go further. We don't have any authority to do this today, but of course we have authority to carry out these attempts. Representatives from other countries Right has always told the Council of State that one should be liberal when it comes to the practice of test paragraphs that we have now received in the Training Act. Yes, the council has thought so, he has also intended to allow trials that Right seems quite reasonable, but as I think is completely meaningless. But a liberal practice must mean that one also accepts something you don't like initially. And I'm amazed at the nitite marching up to the pulpit today to talk about this issue, which is actually an exciting attempt, and if parents, teachers, elephants and local authorities want to make that attempt locally – we don't require anyone to do it – yes, they're allowed to do it. So to this one says we're not doing anything with the quality. What do we have to stick to? Goals in curricula, a broad view of knowledge. There is a central premise in the message, as the representative Tingelstad just said. We're talking more broadly than ever in any document to the Stortinget which is a good quality criterion, and they're going to be put into the electronic resource bank. We're referring to a method to do this. Then we have a challenge with a view to clarifying how the development secretariat should work – yes, we should. I recognize that we're not in the goal, but I actually mean we're going a step further. I am pleased that the committee has so much agreed to this, and I take with me the nuances and deepenings that the committee has also done. And I actually thought the comments from the Right were more open and exciting than what has been expressed in the debate here today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e768	Rolf Rikvam has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e771	That's not the number of dollars a user on a student, which is crucial, says pay again, and then he's quoting Telhaug. The main message refers to two studies, and in these two studies we cannot demonstrate a link between resource input and what students have acquired from reading skills and mathematical skills. I accept that, but besides that, these studies don't say anything at all. They don't say anything about what students have acquired from what they were really going to acquire from a broader knowledge view, other than that they have acquired the ability to read and these concrete mathematical skills. With our knowledge view, our broader knowledge view, that kind of research is a little bit interesting. And if we continue with the logic of Inge Wage, this debate has been wasted in many ways, because it doesn't matter how far the school year is, it doesn't matter how much the resource effort is, it doesn't matter how many students there are in the class – for the students' ability to acquire knowledge. Inge Wohnning knows it's uninteresting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e778	For this with characters. It was not up to me to judge when it pertains to the interpretation of the Christian People's Party's own writings, it causes the council to make its own partitions. But to say it a little conciliatory at the end of the debate: as we have seen of the setting and heard today, this is the most liberal practice I have ever experienced with regard to a party program. What got me to take the floor was the representative Karin Andersen, who claimed that Right was old-fashioned and greedy in school policy, and it was almost unlikely to right. She also asked if it is such that we have to start a private school in order to do something new and exciting, and there she might have a point. But why is that so? That question I would like to put back. The right has repeatedly pointed out that we have the most centralized and detailed school in the world, or at least of the western countries. And what we want from the Right's side is just to set the public school a lot freer when it comes to method, we want a more exciting school, we want every single principal, school and teacher to design the public school for each individual student. We want different schools, and we need to get equivalent schools for different elephants. When it comes to money, it is correct, as the representative already pointed out to the representative Karin Andersen, that the private spheres are only covered by 85 pst. of the operating costs and none of the investment costs. And then there's one thing to ask: what are the private schools capable of, which the public schools are unable to do, which makes the situation description by Karin Andersen, who just came along, correct? It would be a little interesting to know more about it. When it comes to greed, the Council of State Lilletun has recently confirmed in a debate what we in the Right know, and what the others are now expecting to admit, that after the alternative balanced budgets presented in the autumn of 1998, it was actually the right of the larger parties that would spend the most money on school. It came out that we had real priorities, because we're willing to set the school not only far ahead, but above and beyond many other things that others will have solved in the public sector. Right will bet on the school, we'd like to discuss the school with SV. And we can recall – if it's legal – the representative Karin Andersen not only having the education debates in the Stortinge as she reads about the agricultural decision, as she herself said, but following the debates all the way. Then maybe we could have a debate that went more to reality than to myths.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e791	The representative Grete Knudsen said that it should be discussed whether it is right to grant grants to each private school. This I thought was tremendously strong. What got me to speak was not, because the representative Knudsen has actually had this opinion for a long time and shown it in his budgetary work, both in numbers and in comments, but she made me remember something that the Vice-Chairman of the Teacher Team said in ‘To debate’. That's where the Vice-Chairman actually got to say that it's not possible to spend society's public money on private schools. These are opinions which, in my opinion, are rooted in so important principles of democracy and community, that it is well worth noting, because I assume that the Vice-Chair of the Teacher Team has a certain teaching competence. The public money of society is probably the resources of the social partners, and our children, who are entitled to schooling, are, of course, intelligent participants in a society, regardless of whether they participate in private schemes or public schemes. And now we should stop making obvious differences all because of the choice the parents make on behalf of their children. We have to start focusing on what's important, and that's the basic knowledge that each child gets. We've seen for a long time that too many children go through public school and get out almost as badly rusted as they were when they came in – this for various reasons, it can be disability, there may be a lack of organized education, there may be terrible many reasons for this, but we actually break our own great honors in laws that say that everyone should get the same right, when we absolutely don't give it. When we can't even recognize that society's money is our property, each one of us, also child's to meet their knowledge needs in a school that's important to them, then it's time to say that maybe we should have had fifty-fifty with private schools of all kinds and public schools of various kinds.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e800	I hope that the participants in this debate are a little more concerned that you can actually get involved than you have big work tasks that cannot be reconciled with sitting in the Chamber during all the debates. But that's the working situation now, and I'm not going to cross it out. I've been in the school debate for a lot of years, and I'm very concerned about it. I have a totally opposite starting point to what Ursula Evje has, namely that from the SVs and my side the school is the most societal element we have, and therefore it is important that it is common. There's going to be everyone, and there we're going to learn to live together, from different social environments and with different starting points, where we're both going to understand each other and learn to live together, and we're going to realize that we're in a society and not just individuals. It's the most important thing at school. This is why the development towards several private schools that have a narrower device on them is dangerous, especially those who are concerned with isolating themselves with their own performances. That's why it's important that we give space, resources, trust and freedom to the public school. I don't know how the representative from the Right has figured this out and figured out that they're the most school-friendly party, because they're suddenly spending the most money on it. Instead, the salary was up and said that money was not important. But I don't know if you've taken the municipal economy into account. I don't think so. For the municipal economy has been poor in recent years. I just want to remind you that for 1998 there was a deficit of NOK 5 billion – in 1999 things get worse. In addition, an older package has been created which is such that you are forced to cut the appropriations for children and young people and at school to get that money out, and I do not know any local government representative who is able to say that unfortunately we are not going to build hospitals for these old people, because we are going to spend the money in school. They can't do it, so the school loses. It's sad. The positive thing about the public debate about what the Right stands for is that they want to raise a school debate, and the negative thing is that they are asking for more of what we don't need anymore in the future, namely fact training, and less of what we need more, that is, learning to be socially good and to be able to acquire knowledge – not to raise it up again. Knowledge is very rapid. So what SV wants is a multiplicity, modern and exciting school, and not a poor, boring and boisterous doggy school that is characterized by control. Because that's not what we need anymore, neither the students nor the teachers. On the contrary, we need trust, framework and resources that enable us to process the most important resource we have in this country, which is most important for the future, namely children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e811	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3871]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e825	Lars Ødegård was one of the last days in May alternate from Akershus here in the hall. As far as I know, he's the first staging representative to use a wheelchair, and he wrote the following to Storting's presidency: «As a meeting representative, I have learned today that the Stortinget is not intended to be used by all people in our society. I record that Stortinget's construction and facilities prevent me from participating in Stortinget's work in an ordinary way, i.e. in an equivalent and equivalent manner to the other representatives.’;» And then it says, ‘Let me first underline the fact that the best efforts have been made to enable me to participate in my work as a representative in the best possible way. My point, on the other hand, is linked to another and equally obvious fact, namely that wheelchair users are not treated in the same way as elected representatives.About 350,000 people in Norway are people with reduced mobility, and almost 50,000 of us are wheelchair users. So we're not talking about a marginal group.In the future, it should be seen as completely unacceptable to allow such large groups of the Norwegian people to be prevented from participating in a democratically elected act in an equivalent and equal way.The wheelchair users are excluded from entering the Storting via the main entrance, but are referred to the back door or via the basement. As a wheelchair user, I also feel excluded from sitting in the place that I would normally use. Worse still, I feel excluded from having the same opportunity as my co-representatives to keep my posts from Storting's pulpit, but I'm advised to sit down on the floor with the President's back. So this is about equality and equality, as this has been clearly expressed on several occasions in many communications and decisions of the Storing and its organs. I also dare to remind you that almost 60% of all public buildings, schools, service offices and cultural facilities that should be open to everyone are not. In the case of disabled persons, the physical barriers created in buildings, installations and means of transport have made effective stoppages which, in their turn, distinguish very many from participating in society in line with all other free citizens.I therefore strongly urge the Presidency of the United Kingdom to take urgent action to bring the building and facilities of the United Kingdom into such a state as is stated in the cross-political objectives, and therefore also in accordance with the requirements of the Building Act on full accessibility for persons with reduced mobility and orientation. In the light of these comments, Lars Ødegård asked the President a question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e855	A number of measures have been implemented in recent years in the building of Storting in order to make them more accessible and user-friendly to people with reduced mobility and orientation. This applies both to users of the public gallery, to access through the entrances of Storting and to being able to move around, in and between the buildings. However, the Presidency is also of the opinion that much still can and should be done. This has been addressed with the Storting Administration with a view to finding, as far as possible, good solutions in cooperation with PRM organisations. With regard to the part of Lars Ødegård’s question, which relates in particular to the working conditions of PRMs themselves, the Presidency is aware that today there are restrictions that prevent the exercise of the position in a manner that can be said to be fully consistent with that of the other representatives. In a building over 130 years old, you will naturally encounter both practical constraints and antiquarian considerations that make it difficult to achieve this altogether, or to implement solutions that are otherwise desirable. The Presidency attaches crucial importance to the organisation of working conditions in such a way that any meeting representative is able to exercise all the rights and obligations arising from the position of elected representatives, both in the Chamber and outside. However, the existing framework conditions would hardly be possible to find solutions which, in any situation, are completely identical to those applicable to the other representatives. However, the Presidency will continue to work to remove unnecessary constraints and to organise practical solutions to ensure that the working conditions are seen as equivalent for all representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e881	I thank the President for his answer. It was kept in the street that we had hoped, and we thought – that we are now looking for practical solutions that allow representatives and state councils to do their job in this room to have an opportunity to do this in line with everyone else. It is not a desire to intervene, either in the staging room, in the laying room or in other parts of the Stortinget, which is to destroy the impression and appearance of this building, but to find practical, good solutions that take care of this as pointed out by Lars Ødegård.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e888	The debate on substance is closed. So 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e899	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e906	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Øyvind Korsberg, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 2 and 3, from Hallgeir H. Langeland on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government is asking the Government to set up a tempo selection to assess the rates of exploration, expansion and production on a Norwegian base, taking into account both environmental challenges and stable employment.’ Proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to inform the Government about improvements in the safety and liability of helicopter traffic on a Norwegian base in an appropriate manner by the end of October 1999.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e932	The proposal of the Progress Party and the Right reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to open group applications in the Norwegian Sea.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e958	In the course of the debate, Mr Korsberg put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to take into account that BEES are initially not to participate in the 16th concession round.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e1040	During the debate, 21 proposals were put forward. It's: proposal No 1-3, by Grete Knudsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, no. 4-7, by Grete Knudsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, 8-11, from Inge Wohnung on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 12-16, by Mr Ursula Evje, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 17, by Inge Wohnung, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 18-20, by Rolf Reikvam, on behalf of Socialist Left-wing proposal No. 21, from Petter Løvik on behalf of the Right This will give rise to brief explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e1067	We will ask the Labour Party to convert proposal No. 6, which is about increasing the number of adult youth workers, as a trial, to a transmission proposal, as it coincides with what is stated in the Communication.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e1072	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Right supports minority proposal No. 1, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, and I recommend the Right-wing Representatives to vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e1077	As regards proposal No: 6, from the Workers' Party, which the government parties ask if we want to convert into a transmission proposal, we will, on the basis of what the Council of State has clarified, even though the two proposals are not identical, nevertheless comply with the proposal of the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e1082	The President then first refers to proposal No. 6, which has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘The Government is advised to facilitate pilot projects to increase the number of adult youth workers.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without any rebuttal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. With regard to the order of voting, the President proposes that the proposals of the Socialist Left should be voted on first, then on the proposals of the Right, then on the proposals of the Progressive Party, then on the proposals of the Progressive Party and the Right, then on the proposals of the Labour Party, on the proposals of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, and finally on the vote. – There seems to be agreement on that order. Proposals Nos. 18-20, from the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a plan to wind up the scheme using grades as an assessment form at primary school level.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit proposals for minimum hourly resources for each grade of primary school in the context of the State budget for the year 2000. The resource shall be calculated as a basic resource for each class equal to the ordinary teaching yardstick of the class laid down in the curriculum and in circulars from the ministry, and an additional resource calculated on the basis of the number of pupils in the class. The provision for minimum hours is included in the Training Act.» Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals for a change to the Training Act so that there is no possibility of requiring self-payment for equipment and activities necessary for the realization of the curricula.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e1113	Proposal No. 17, from the Right, is taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to refer the matter to the Stortinget for the reorganization of primary education, with a view to gradually increasing the freedom of choice and the possibility of professional immersion.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e1127	Proposal No. 21, from the right, is taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Grand Board of Directors shall ensure that there is still an assessment of grades at the youth level and that, therefore, no testing of grades without rating is started.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e1141	Proposals Nos. 12-16, from the Party of Advancement, is taken up for voting. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for a school- and enterprise-based evaluation. The evaluation shall ensure the quality assurance of the individual school and apprenticeship in terms of training full-time professionals.’;» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the establishment of an independent body of complaint for the education sector, with its mandate, organisation and management function.’;» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals based on self-governed public schools where, with majority users, the Governing Board has an independent evaluation responsibility.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for electronic system solutions to ensure effective reporting of standardised data. Requirements specifications are drawn up for programmes and transmission units.» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out an investigation into the governance and responsibilities of the Development Secretariat based, inter alia, on the experience of the National Educational Centre after its reorganisation.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e1177	Proposals Nos. 8-11, from the Advancement Party and the Right, to voting. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to appoint a selection to carry out a broad assessment of training for children, young people and adults with special needs, in the light of developments following the integration of the Special School Act in 1975.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a separate case to the Stortinget for the establishment of an independent school supervision with proposals for organisation and mandate.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to follow up the proposal for compulsory diagnostic examinations in primary school with the establishment of minimum professional standards in reading, writing and billing at all stages of the class. If a student does not meet the required standard, parents shall be notified and the student offered additional education.’;» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to introduce a system of standardised tests in the subjects of Norwegian, mathematics, natural sciences and English in the middle and early stages of primary school. A limited sample of schools/classes is drawn each year.’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e1208	Proposals Nos. 4, 5 and 7, from the Workers' Party, is taken up for voting. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to intensify the trials of freedom of character at primary school.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to review and promote proceedings on the use of self-payment in school.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to put in place a lending scheme for school books in secondary school and to set up an escalating plan for the free lending of school books in secondary school.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e1234	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a National Trade Council for Indoor Climate and Learning Environment to assist the Ministry in the guidance of municipalities and user groups of schools and kindergartens.’ The right has notified that they support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e1250	Proposals Nos. 2 and 3, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to review all existing student participation schemes and to promote legislative proposals with a view to strengthening student participation.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide an overview of the costs of upgrading public school buildings in order to meet the requirements of the Regulation on environmental health protection in kindergartens and schools launched on 1 January 1996. The summary must include a plan on how to comply with the requirements and the State funding contribution in question.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14-2.ana.ud578e1297	There is no voting theme in case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
