ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e27	From the Workers' Group there is an application for sickness leave from the representative of Haakon Blankenborg as from Thursday 18 February and until further notice. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Vara representative, Gry Larsen, is proposed to meet during the leave period. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The alternate who is in the presence of Torstein Rudihagen today becomes the alternate of Haakon Blankenborg, while Gry Larsen becomes the alternate of Torstein Rudihagen. Gry Larsen is proposed to be elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Torstein Rudihagen. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e44	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e49	I propose Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and Asmund Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e54	Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and Asmund Kristoffersen are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and Asmund Kristoffersen are unanimously elected as presidents of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e73	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Gudmund Restad State Council Day Jostein Fjærvoll State Council Marit Arnstad State Council Hilde Frafjord Johnson The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the notified persons, would like to ask themselves the main questions asked to be raised. We will then start with the first main questions, from the representative Hill-Marta Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e93	My question goes to Minister of Finance Restad. The central statistical agency believes that unemployment will increase this year, the Bank of Norway notes increasing unemployment, and the Directorate of Labour has long said the same thing. Yesterday, the OECD presented its country report on Norway and announced increasing unemployment. We meet daily with numbers of lay-downs in the yard industry and other oil-related activities. State Secretary Skreisestad held yesterday to the Government's estimate of no increase in unemployment this year. My question is: does the Minister of Finance Restad and the Government, as the only instance, continue to insist that unemployment will not increase in 1999, or is the Government now willing to change its forecasts?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e104	Nearly five months ago, the Government of the national budget presented its assessments of the development of employment and unemployment in 1999. At the time, there was considerable uncertainty about the development of the world economy following major turbulence, among others. a. in Asia and Russia. Oil prices were low – almost halved over a year. In such a situation, estimates and forecasts need to be made for, inter alia: a. Employment and unemployment are filled with considerable uncertainty, as the Government also clearly stated in the national budget. With reference to that uncertainty, the Government estimated an average unemployment rate of 3,3 pst for 1998. and for 1999 at 3.2 pst. Now it turns out that average leave came down to 3.2 pst. already in 1998, because we had a significantly lower unemployment rate than foreseen at the end of the year. Many have predicted, as Hill-Marta Solberg now pointed to, greatly increasing unemployment already in the new year, among others. the Directorate of Labour has said that already in January/February there will be a higher level of unemployment than one year ago. But this has not enabled. Until this year, the registered unemployment rate has been between 7 000 and 8 000 lower than at the corresponding time in 1998. The latest unemployment figures, published today, show that there are now 61,900 unemployed, 2.7 pst. of the labour force, which is 6,900 fewer unemployed than one year ago. However, there is still a high degree of uncertainty, and there is therefore no need to ignore the fact that there can be an increase in unemployment throughout the year. In particular, developments in oil-related business are worrying, and the explanation here, of course, is primarily the low oil prices that we have now had over a long period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e113	I thank you for the answer, but I see it then that the Minister of Finance and the Government are not willing today to say that they want to adjust their forecasts – they are sticking to their forecasts, but stressing the uncertainty. The concern of the Labour Party is that the Government overlooks the danger that most – not to say all – other bodies point to: the danger of increasing unemployment. Very few have suggested increasing unemployment in January/February, but the state budget we have adopted is valid for the whole year, and our concern is that the government is coming back, as it did when it came to the yard support, when it came to the Storting two months too late and suggested an increase in it. My question to the Minister of Finance is: Is not the Minister of Finance concerned that the Government can also come back in this matter and can come too late with its measures to meet increasing unemployment towards the end of the year? In particular, this effort is addressed through the labour market parliaments.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e122	As I said in my first answer, there's still a lot of uncertainty. But the preliminary statistical data do not show that we have the increase in unemployment that many have predicted should already occur. I had in mind in my previous answer that we have uncertainties in oil-related industries, largely explained by the low oil prices. It must therefore be possible to assume that there will be greater leave there than we foreseen in the national budget. For this reason, in preparation for any action, the Government has now initiated a meeting with the industry, and such a meeting will take place quite promptly — if possible, it will take place by the next week. And then I remember what Hill-Marta Solberg also now said, that we have already taken action on the yard industry – the yard support increased from 7 to 9 pst. In my view, however, the most important thing to avoid increased unemployment is to have a particularly moderate wage settlement, preferably a zero settlement, and to bring interest rates down to European level during the year in accordance with the national budget assumptions. But the government follows developments closely.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e129	There will be follow-up questions – Børge Brende.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e132	Once again, the oil price drop has made the vulnerability of the Norwegian economy visible and made it clear the need for continued growth in the competitive sector in order to prevent increasing unemployment. However, what is the Government’s strategy to prevent this is a major problem to address: growth opportunities in the future in Norway are mainly linked to the workshop and technology industries. 11.4 pst. of our exports are linked to this area, while we see that in Sweden about 50 pst. in the technology and engineering industries. The OECD produced a report yesterday, which said that there is a lot to be done to defend the high standard of living in Norway. It was recommended that subsidies should start to be cut in order to secure jobs, and the report also stated that the Norwegian welfare system was over-ripe and not cost-effective. What strategy does the Government have to meet this, except to be seated?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e139	As I now said in my follow-up response to Hill-Marta Solberg, the Government's foremost strategy is to ensure that we get interest rates down to European level during the year, as provided for in the national budget. It will be the best contribution to the fight against high levels of unemployment. Whether you succeed depends on several factors, including: the oil prices, which Børge Burnde was also involved. They are a handicap and a problem in bringing interest rates down to the European level as quickly as we hope. Otherwise, I informed you about the meeting that is now scheduled – i.e.. It's not planned, we haven't found the time yet. However, a meeting with the oil industry will probably be held in the coming weeks to hear their views and their issues, in order to prepare for possible action. The government will then, if necessary, come back to the Storting with it, for example. in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e147	New follow-up question - Trond Giske.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e150	I note that the agreement of the central government with the Right and the Advance Party led to a number of measures and decisions that could reduce employment. It was proposed and adopted a business cycle fee, decided to cut the yard support, cut the municipal economy, cut the hospital development rate, cut the unemployment measures, and removed the youth guarantee. The government, together with the Right Party and the Advance Party, has now turned in a few of these cases: in the short-term fee and in the case of the yard support. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State now also take the initiative to turn around the other issues that reduce employment and may increase unemployment in the agreement with the Right and the Advance Party – that is, the municipal economy, that is, the level of action, that is, to help those who need it the most in the job queue – and to expand the nursing homes at the pace it was set up in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e157	There was a broad consensus in the Stortinget last autumn that there was a need for a tight budget, and the Labour Party also agreed. The Labour Party even criticised the Government and government parties, the Right Party and the Advance Party for not finally being as strict as it should have been. And if you were to spend more money, as the questioner now recommends, the budget would be less tight, and the possibilities of creating confidence in the Norwegian economy and getting interest rates down again would be reduced accordingly. So my answer is still the same: the main thing about the budget was to facilitate a reduction in interest rates down to the European level in 1999, and we still have hopes of doing so. It will be the best contribution to preventing increased unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e162	New follow-up question - Øystein Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e165	This question has been raised a number of times with the Minister of Finance, and I find it strange that he still seems to trivialise the issue of increasing unemployment. And Skreisestad said yesterday that he doesn't believe in the forecasts now presented by the OECD, which are similar to those of all the other qualified people who have expressed their opinion on the question. So he blames the oil price, and points to a moderate wage settlement. Let me then ask you quite specifically about the salary settlement. After all, the large employee organisations have said that this year the settlement will focus on continuing education and training. The government's signals have thus been very vague. Does this mean that Restad in Stortinget’s Question Time is willing to say that the state is willing to go badly in order to achieve a continuing training reform in order to achieve a moderate settlement, and thus, according to Restad’s forecasts, contribute to the non-increase in unemployment? So far, the government's signals have been very unclear at that point, and so far, it's completely different from the government itself that gets blamed for the increased unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e170	I would like to reject the fact that the Government or the undersigned has reduced the possibility of increased leave. On the contrary, on every occasion when this has been raised – and it is true that there have been quite a number of rounds on this since the budget was adopted – I have underlined the uncertainty that is actually present, not least internationally, and there are factors on which the Government has little influence. But what is crucial domestically is primarily wage-fixed, and it has to be moderate. As I said in my first answer, it should be an approximate zero settlement, so that we get back down to a cost level that is in line with our competitors. It is obvious that it is the most important thing to prevent an increase in unemployment. When the OECD report is more pessimistic than what the Government has been, it is because the OECD report is based on other wage development assumptions. While the government has assumed a pay increase of 5 pst. this year, the OECD believes it will be at 6.6 pst. So they don't have the confidence that we have in the social partners that they get a moderate settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e179	Per-Kristian Foss – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e182	I note that the Minister of Finance has no response to the long-term challenges raised by the OECD report, in addition to referring to a meeting with the yard industry scheduled for the next week. But that was not the kind of challenge that the OECD report addressed. On the other hand, I agree with the Minister of Finance when he stresses that, in the short term, a moderate wage settlement is very important. However, the OECD report highlights a different aspect, namely the need for a continued tight fiscal regime. And my question to the Minister of Finance will be: Will he ensure that all the increased expenditure already announced for 1999 will be covered, so that, after the revised budget in our Stortinget, we will be left with a budget that is as tight for the second half of the year as for the first half of the year – which was also a budget in which the Right and Advance Party also contributed?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e189	It is clearly the Government's intention to implement the budget adopted in the autumn, with the rigour in it. Whether we succeed, we have to assess when we get a little bit further out of the year. We should not hide the fact that some unpleasant information has come about increased expenditure, for example. in the case of social security, which is not easily covered within the reserves it holds. But the Government's intention to implement the arrangement as intended is still a fact.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e194	Ranveig Frøiland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e197	We can see so far after the answer from the Minister of Finance that he agreed that it is very uncertain, but the only answer is a meeting that is not yet called for, but intended to hold. It's too bad, I have to admit, when you see all the people who have said about unemployment and how it will increase in the next six months, that one has found no other answer than a meeting with the oil industry. What causes the Government to be so much more optimistic than anyone else — both Norway Bank, which leads to unemployment, the OECD, which it has pointed out, and the Labour Directorate? All of these say that there's going to be an increase in unemployment. Then one has to go in with measures. And that's when we ask: is the government willing to change the forecasts and come in with measures in time so that they can work, and not like with the yard support, which came two months late?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e205	I will reject that the only answer we have is a meeting. This meeting is being taken with a view to getting first-hand information on the challenges facing oil industry in particular, and we will, as I said, come back to the Stortinge, for example. in the revised national budget with proposals for action. But to repeat it for the nth time, it's still my opinion that the most important contribution to averting increased unemployment is that we get interest rates down. And if you were to start firing at a lot of increased public spending now, I don't think interest rates would go down as fast as they would. I don't think it's possible to get both bag and bag. You have to have some ice in your stomach and don't panic because if you see the possibility and the danger of increased leave. Still, it's so that we have a significantly lower leave today than we had just one year ago. The gloomy predictions of a marked increase in unemployment have not been met as early as early as 1999.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e212	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e215	I have the following questions for the Minister of Defence. The appropriations for defence have fallen relatively over the last few years, and the consensus that foreign operations were to be financed in addition to the defence budget does not appear to have been given a majority in the practical implementation. This suggests that we can risk a severe reduction in the structure of defence in the coming years. The Minister of Defence has asked questions about the dimensions of today's management apparatus, and according to today's business yesterday, the Chief of Staff believes that the cuts that have been required to be taken and that can be expected in the future will not be possible. Is the Council of State in agreement with the Chief of Staff of the Defence Command?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e224	Let me first say that last year's defence budget, for the year we've just been through, is of such a magnitude that it's one of the largest in recent times. In the case of foreign operations, which are mentioned, the Government also assumes that the conduct of the long-term message will be carried out from the second half of the year. The agreement with the Right and the Advance Party for the current financial year will be followed up. So to the main question, does the Council agree with the play mentioned in the newspaper yesterday? The Council of State does not agree. The Council of State is set to go through the entire defence, all the different sections of the defense, from the Ministry of Defence via the Defence Command to the different defenses, and to dimension this in relation to each other. It will take time, it will be challenges, but it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e233	I am pleased with the answer given by the Council of State also with regard to the initial part of the question relating to the budgetary agreement with the Right and the Advance Party. However, what is a cross of thought is that the Storting has adopted a savings target also for the top management of the Defense, and it is clearly, in my view, a mismatch between the size of the management and what is to be managed. My question will then be: What initiative will the Council of State take in order for the decision of the Storting to be implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e238	The initiative has already been taken. We are from the Ministry of Defence as the responsible department in the process of reviewing the top management of the defence. It is natural that this happens in close cooperation with the Defence Command. It is also important that we get a right relationship between those who lead, and those who are to be led. That means that we are facing relatively big challenges in the years to come. But what the Council of State cannot confirm today is that I can land on a special percentage in decline, or that special named jobs will be reorganized, but we look at the entire management system in the context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e243	There will be follow-up questions – Grethe Fossli.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e246	Several people blocked their eyes when they read the business of the day yesterday. I want to follow up on Røsjord's questions, because the Council of State said the review would take place in close cooperation with the Defence Command. My question is, what is the dialogue with employees' organisations, and how will the cooperation be? Reorganisation and staff reductions are no simple matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e253	That's absolutely right. This is a challenging matter, and it is a matter that will take a fairly long time. I can only mention that with regard to the reorganisation proposed on the maritime defence side, which is now in Stortinget, it has taken about. three and a half years to get to where you are today. In other words, the challenge is even greater in the area we are now discussing. The relevant employee organisations will be included in the leadership, but in the end it may be necessary to take a summary and a conclusion to be drawn from the political leadership. But before that, those who are reasonably to be heard will be heard.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e258	Björn Hernæs – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e261	I now understood that the Council of State is informed of the thoughts that have been made in the Defence Command. And that's good. It's just the pick of the fact that the Storting has founded a manning reduction on its appropriations. It is well and good that the Council of State is informed, it is also well and good that the employees' organisations will be informed, but my question is: How does the Council of State intend to draw the Storting into this process? As far as I can understand, much of what we have adopted on the rationalization of defence is, precisely depending on the manning reduction that so far, at least in my knowledge, has been the basis for the planning that is taking place.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e267	Of course, the size will get this case presented in its entirety when we get to the point when the Storting will make the necessary decisions. However, what I have to acknowledge and underline is that during the last decade, the goal set for manning in the Defense has not been fully achieved. In other words, we want to look closely at the relationship between the goals we are now setting and the possibilities we have to meet the targets. In this context, of course, I recognize that in relation to what was suggested by Stortingen a few years ago, we are not yet in the finish line. We have not done the reduction in staffing on the operating side, and I must admit today that the objective that was then set was very ambitious.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e272	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e275	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. I would like to follow up on the theme I was on in a previous round of questions. My concern is: how can we conduct an economic policy that allows us to bring the level of interest back down to where it was before this government joined? The Minister of Finance replied very badly to my question as to whether the Government is able to keep a tight fiscal policy year out. It is particularly alarming from a government that has emptied almost the entire stock item and has underlined the need to be particularly careful about additional appropriations in the current year, i.e. in 1999. When the Minister of Finance now informed that new and unexpected expenditures are coming in the area of popular security, there is a very serious warning that the Government does not have the power to keep the tightness of the budget, and therefore cannot promise a decline in interest rates as suggested earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e282	Yeah, it'll be Per-Kristian Foss's guess that the answer was disgusting. But I told you quite clearly that the government's clear intention is to implement the tight budget that we had adopted in the autumn. So I pointed out that we have some challenges that don't make this easy, but the intention is still there. That during the year we probably get an increase of about half a billion dollars in the cost of population protection compared to what was set aside last autumn, does not make it easy to implement the budget, and that the input-driven financing of the hospital sector also turns out to be so successful that it will pull off farms with a few hundred million dollars more, doesn't make it easier with a pretty thin stock item. But as I said, the intention is to implement the budget as strictly as it was adopted, precisely because the main purpose of the budget was to facilitate a reduction in interest rates, a gradual reduction towards the European level during the year. That's, as I said several times in the previous round of questions, the most important thing for this government to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e289	It does not support good intentions when it comes to fiscal governance. We simply have to be willing and determined to implement it. It's possible. The Norwegian economy is solid enough to keep a tight fiscal stance in any case in a year. It is clear that it gives a very poor signal effect that a government already starts with the first additional allocation – not proposed by itself, but through its government parties – to the Stortinget in mid-January of the financial year. Then you give a signal to other departments that here it is possible to try and get through as well. I'm thinking about the 47.5 million freight balancing allocation. NOK – not in itself a large amount, but it has signal effects for many. My question is then: how does the Minister of Finance think it will affect wage-setting when he stands and says that he cannot guarantee the rigour of the fiscal system for 1999, thus supporting those who are concerned that the level of interest will not fall? After all, it is a prerequisite for a moderate wage settlement that people should not continue to lose large sums of the supplement from last year and overhanged this year via increased interest expense.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e301	I do not feel that it is possible to give more guarantees than what I have done to implement a tight budget line. These include: also depending on the pressure in Stortingen to take action, as it is often called, to counteract the increase in unemployment. In this case, it will make it even more difficult to implement a tight budget. But I hope that the social partners see the writing on the wall, that almost regardless of how interest rates develop, it is necessary to get a very moderate salary settlement for spring. And I have so much hope for that. I think that the signals that have come, among other things, from LO, alerts that you will get a moderate settlement for spring. If you don't get a moderate settlement for spring, at least it's quite certain that interest rates won't go down fast and we'll probably get a higher price increase than we would otherwise have. Then the challenges of employment and unemployment growth are even greater than a moderate settlement. So again – a moderate settlement in any case is necessary to achieve springtime.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e308	There will be follow-up questions – Hill-Marta Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e311	I have to say that it is quite remarkable what we hear from the Minister of Finance today. It is hardly possible to find a similar example – the Minister of Finance is in the Netherlands in mid-February and suggests that the financial framework for 1999 is not in place, the tightness of the budget will not be kept, and he is actually giving a budget tip today. I think it is quite serious, and my question to the Minister of Finance is: Is it possible for the Minister of Finance to consider how this will affect the situation in the future when the Government today announces budget deficits on the social security budget and the health budget and has no instructions on how to deal with that situation?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e318	I must say that I think the will to understand what is being said is rather small and the willingness to interpret it differently from what has been said is quite significant. And I think it's a little special when it comes from the Workers' Party, which just last round had a representative who stood and listed a lot of areas where there was a need for further appropriations. In that case, it will not make it easier to implement the tight budget line that we have adopted. But again, it is the Government's clear intention to implement the tight budget adopted for 1999.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e323	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e326	I have a question for the Council of State, Marit Arnstad. The situation in the oil industry is alarming after the information we now receive on heavy downsizing, reductions, etc. The future doesn't seem so bright. Now I am aware that the government is not unilaterally responsible for the oil prices, which are a large part of the reason for this. But I am aware of the Government's attitude towards the oil expansion in the North Sea and the activity there, and in particular the Center Party, which has been committed to lower activity. My question to the Council of State is: can the Government now promise that it will not repeat its previous proposals regarding the framework conditions for the oil industry, namely increased CO2 taxes and increased taxes for this industry, and simplified procedures for development projects? In other words, can we expect the Government to take initiatives in terms of framework conditions for this industry so that we can have employment at a higher level?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e338	I agree with the Nordtun representative that we are facing a worrying situation with regard to the oil industry and oil-related activities, and perhaps in particular the workshop – and the supplier industry. I also agree with the representative Nordtun that it is primarily a low oil price that seriously affects the Norwegian oil industry. It shows, among other things: how dependent we are on the situation on the oil market and the situation in the international oil industry. The government is set to try to reduce the disadvantages and the negative effects of the difficult period we're in the middle of. There is no simple answer, I think, or any fascist response to how it can be done. I think flexibility is necessary in relation to individual decisions. The government has shown that, among other things. through the decision we made yesterday to reduce tariffs in the Ula field, which will ensure the 80 jobs associated with the Ula business. There is also a need for dialogue with industry on what measures they see as necessary both in the short and longer term. The government will return to the revised national budget and discuss with Stortinget what further measures are needed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e349	I thank you for your answer. My question, however, was what measures the Government is now looking at in the future. We were aware that oil prices were low and might be even lower when the State budget was being treated in the autumn. But the government then stood hard both on the CO2 charges and the cyclical fee, etc., yes, it even asked cabinet questions about this. Once again, the question to the Council of State: can one now expect to go deeper into the framework conditions for this industry, so that long-termity and predictability are increased, and that one can also imagine that one wants a high level of activity on a Norwegian base to ensure not only income but also employment?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e356	Let me first say that I think it's an open question if someone in 1998 really understood how persistent the low oil price would be. I am thinking not least of the fact that in 1998, too, we had the debate on the possibility of contributing to production regulation, which initially received a very cool reception just because you might not be serious about the situation. Having said that, I think we have a common task, the political parties among themselves, in the future to look at what measures can be taken to get through the difficult period of the Norwegian oil industry now in. I do not believe, for my part, that it is an objective to return to the high and pressured level of activity we had in 1998, which in many ways led to a recovery of the costs associated with the business on the base. But I think it's important that the authorities help to facilitate a reasonable level of activity. In the current situation, it will also mean being willing to take action to promote new developments. I would particularly like to point out the gas field and the gas side as important in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e363	There will be follow-up questions – Hallgeir H. Langeland.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e366	The cheese selection just showed up its setting in Stavanger, and there were exceedances of approx. $30 billion. That's $700,000 a day. hour per day for five years. These are huge sums of money. My claim is that some of the reasons why these exceedances are our tax system. There's no doubt that this is a professional oil company, which is deliberately providing investment forecasts that are too low, and then in the next round to deduct it from the tax. My question to the Minister is therefore: Does she intend to look at this issue in the further work? And it's the Workers' Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party, that have driven up the pace in the North Sea. How does the Council of State see that a better management of the activity can be achieved, which is now low due to the market situation?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e373	I think the results and the investigation presented by the Kaasen Committee are interesting, because there are a number of possibilities to achieve better and more predictable planning for the development of the individual fields. Predictability is a matter for which most batches are involved in the oil industry. The cheese selection points, among other things, to as one reason for having had a boosted level of activity. It is also one of the reasons why I say that it is not necessarily a goal to come back to the level of activity we had in 1998, because it itself was cost-effective. But at the same time you have to be able to lie down on a reasonable level of activity. With regard to the other proposals from the Kaasen Committee, I would say that it is difficult to point to a single measure such as the action that would have changed the situation. It is a set of factors that should be considered, whether in terms of administrative procedures, the planning of operators in previous phases or the tax and tax regime.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e382	Ranveig Frøiland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e385	I'm going back to the main question and the employment in the oil sector. Today, we heard that 400 people in Saga must go up. There were strangely dark numbers for Hydro's situation yesterday. And the foreign oil companies that are merging are going to say a lot of things. This reinforces what we discussed earlier, that the employment situation can be very difficult beyond the year. The question then is what kind of framework conditions this industry will have. There's not enough meeting with the oil industry, at least it's safe, there must be measures that work. And when we know that the Prime Minister asked cabinet questions about an increase in CO2 tax last summer, as the oil price was also low, one of course does not want such measures again. My question to the Council of State is: does she feel that she has control of the situation when it comes to unemployment and the long-term framework conditions? Is it enough time to wait for the revision?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e396	First, I have to say that in a situation where you see that the oil stocks are crowded, that the demand deficit in Asia is very strong, and that the oil price is $10, I should have liked to see someone who says they feel they have control of the situation. I don't think political authorities or industry can say that. Because it's clear that we're dependent on international economic cycles in the oil market, which affect us to a greater or lesser extent. What we can try to do is mitigate the negative effects associated with the difficult situation we're facing. And as I have tried to explain in the previous answer, the government is busy with it. We are concerned with showing flexibility in relation to individual questions. I mentioned what has now appeared in connection with the Ula field and the 80 workplaces associated with it. I believe that a dialogue with industry is extremely important, and it is not, of course, a single meeting. I think it's really a shame to try to minimize this dialogue, because it's clear that it's not just a meeting. It's about trying to have a dialogue with the industry to get on the table what action they want us to take in order to get through this wave valley.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e405	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e408	I would like to ask Restad a question. The Councils of Arnstad and Restad have repeatedly had to respond to the passivity of the Government. In a situation where most is unsafe — and one is right — a government must be offensive and not passive in relation to meeting the situation. The state budget was tightened up too much – that's what Siv Jensen says in today's tabloidist. And when Siv Jensen says that, maybe you should also think in the Ministry of Finance, because the tightening has actually helped reduce some of the activities that would otherwise have been there. In the case of kindergartens, in the case of the construction industry, this is the case in the municipalities and not least in the major ring-effects it has. Then I instead asked Restad a question about the payroll and what device the department wants to have on it. It is therefore important to clarify two aspects in particular. One is the Government's relationship to the reform of continuing education, which Restad did not respond to in the meantime, and the other is how the Council of State is to ensure that management wages become moderate, giving a signal to ordinary workers that it should be a moderate settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e420	I don't think you should have Siv Jensen as a witness to the truth as to whether the budget was too tight or too tight. It was at least so that the Progress Party also set up an agreement with the government parties in the autumn on a budget that was as it turned out. International observers and analysts do not agree that the budget was too tight – on the contrary. The recent IMF report and the OECD report, which was presented yesterday, say that the budget is adapted to the current economic situation. I will not accept that the budget adopted was too tight. On the contrary, I believe that it was necessary to restore confidence in the Norwegian economy and to facilitate interest rates towards the European level. Although it is not the only factor that affects — the oil price is obviously of even greater importance — there is no doubt that a government budget adapted to the economic challenges is also important to create confidence and bring interest down. The payroll I have said what I think about. It must be moderate, and the device must be left to the parties. But it should be a very moderate settlement, preferably near a zero settlement. In this respect, in order to contribute to a moderate wage settlement, the Government has signalled too far that we will contribute to a continuous training reform on the rails. It is a theme for a selection in which the social partners are also involved, who are now working, and who have a deadline of this month to present their views to the Government. So we have a good dialogue, including: on the question of how to achieve the continuous training reform on the rails as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e429	I am pleased that the Council of State says so clearly that he wants to contribute to a reform of continuing education, because it will be the germ of growth in the next round and will, of course, also contribute to a moderate settlement. In the discussion about the budget has been too tight or not, the Council of State and I will probably disagree. When I bring out the representative Jensen, it's not because she's actually a witness of truth, but to show that budgetary rigour means unemployment. It's closely related. And that means that when you tighten too much, it necessarily has consequences for the activity of a society. Let me just challenge the Council of State: if the Council of State still minimizes the fact that unemployment is going to rise, but it still rises beyond spring and towards wage-setting, does that mean that the Council of State is willing to take new measures, as he did with the yard support? If new measures are to be put in place in the area of housing, new measures will be put in place to ensure the development of kindergartens, new measures will be put in place for the local economy, which will have positive ring-effects, and, in particular, the Council of State will also ensure that measures will be taken to ensure the smooth development of...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e438	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e441	It is not possible to answer all the questions asked in one minute. I would like to point out that the biggest challenges and where there is a greater increase in unemployment than we saw four to five months ago when we presented the national budget are – as I have now seen in several rounds – in oil-related activities. The prospects there are not primarily caused by the state budget, but by the fact that we have received a lasting very low oil price. Then the Prime Minister and I have not devalued the danger of unemployment repeatedly. I have to refute again that we have done so. We have said that we will continuously assess the situation and come back to Stortinget with proposals if we consider it necessary. But once again, the most important thing is to get interest rates down. I hope that Djupedal can also agree that this is what helps best and most to maintain employment and prevent an increase in unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e450	It becomes follow-up questions – Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e453	The said OECD report not only concluded that the tightness of the budget was important but claimed that an increase in unemployment would be healthy for the Norwegian economy. I want the finance minister's view on it, and whether it is in line with the government's view that it would have been good. It is such that the Government has now signaled on several occasions that it is ready to launch an emergency plan if the unemployment rate increases. It's taken SV seriously. The government has also signaled very strongly that it wants a policy that reduces the differences in the country. One of the areas currently being worked on is the residential area. We know that means a big difference for people whether you have a dwelling or not. From the government there came a letter two days ago that indicates that there is a need for up to 5000 extra dwellings per person. years. Does the Minister of Finance see an increased investment in housing as a good tool if unemployment is to increase now?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e460	Firstly, it is not the government's policy to go for increased unemployment. There we disagree with the statements made by the OECD. However, the OECD itself has pointed out a number of factors that they consider different from ours, which allow for an increase in unemployment. I had in mind a previous answer that they assumed that the social partners did not have the power to reach an agreement on a moderate settlement for spring. There's an overhang here on about 3.3 pst, and that makes you get a moderate settlement, and there's no room for any further additions that matter. But the OECD report suggests a 6.6 pst wage increase. in the current year — that is, an even greater wage increase than we had as a result of last year’s wage settlement. I hope that doesn't happen. In that case, I think you will maintain a high level of employment and avert an increase in unemployment. [[The President clubs]] With regard to the differences, I have no time to say anything but that the Government will present a communication on that issue, how many measures are being assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e467	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e470	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. The low oil prices we have had over a period of time have created major problems for the oil industry. Planned expansion projects have become unprofitable, and we see that this leads to expansion and investment drying on the base. We hear every day through the press that oil companies and supplier companies are notifying about permits and cancellations, which several others have been involved in here today, and the worst predictions say that as much as 30 000 jobs can be lost. There is a lot of evidence that we have to live with low oil prices over a period of time, and that doesn't make the future very bright for the oil industry. My question to the Council of State is therefore: Has the Government now understood the seriousness of the situation, and what will the Council of State do specifically to change the framework conditions for the oil sector, so that the industry can survive this crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e479	As I explained in a previous answer, the Government is concerned about the situation. We will continue to follow it, we will demonstrate flexibility in relation to individual questions, we will now engage in a dialogue with industry to get on the table the measures it considers necessary to get more activity and also to get better conditions, especially in the workshop and supplier industries. Then we will return to the revised national budget and discuss possible measures with the Stortinget. It is too early for me now to anticipate what concrete measures may be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e484	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I think was positive, but a little concrete. The oil sector may, above all, depend on long-term and predictable framework conditions. Since the government joined, we have unfortunately got some suggestions that are breaking this down. I mention investment delays, production restrictions, increases in CO2 taxes, tax increases and reductions in the framework for the simplified treatment of projects. Fortunately, several of these proposals have now been stopped in Stortinget. However, in addition to the low oil prices, this has weakened the competitive position and attractiveness of Norwegian cap. So the question is: can we now trust that the Government will not bring any more of this kind of play, and will the Government also consider reviewing the tax rules on the base of the critical situation for the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e492	Let me first repeat that it is too early to advance concrete measures before we have had the dialogue we are going to have with industry and before a revised national budget is presented. I'm sorry that the representative thinks the answer was a little concrete, but that must be the way we follow what I would call a normal way of doing things. The representative then points to some of the measures proposed in 1998, first of all the production regulation. The problem is a low oil price. In my opinion, the production regulation to which Norway has also contributed has helped to try to stabilise the price and to prevent it from falling at least below the level it currently enjoys. I think the Norwegian contribution that has been important. As far as investment delays are concerned, it is my opinion that they actually contribute to the fact that the supplier industry has more to do in 1999 than it would otherwise have had. Thus, investment delays have had a positive impact on the activity in 1999, because some of the tasks and activities would otherwise have come in 1998, as workshops had full job books.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e501	There will be follow-up questions – Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e504	Although much may look dark for the Norwegian oil and gas industry, there are also clear points of light. The evening post had an article on Monday where, among other things, wrote: ‘The gas market is exploding’. This indicated that between 30 and 40 pst. electricity production in Europe will be gas by 2015. Here is Norway’s opportunity. However, my concern is that the Government shows a lack of ability to exploit the possibility of making Norway a leading gas nation in the European context. So far, more attention has been paid to preserving existing structures – structures that few think will survive in the long run. My question to the Council of State is: What is the Government’s strategy to strengthen Norway’s position as a leading gas nation in Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e509	Let me first say that I agree with Mr Sanner that if we are in a difficult period, Norway has a good deal to contribute in the long term as an oil nation, and perhaps especially as a gas nation. We have opportunities that it will be positive to exploit both in terms of value added and employment. The government is concerned about our future as a gas nation. It concerns the work of the Government in a number of fields, including: in relation to the adopted Gas Directive, which is now under consideration by the EU. It also affects our relationship with those countries in which we have already concluded long-term gas supply contracts well beyond the next century – which will provide substantial revenues to the Norwegian state and contribute to value creation at home – and it also affects our initiatives in relation to the possibility of enhanced cooperation with the Baltic countries, particularly in the field of gas, but also electricity.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e514	Next follow-up question – Gunnar Halvorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e517	I think it is important to stress, as the Council of State does, that opportunities are high in Norway in the oil and gas sector. One so yesterday that trustees for Hydro talk about getting closer cooperation in Norwegian oil companies, and it also happens in foreign companies over a low shoe. My question to the Council of State is: How is it assessed to maintain the three Norwegian oil environments in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e522	The government's starting point is that there is an advantage if it is possible to maintain the three Norwegian oil environments in Norway, both because they represent something valuable in each of them because Statoil is a wholly-owned state-owned company, Hydro is partly State-owned, while Saga represents the private feature of the Norwegian oil companies. In each way, companies have contributed positively in terms of technology development and value creation. Otherwise, I would say that what we now see of structural changes in the oil industry is quite extensive. But I think it is important when discussing measures in relation to the oil industry, that we distinguish between the more short-term measures to improve the cyclical situation and the longer-term, where we take better time to discuss more thoroughly the structural issues that may arise.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e529	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e532	I have a question for the Minister of Development. On Monday she presented a strategy to support the development of the south's economy. Let me first stress that I think it is affordable that this plan is now being presented, and that it is very good in this plan. We've also been waiting for it for a while. However, there is no doubt that there has been concern about the relations of the Council of State with the participation of industry in Norwegian aid to developing countries. While the plan is designed to allow Norwegian enterprises to receive support for establishment and advice in developing countries, the Council of State, on the other hand, will not use subsidised aid schemes to stimulate Norwegian exports to developing countries – as an example. Rather, she would like to provide product assistance on an international tender and justify the over-pricedness of Norwegian companies. My question is, When has the majority of the Storting given a clear signal of closure or further dismantling of existing business regimes?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e537	I must correct the representative of Marit Nybakk on two points. One is that she has not got along with the further history of the dialogue with the business community, which is that the NHO and the business representatives now strongly support the strategy we presented, and are very pleased that they are now involved with the strategy and with land programmes and industrial development programmes that will be part of it. Secondly, it has not been indicated that we are no longer going to use subsidised schemes. What is in the strategy is exactly the same wording as in Annex 3 to the aid budget, in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget, which signals a slowdown in mixed credits. And we're showing in the industrial development strategy of Innst. S. No 229 for 1995-1996, the St.meld. No 19 for 1995-1996 was dealt with, where the Stortinget was very clear in its communications to the government – which was then from the Workers' Party – both in the case of the tender procedure and in the case of mixed credits. This majority remains firm, with the nuances that lie in the last budgetary position, which we are also following up in the industrial development strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e544	It is commendable that the Council of State has now taken business organisations on board, once it has developed a business strategy. But I still have to be allowed to problem this, because the state council's ever-recurring proposal to end almost at any cost can get some strange results. Among other things, it means that concrete Norwegian companies lose contracts in developing countries. Contracts do not go to local producers, but to multinational groups — e.g. ABB. In the budget position and also in the debate on the budget for the current year, we were very concerned that the business systems, which were cut by the majority of the Stortinget, had to be restored next year, at least at the level it was the year before. I would like to encourage as much as I can that this business plan be submitted in some way to the Stortinget, possibly in connection with a message of assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e550	I do not remember representatives from the Workers' Party saying that the appropriations for this post should be restored to the level they were before. On the contrary, the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Haakon Blankenburg, said very clearly that he supported the Government's original proposal. He thought you had cut in another 20 million. kr, which took place during the budgetary negotiations in Stortinget, went somewhat too far, but awaited a detailed statement by the Council of State. That's what he asked to happen in a development policy statement, which I confirmed would happen. What was also confirmed by the representatives of the Workers' Party was that they stood firm at the suspension submitted in connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 19 for 1995-1996, i.e. Innst. S. No 229. So the principal positions are firm. But, of course, we should come back with a detailed explanation of the strategy in the context of a development policy presentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e557	There will be follow-up questions – Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e560	Governments have been very concerned about decoupling in terms of our assistance. It's probably good in a lot of ways, but it can also have some rashes like, for example, the representative Nybakk just picked up. Where goods are offered for tender, the tendering system itself is such that it will give the largest producers in the international market the benefit of their winnings. Is it possible that a different relationship between Norwegian business and the south business could also be a way to go? Does the Council of State see any concern about systematically putting this on the market?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e567	I refer again to what the Workers' Party's representatives said in the Innst. S No 229 for 1995-1996, where it was very concerned that these missions were to be tendered, but wanted regional and local supplies to be given priority. This we're trying to follow up as best we can, and it happens in two ways. One is that, together with a number of OECD countries — there are only a few countries that are now slowing development — we are working within the OECD to fully unify all aid to the least developed countries. Norway is participating with other driving countries, and we will follow this development closely – that is, follow what we say – with other driving countries. Secondly, we also say that what we want in the industrial development strategy is joint ventures and partnerships between Norwegian companies and companies in the south. This means that if it can contribute to the benefit of companies in the south, it will be a very clear advantage, and it will provide jobs in the south, rather than, for example, providing jobs in the south. risks over-pricing, which is part of the current arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e574	Siri Frost Sterri – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e577	I am very pleased that the Council of State now announces that she will make a statement to the Stortinget, even with regard to the plan she has presented earlier this week. We also think that the right-hand side is very important. I notice that the Council of State is trying to give the impression that she is always acting in accordance with what the majority of the Grand Duchy has expressed. I find it appropriate to recall that, at the latest during the budgetary procedure for the current year, the majority, the Right and the Labour Party stressed that unilateral measures by the Norwegian side in the conversion of food aid will give adverse results. I find reason to point it out in relation to what the Council of State has already said in this matter. It is well and good that business signals the willingness to discuss this further, and has received it positively, but I would like to stress the warning that has come from the majority of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e584	We're also going to show you to both Innst. S No 229 to St. meld. No 19 and the budgetary position of the industrial development strategy. Of course, this will be followed up. But the way we're following it up, and what we're signaling, is we're not going alone. On the contrary, the strategy emphasises that this is not a matter for Norway to do unilaterally, but something that we do with OECD countries, not least other drivers in the OECD. That's how we want to implement this. Norway is not unique here; on the contrary, we are on a common team to work towards the abolition of Norwegian aid. Let me also mention that there are concrete examples that this is about using development assistance as efficiently as possible and getting the most help for each krona. There are several examples that the goods purchased through mixed credits have been 100 pst. more expensive – i.e. twice as expensive – than it could be achieved by increasing the use of competition. It may surprise me a little bit that the right here is not so concerned with international competition, as they otherwise state as very important in all other contexts, but takes a somewhat more protective line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e593	We're now a little bit overtime. It's because the clocks have been late. Now they're fixed, and the president then records that we've spent a little longer time than we should have done. But Jan Tore Sanner is advertised, and he will of course be asked his question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e596	Thank you, President! My question goes to Arnstad State Council. An important element of the debate on bringing Norwegian oil and gas policy into a new phase is the question of sub-privatisation of Statoil. So far, the Council of State has rejected a discussion on the sub-privatisation of Statoil's core business. However, the Prime Minister gave new and positive signals in Stortinget last Thursday. At that time, a more comprehensive oil policy compromise was opened up by the Prime Minister, which must also include a discussion on the partial privatisation of Statoil. I understood the Prime Minister that there was then no ultimate demand that the core business be kept out. My question to the Arnstad Council of State is whether she agrees that there is a need for a new oil policy compromise, where all aspects of Statoil can be discussed, including a partial privatisation of the core business.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e605	It is true that the Government’s position is that the core areas of Statoil’s activities should be state-wide. This applies primarily to the production of oil and gas, and to the transport of the same. Then we see a debate emerging on the future structure of Statoil and Statoil's activities. There is a debate in which the Government is open to participate. We are open to discuss these issues with other parties. It is a big and important discussion not only for the company Statoil, but for the entire Norwegian petroleum management. This means that in such a debate one should take good time. This should be treated in a proper and thorough manner. One should also seek a broad political settlement about it for any position that might have to be taken. This does not mean that one has pushed out what content such a settlement would have, but one notes that any settlement in such issues should be based on a broad political basis in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e612	Let me say that I agree that time should be taken, if not too long, in this matter, and that it will be a strength to achieve a broad political compromise on oil policy for the future as well. Now I think maybe the Council of State is giving a little bit of different signals. On the one hand, it is said that the core business should be State-owned. At the same time, it is said that you are open to discuss. Does this mean that a requirement is made that the core business should be state-owned, or can I interpret Arnstad as such that she now also opens up to discuss whether the core business of Statoil should be part-privatised?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e618	Now it's like any discussion has to have a starting point. You have to have a point of view when you're discussing something. The government’s position today is that Statoil’s core areas should be state-wide. We see that there is a debate on it. There are likely to be arguments both for and against another type of organisation of Statoil. There is a debate The government is prepared to participate in, and we are prepared to participate in the discussion. I think there are some important and unexplained aspects of that question. Perhaps it is particularly important how to plan for the future to organise the country's direct financial involvement, HOUSE, which is, of course, three times the size of the company Statoil. How to organise it in the years to come is a very important part of this matter – plus, of course, the fact that it is really about the whole of Norwegian petroleum management.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e623	Then the oral question procedure is over. We're moving on to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e628	In view of the high number of questions to be answered, the President considers that she has to be informed by virtue of Paragraph 53 of the Rules of Procedure. The last 3 paragraphs have determined that only one supplementary question will be raised after the main question has been answered. This is considered necessary for the current map to be completed within the scheduled time of the morning meeting. There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 5, from the representative of Ågot Valle to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Health who directs him. At the request of the Minister of Health, this question is moved and answered in front of question 36, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 8, from the representative Erik Solheim to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left. Question 13, from the representative of Leif Lund to the Minister for Local Affairs and Labour, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, who has been removed. Question 14, from the representative Torbjørn Andersen to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Social Affairs who directs him. Question 15, from Mr Ågot Valle to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, is postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Questions 19 to 21, from the representatives of Inger Lise Husøy, Bjørn Hernæs and Jan Petter Rasmussen respectively to the Minister of Justice, will be answered by the Minister of Church, Education and Research on behalf of the Minister of Justice, who has a history of disease. Question 26, from the representative of Grete Knudsen to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries, who will direct him. At the request of the Minister for Fisheries, this question is moved and answered in response to question 12, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 34, from the representative of Marit Tingelstad to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e657	I will ask this question to the Prime Minister: ‘The Minister of State will travel to the Middle East in a few days’ time. Following the signing of the Oslo Agreement in 1993, Israel has annexed more and more parts of the West Bank and Jerusalem through new settlements. How will the Prime Minister during his stay in Israel address the many Israeli violations of the Oslo Agreement?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e666	The Middle East peace process is still in a difficult phase. The non-implementation of the ‘The Wye Memorandum’, the Israeli elections and the disappearance of King Hussein are all matters which complicate work towards lasting peace. The Norwegian Government's message in the last few months has been that the peace agreements are firm and must be implemented. As Erik Solheim is familiar with, the peace process is based on the Security Council Resolutions 242 of 1967 and 338 of 1973. On the Norwegian side, the annexation of East Jerusalem by Israel is not recognised, and we are concerned about the ongoing Israeli settlement activities in the Palestinian territories. In the case of Jerusalem, the future status of the city shall be determined during the final status negotiations between Israel and the PLO. In the meantime, the parties should refrain from any action that would lead to the final outcome of the negotiation. The government is therefore concerned about new Israeli settlements in East Jerusalem. In our opinion, the settlement activity is contrary to the intent of the Oslo agreements. Norway has made our position known to the Israeli authorities on a number of occasions and will continue to address the matter in our bilateral contacts. The UN General Assembly has dealt with the issue of Jerusalem on several occasions. On Tuesday, February 9, this year, the UN Special Session on Jerusalem adopted a resolution condemning Israeli settlement. My trip to the region next week will be a good opportunity for me to make the Norwegian view on some difficult questions clear. I will do that in meetings with both Israeli and Palestinian authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e686	I should like to thank the Prime Minister for his positive reply. The clear concern expressed by Norway about the Israeli policy with – as it is called in English – ‘creating facts on the ground’ is good, and I am pleased that the Prime Minister will address this during his visit to Israel. There are also other aspects of Israeli policy that there is every reason to be concerned about. Let me mention a couple of them. One thing that should be at the heart of the Prime Minister is the working conditions of Christians and other religionists in Israel. As we know, Israel, together with Pakistan, is the only states in the world that are formed on the basis of a religion, and that is all cause for concern for the working conditions of other religions in Israel. I want to ask the Prime Minister if it's a theme he wants to address. Another theme is the many political prisoners of Israel, some of whom do not even receive the most elementary international rights, such as the right to meet the Red Cross, are allowed to give messages to their family, meet Amnesty International and so on. Let me give you one example: Mustapha Dirani, who was kidnapped in South Lebanon four years ago, and who has not yet been allowed to give a life sign off through any of these channels. Are these the themes that will be addressed during the Prime Minister's visit?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e697	Yes, with regard to freedom of religion in Israel, I myself, as Prime Minister, have engaged myself directly and strongly in this matter. As Solheim knows, there have been proposals in the Knesset of an anti-evangelization law that would limit the possibility of free religious practice in Israel to religions other than Judaism. I took this up orally with Prime Minister Netanyahu when he was in Oslo. I followed it up with – I think it was – two letters. So far this law has not been passed, and the possibilities of not adopting it are increasing. As I have understood, the Norwegian Prime Minister's commitment in this way has actually had its meaning. As far as human rights are concerned, I will deal with this both with Israel and with the Palestinian authorities. There are also critical points to be made in relation to the Palestinians on human rights issues — not least the situation in Palestinian prisons.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e707	I would like to ask the Minister for Culture the following questions: «The OL arena The Viking Ship on Hamar was a success that the indoor skater arena under the OL in 1994 and at the latest during the World Cup a week ago the hall showed its excellent characteristics. The uncertainty surrounding the Viking ship as the active ice skater arena and future state plants ‘– not rich facilities, but national facilities —’ should now be addressed as soon as possible. How will the Council of State contribute to this?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e716	The Viking ship at Hamar is owned and operated by Hamar Olympic Facility AS, HOA. It is an ordinary limited liability company for the purpose of operating and developing the OL facilities in Hamar. The company owns 100 pst. by the municipality of Hamar. In his question, the representative, Glötvold, addresses the disagreement between the municipality of Hamar and Hamar Olympic Facility AS on the one hand and the Norwegian Skøttebund on the other. The disagreement concerns the duration and periods during which the Viking ship is to be arranged for skating activities and the allocation of the costs of the periods. The case has been updated on several occasions since the summer of 1995, and is related to the framework conditions established for the operation and use of the Viking Ship. I agree with Mr Glötvold that the situation surrounding the Viking ship should be clarified. Since the spring of 1998, the Ministry of Culture has been working to clarify the will and ability of the municipalities and associations of Norway to find a solution for the Viking Ship as a future national facility for skaters. The award of national plant status requires the conclusion of a legally binding agreement between the implicit parties, i.e. the municipality, the special association and the state. Such a contract work would include, inter alia: regulate economic conditions related to future operations and investments as well as the use of the installation. However, I would like to point out that the ministry cannot, or will not, force a status as a national facility for the Viking ship if the special federation in question is opposed. The Viking ship at Hamar is in a special position in relation to other relevant national installations. The plant is fully financed by State resources and the operating company has 60 million. kr through the local after-use fund for operation and maintenance. However, Hamar Municipality has ordered the HOA to operate the company in balance, without municipal subsidies and without using the fund capital. In view of the country’s previous financial contribution and the signal effect on other national installations, it is my clear opinion that the disagreement between the municipality of Hamar and the Norwegian Skøttebund should neither be resolved nor can it be resolved by the fact that the State grants operating grants to installations without further delay. The Ministry is set to continue the dialogue with the municipality of Hamar and Norway’s Skøtteförbund with a view to establishing the Viking Ship as a national facility for skaters. The liabilities of the State will then relate to future investments, in the same way as for other national installations. In parallel, the Ministry of Culture will simultaneously seek dialogue with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs for a detailed assessment of the Viking Ship operating regime, in relation to the assumptions underlying the allocation of the local after-use fund.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e735	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am pleased with the presentation that was made, and the constructive signal that came out here. Among other things, I am pleased with the initiative taken by the Ministry of Culture in the spring of 1998 to review and clarify this relationship. I hope that the Ministry will continue to engage in a dialogue with the municipality of Hamar and Norway's Skøiteförbund to establish the Viking Ship as a national facility, and that the State will continue to commit itself to linking future investments to this, as for other national facilities. I believe that this unique facility at Hamar – uniquely both as the sports arena and purely architectural – should be exploited as the original idea was, that the city of Hamar now knows its visit time, and that the Skøtteverbund also sees the great advantages and characteristics of this facility – which are established and thus indebted, and which have shown its good qualities. I also think that the Sports Association would like to enter the arena in connection with the prioritisation of national facilities, so that we can get a quick clarification of this relationship.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e742	It is also my hope that we can come to an arrangement that will put an end to this conflict, which has been going on for years now. As I said in my reply, it depends on the conclusion of a legally binding agreement between the parties, which is the municipality, Skøttebundet and the state. I agree that these are quite unique installations, and I also remember that the plant is fully financed by the state, and that an after-use fund was established in the municipality of Hamar of 60 million. kr. It is clear that there are obligations related to this as well. I'll try to contribute to a constructive dialogue. I pointed out that the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, which is responsible for post-use, should also be involved in the process, and I will, of course, ensure that. Moreover, there are several people who have views and who may be able to contribute. We'll see about that. But the most important thing is to get a binding legal agreement between the three parties I mentioned, the municipality of Hamar, the Skøttebund – in this case – and the state.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e752	I will ask the Minister for Culture and Sport the following questions: ‘Norges Sports Association has applied to the Ministry of Culture for 15 million. $4 million, of which $4 million. crowns shall be allocated to the administration. [[NIF]] Not long ago, the NIF and the Ministry of Culture allocated a total of 1.5 million. SEK for a sports directorship in the European Olympic Committee [[EOC]] How does the Council of State view this as a priority when, through their crisis request for more funds, they show that they cannot afford to maintain the activity of the parallel sport?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e761	The allocation of funds to the Norwegian Sports and Olympic Committee (NIF) for 1999 was adopted by the Council of State on 18 December 1998. The NIF was then allocated a total of 267.8 million. SEK of expected profits in Norwegian Typing AS for the 1998 season. This corresponds to an increase of approx. $13 million. kr in relation to the 1998 allocation. This increase includes, inter alia: an increase of the framework grant by approximately 7.5 million. kr. The 1999 framework grant thus amounts to 216,3 million. kr. The Ministry has provided overall guidance on the use of the framework grant to TIF. It is assumed that the funds are used to achieve key public sport policy objectives. It is clarified which target groups are particularly important in this context, in particular children and young people, and that the funds should benefit more fully from the local level of associations and clubs. This implies that, in addition to the overall leadership and assumptions, the Ministry must deal to a large extent with the disposals and priorities of the NIF itself. The Ministry of Culture therefore emphasises the need to balance the consideration given to state leadership and the achievement of objectives in relation to the autonomy of sport. This is also in line with the assessments of the National Audit Office’s report on the management of the NIF Framework Grant, Document No. 3:12 for 1997-98. In addition, the Ministry has clearly indicated to the NCI that a trend is expected towards a greater share of the framework grant funds being used for activity and that a smaller share is used for administration in the NCI system. This is also fully in line with the external assessments carried out on behalf of the organisation. The Ministry is working on the implementation of a transmission system with a new budgetary structure, where the framework grants are fragmented into several smaller framework grants which more clearly identify key public sport policy objectives. Children, young people and sportsmen will have a central place in this system. This transmission system is planned to start with the allocation of funds to NIF for the year 2000. The NCI’s application for additional funds for 1999 is pending in the Department. I do not see this as a crisis request from the NIF, as a large part of the funds are intended rental costs in connection with moving to the Ullevaal Stadium and administrative costs. These are expenditure items which would naturally require the organisation to prioritise within the framework grant of 216,3 million. kr. The background to the Ministry’s decision on commitment to any funds related to the development directorship of the European Olympic Committee has been previously outlined in the Questionnaire on 27 January this year. A written explanation of this has also been provided on questions from the representative Fossum. There should therefore be no reason to repeat the department's assessment, but I would like to stress that this is an exceptional case promoted by the NIF after the annual allocation was carried out by the State Council on 18 December.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e776	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was a review of how the allocation to NIF is carried out. I have an assignment letter from the Department of the Norwegian Federation of Sports and a request from the NIF for emergency funds. These two letters show that a very strong detailed management of a large voluntary organisation is carried out on the part of the Ministry. NIF is not very satisfied with it, but I'll leave it now and come back to it on a later occasion. But I'm somewhat surprised that the sports minister might not be aware of the large costs that moving to Ullevaal Stadium would bring in increased rental costs. And when she actually agreed to spend money on a new administrative project, which the development director of the EOC is, she agrees to steer the sport more administratively. Then is my question to the Minister for Sports: Did the Minister for Sports know that there would be a new application? Did she know that the rental expenses at Ullevaal Stadium would be much higher?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e785	Let me first say that in my answer I said that it was important to find a balance between state leaders for the achievement of goals and the autonomy of sport. I believe that this has been done with the letter of assignment that has been given. I assume that the representative Fossum is aware that we received an endorsement from the National Audit Office – as I also mentioned in my reply – that we must, of course, take seriously, and try to follow up better on how the Sports Federation manages the money you receive from the state. I understand that the representative Fossum is amazed that we agreed to a partial financing of any position in the EOC, because it might have to be set up against what has come up in an extraordinary application from the NIF. I would like to say that the first case, which I answered questions about in the Questionnaire on 27 January, I see as a very special, extraordinary case that could not be overseen in connection with the application and allocation of funds for 1999. What is now available is the more an application that goes very much on money for administration and rental costs. It amazes me if the representative Fossum, with what was said here in the pulpit, conveys that she wants us to meet such an application. I have not taken a decision on this. I will, of course, consider that, but I have the impression that in terms of both administration and rental costs, there are issues for which it is not right to grant exceptional grants after the application has been processed and commitments have been given for 1999.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e795	‘Does the Council wish to amend the legislation so that foster parents who wish to adopt their own foster children can do so by a simple procedure?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e800	Adoption means that all legal ties between the child and the biological parents are broken. When adopted, all the duties and rights of biological parents are transferred to adoptive parents. An adoption is final and cannot be undone. Just because an adoption has such consequences, the legislation shall ensure that adoptions that are not best for the child are not implemented. The main condition for adoption under the adoption law is that adoption must be considered to be beneficial to the child. The adoption authorisation may be granted mainly only to persons who have reached the age of 25 and to adoption applicants who are married to each other. If the biological parents have parental responsibility for the child, it is a condition for adoption that parents consent to adoption. Parents who do not have parental responsibility have the right to express themselves. No valid consent to adoption may be given until two months after the birth of the child. Children of 12 years of age cannot be adopted without their own consent. If the biological parents themselves have parental responsibility for the child and consent to adoption, and those who want to adopt the child fulfil the conditions laid down in the law, the county council may grant permission if they find that adoption will benefit the child. The decision of the county council may be appealed to the State Youth and Adoption Office. If the biological parents don't want to adopt their child away, it's not that simple, and I don't think it should be. But adoption can also happen without the consent of the biological parents. Under the Children’s Protection Act, the county may consent to adoption in their place when parents are deprived of care and parental responsibility for the child under the child’s child protection law. Adoption against the will of biological parents is a very serious intervention and therefore cannot be done by a simple procedure. The main rule under the Children’s Protection Act is that children and parents are entitled to association and contact with each other even when the Child Protection Service has care for the child and the child lives in the foster home or institution. As noted, it is the county that can consent to adoption in its own town. The case handling in the county is thorough and will ensure that all aspects of the case are informed before a decision is taken. In such a case, the council is composed of a lawyer, who is the leader of the denominator, two experts and two general members. There are two alternative main conditions for adoption against parents' will. One is that it must be counted as probable that the biological parents will permanently not be able to provide the child with defensive care. The second is that the child has been associated with the human being and the environment where the child is, after an overall assessment, it can lead to serious problems for the child if it is moved. The last option may be applicable where the child has for a long time bid in the foster home and joins his or her foster parents. In addition, there is a condition for adoption consent that adoption will be best for the child, and that adoption applicants have been foster parents for the child and have shown themselves willing to raise the child as their own. I believe that the conditions for adoption against biological parents should be strict, and that the handling of matters in such circumstances should be thorough. That's the promise today. I would also like to remind you that in 1996 Norway was convicted in the European Court of Human Rights of infringing Article 8 of the Convention on Human Rights in a case such as the blatant denial of association and the waiver of parental responsibility with a view to adopting against mother's will. I'm not going to go into this matter any more, but I would like to stress that changing the legislation so that adoption can take place through a simple procedure when the biological parents are disagreed will be contrary to, among other things. The Convention on Human Rights. I therefore do not see any reason to change the legislation in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e823	I feel that we are living at a time when the child’s needs have to be weighed heavily – the child’s expectations and the requirement for stable and good growth conditions. So it made a certain impression when the department received a report on the knowledge status of foster home work now at the turn of the year. There's a couple of things that get stuck as a main conclusion. The main problem is that the situation is temporary — there is a problem for children in foster homes. The second finding is that adoption is the best documented child protection measure. I hope that the Ministry can continue to work on it, as it is also socially viable. If a long-term need for foster home placement has been identified, it should be carefully considered whether parental rights should be waived, in order to give children a better chance of a most secure childhood – for childhood is so short.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e828	I agree with the representative of Gedrem on the basis of his question. I also know about the report being drawn up here, and I am aware that there is a problem that the child does not know that one might have to wait for a decision. At the same time, we also have obligations in relation to the Human Rights Commission here in Norway. We've got one verdict against us, as I mentioned in my answer. What I can fill in my answer with is that we've now seen down a selection that's going to come with a NoU that's going to take care of the child protection and the foster home problem, and it's obvious that some of the issues that the representative raised in his question to me will be taken up there. But I also think it is important that we do not weaken the role of parents in giving children good growth. I know that part of our neighboring countries, among others. Denmark, looks at Norway because we intervene by force more times than they do there. We have the possibility, as I said in my answer, to go against their parents' wishes – with two different foundations – and that possibility is being used. But I don't think the children are likely to expand the law in this area either.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e835	Question 5 will be answered later, in front of question 36.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e841	I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘Norwegian Hydro ASA is again criticised for its project in the state of Orissa in India. Amnesty International is now going to investigate the company and the state authorities' treatment of critics of the project, according to Today's Business Day, February 9, 1999. Among other things, the police were accused of forcing more people to sell the land so that the project could get started. What will the Council of State, as the representative of the majority of the Norwegian Hydro ASA, do with these serious accusations?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e850	I have previously expressed the government's view of Hydro's project in Orissa through answers in the questionnaire, in St.meld. No 18 – Enterprises in which the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has ownership interests and, through written presentation, directly to the representative of Langeland. Norsk Hydro's project in Orissa is controversial, and from the Government's side we have expressed concern over several aspects of the project. These concerns have been expressed by representatives of the Government in meetings with Hydro's management. Norsk Hydro, for its part, believes that environmental impacts have been analysed and much done to meet the local population. The project has also been approved by central and local political authorities in India. The representative of Langeland claims in his question that Amnesty International will now investigate Norwegian Hydro's treatment of critics of the project. In this context, I would like to point out that Amnesty, in its communication to the state authorities in Orissa, stresses that they do not want to decide on the industrial projects in question in the area. In other words, Amnesty’s issue does not appear to be Hydro’s project, as the representative suggests, but the actions of the Indian authorities against non-governmental organisations in the area. In this context, Amnesty calls on the state authorities to show respect for freedom of organisation and expression. Norwegian Hydro has stated that they agree with these points of view and that they have prejudiced the same views in contact with local authorities. In the management of the State's interests, the Government places emphasis on complying with the share law's requirements for the relationship and the division of competences between the shareholders, i.e. the general meeting, the Management Board and the business meeting. This implies that decisions concerning the involvement of Norsk Hydro in the project to which the representative refers in the state of Orissa in India are not a matter for the general meeting but for the board of Hydro and, where appropriate, the business meeting. Norwegian Hydro has indicated that an investment decision in the project in question is still a little ahead of time. The government assumes that Norwegian Hydro weighs all the ethical aspects around its bauxite project in India, and that the company uses the same ethical standards in India as at home. The government will continue to follow the development of the Uckal project, and we will, as before, keep in touch with Norsk Hydro about the project.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e866	I thank the Council of State for your answer. As he quite rightly points out, this is a matter that I have raised before. It is alarming when semi-state companies operate abroad in a way that I think is not satisfactory, and one can ask questions about. I expected that the Norwegian government would have a more active hold than just listening to how the Hydro government assesses the situation, and that it would actually make its own assessments, possibly having a review of the current situation. I would simply like to ask the Council of State: is it up to the Government itself to go into the matter by sending representatives down or making an assessment, without Hydro being involved in the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e875	I would like to underline what I said in my reply, that within the governance systems we have for a listed share company, the Government has an active attitude. We're busy with this. We see all the issues that are raised, and we exercise an active attitude towards Hydro in the way that it is natural to do so, not by using ownership in a general meeting – this is not a matter where it is possible to do so – but through the meetings and the ongoing dialogue that such a major owner as the state has with Hydro's management. I would like to stress that the government has its apparatus that follows what is going on, through our regular foreign service. Of course, it ensures that the Government is constantly up-to-date on the relationships around this project as around all other activities, not least controversial activities, in which Norwegian people or companies are involved abroad. I want to underline, as I also said in my answer, that Norsk Hydro has not yet made a decision on whether they are actually going to implement this project.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e887	I will ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘Norway is in favour of phase-out of nuclear power in the long term. As a member of the European Development Bank, EBRD, Norway will be involved in examining an application for loans to complete two Soviet-designed nuclear power plants in Ukraine, K2/R4. Will the Council of State ask Norway’s representatives in the EBRD to act in accordance with their official policy and vote against such a loan?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e896	The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the EBRD, has not yet submitted proposals for any participation in the financing of the completion of the K2/R4 power plants in Ukraine. The matter may arise in the course of the spring in formal proceedings under the auspices of the EBRD. The K2/R4 project is an initiative of the G-7, the EU Commission and Ukraine to replace the power loss in the event of the decommissioning of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. If the EBRD participates in the K2/R4 project, the Bank will be one of many sources of funding. The EBRD has spent a long time carrying out a very thorough investigation of the project and has followed a line of transparency in the matter. A number of reports written by independent consultants and expert groups commissioned by the EBRD are publicly available. The reports shall analyse, inter alia: safety aspects of the K2/R4 project, environmental impact and costs compared to alternative solutions. I would like to await the submission of a formal project proposal from the EBRD before the matter is dealt with on the Norwegian side. Our representative on the EBRD board will then be instructed in line with Norway's official position on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e910	It was a relatively eye-catching response the Council of State now gave. We had a similar situation in 1995, when it was also relevant for the EBRD to support a nuclear project in Eastern Europe. Then Lars Sponheim said the following to the newspaper Bergen's Official Journal, on 18 February 1995: ‘If there is something for which money should be spent, nuclear power stations should be closed down and nuclear power replaced by other energy sources. It's reprehensible to spend money on this. Financing the EBRD nuclear power plant, Norway must assess the entire EBRD cooperation’» Will not the Council of State Sponheim contribute to Norway's association with the Netherlands and Austria and already at that time declare that we are opposed to this project?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e920	My answer was definitely not eye-catching. It is obvious that this must be so, because no proposal has yet been made on the financing of the EBRD for the completion of these power plants. I stand firmly on the points of view I have expressed. I still mean the same thing. But one gets to take the factors in the order they're taken. A suspension of any participation in the financing from the EBRD must be provided. Then the Norwegian Government will have this on its table. Then we will decide on this, and on that basis instruct our board member in EBRD.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e935	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e942	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘The Ministry has changed the activity requirement of the vessel quota system in Group I cod fisheries with retroactive effect. This means that a number of boats lose their vessel allowances, because they were not aware of the new criteria and have to enter the Group II scheme where the quotas are very limited. The fishermen who have been hit find this extremely unfair. Will the Council of State reconsider the decision that the amended activity requirement should be retroactive?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e951	I would first like to point out that the activity requirement in cod fishing was introduced on the basis of industry proposals. An important element in the regulation of the coastal fleet in cod fishing is the division of groups I and II. Group I vessels are those that have had cod fishing as an important basis by documented catch. Vessels with less catching activity to which reference is made shall have access to participation in Group II. The purpose of the system of an activity requirement was that ships with a low share of the Group I quota should lose the right to participate in the Group. Thus, vessels that lose the right to participate in Group I due to lack of activity will still be able to fish in Group II. Furthermore, I would like to point out that the conditions for participation in the fishing for cod with conventional gear are laid down for one year at a time. The requirement for participation in cod fishing is laid down in Section 6 of the Act of Participation. Legal investigations into this provision have concluded that one cannot rely on continuing the same conditions year after year. It is therefore a prerequisite that one should not be able to speculate in maintaining the participation of Group I by fishing marginally above the 10 pst. rule applicable to participation in the 1998 fisheries. In view of the decline in the Norwegian Arctic cod population, it was at kgl. the resolution of 4 December 1998 decided to tighten up the activity requirement for the current year. The claim was made that the owner must have delivered at least 15 pst. of its quota for cod in 1997 or 1998 in order to participate in Group I. This provision was made for 1999 and will not have retroactive effect. However, the industry stated that the requirement of 15 pst. activity should only apply to fishing in 1998 and not in 1997 — this is justified by the fact that the fishermen have acted after the rule of 10 pst. activity in 1997 would be continued in 1999. In addition, it has been shown that the 1997 maximum quotas were at a record high level. After an assessment of what has come to light, I have decided to change the requirement for participation in Group I in 1999, by providing the owner with at least 10 pst. of the 1997 or 15 pst cod quota. of the 1998 cod quota.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e968	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was a positive news he could tell the Storting today. Obviously, as it was, the Group II participation would dramatically increase, and it would exacerbate the possibility for those who have been based on fishing in Group II, by the fact that there would be a lot more participation in this group. It will be without increasing allowances for Group II boats, so it is clear that quotas had to be transferred, while transferring a number of boats from Group I to Group II. So here the council had to do something, and I understand that he did, because the activity requirement has been lowered to 10 pst. for 1997 and 15 pst. of 1998. I'm assuming that it will give a verdict, and I'm asking that this be followed up, so that the transition to Group II doesn't get so big that no one in this group gets anything.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e975	The maximum quotas for Group II vessels will normally be above the minimum rule for Group I, so that the transition from Group I to Group II for those vessels with little activity in cod fishing does not really mean a reduction in the fishing opportunities they have had historically. In the case of sufficient allowances for Group II, it will be evaluated on an ongoing basis. Although a so-called basic quota has been set for Group II boats, this will be seen in the context of the evolution of fishing beyond the year for those vessels with their basic quota in Group I.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e985	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries: «In the Royal Resolution of 5 February 1954, the Act of 8 July 1949 on the production, transport and placing on the market of baits granted monopoly for all sales of different types of baits in the three northernmost counties to S/L Fish Agnverkehrs. Has the Council of State agreed that it is now appropriate to consider whether this monopoly is a necessary means of fulfilling the objectives of the law, ‘to ensure a rational and sound supply of bait’?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e994	The Code on the Production, Transport and Movement of Agn, to which the representative Løvik refers, regulates the placing on the market of bait in Northern, Troms and Finnmark. The background to legal regulation was the long-standing problems of the 1930s and 1940s in ensuring the smooth supply of bait at stable prices to North Norway. Since 1949, the law has remained unchanged, and minor changes have been made to the regulation. When the scheme has remained essentially unchanged for so many years, it seems to me that this is due to the termination of the scheme in the fishing industry. However, recent regulatory pressures have been increasing. The S/L Fishermen's Agn supply, which manages the regional monopoly, has asked the Ministry, in an enquiry last harvest, to use more resources to ensure compliance with the legislation on bait supply. The two main options for which the legislation currently provides room are either to oblige the Directorate of Fisheries to carry out checks in this area or to report alleged breaches of the legislation to the police. In this case, the use of the Directorate for Fisheries's resources for such tasks would have to lead to a re-priority to current resource use, a re-priority I find difficult to implement, given the many urgent tasks that the Directorate for Fisheries already has. If you choose the second option, to report a police offence, it will be up to the police and the prosecution to give priority to such and other tasks. Before taking a position on the various questions raised by this case, I have found it necessary to carry out a thorough review of the existing legislation, including: to clarify the boundaries between the placing on the market of baits subject to the monopoly and the placing on the market of baits which fall outside. The reason for this is the significant structural changes that have occurred in the fishing industry since the adoption of the law and that also affect the movement of bait. This work is now under way in the Department. Depending on the conclusions here, it is appropriate to further assess whether current legislation is appropriate to fulfil the purpose of the law or whether changes are needed in this field. The rational and sound supply of bait is as important today as it was when the regulation was established, but because of the work already in progress in the ministry, I will not, at this stage, decide whether the existing regulatory system should be revised or whether the current regulatory system will continue in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1010	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am pleased that the Department will now take a thorough review of the legislation here. We're talking about a market of several thousand tons a year. As the councils were also involved, there have been major structural changes in the 50 years since the laws came into force. What I fear is that the monopoly we have today will be able to inhibit efficient transport and efficient marketing and lead to higher prices. The first question I want to ask as a follow-up is: When does the Council expect the work on the review to be completed? The second concerns relations with foreign fishermen, because after the Ministry of Fisheries, this monopoly will also cover supplies to foreign fishermen, which I think is particularly doubtful. I'm not sure if this will be the framework of the EEA rules, but both when it concerns the intentions of the law and when it applies to the international agreement, I'm in doubt about the debt in this area. I would like to know how the current Council of State views this, and whether deliveries to foreign fishermen are also covered by this monopoly?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1021	On the first question, when the review of the monopoly will be completed in the ministry, it is difficult to answer it exactly. We have actually prioritised this work, but before concluding it, some communication with the fishing industry and their organisations is required to identify the issues that arise in connection with regulatory changes. What's important to include in this picture is that especially North Norway has a lot less fishing weather, which is a little out of all colors, and it's important that the line fleet that operates on the beings is secured bait in a proper way, both in terms of price and quality. So that has to be an important part of the assessments. With regard to the definition of what falls within and what falls outside the monopoly, it has not been fully clarified either, as EEA legislation has entered into the picture. But initially the monopoly was meant to be comprehensive, but it is possible that international rules make it necessary to look at the boundaries here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1033	I will ask the Minister for Fisheries the following questions: ‘Contracting approaches to fishing boats are an important state measure to bring about a renewal of the fishing fleet. The coastal/sea fishing fleet needs to build new boats, and the distribution of resources is required to be equally distributed between different types of boat and between the south and north of the country. At the last assignment there were 11 seekers from More and Romesdal and southwards, and a vessel was given permission. They seem to go to the northernmost states. Does the Council of State mean that he distributes funds for the renewal of the fishing fleet in a fair manner?"
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1042	State involvement in investments involving the renewal of the fishing fleet has been a necessity for a satisfactory rate of renewal. This is not a specific situation for the Norwegian fishing industry. The EU provides significant support through its regional arrangements. It should also be admitted that the Norwegian schemes should perhaps be better and more flexible from year to year. After the contract support was taken out by the government of Jagland, the government in which I am a member received 75 million. kr for the scheme for 1998. For the current year, it is not a contract grant scheme. The scheme is administered by the State Enterprise and Regional Development Fund for 1998. In recent years, there has been a large increase in the demand for contracting grants. In 1998, the SND received an application amount corresponding to the payment of contracting grants of more than 200 million. kr. In a situation of limited resources, there is therefore a need for tight policy priorities in relation to the use of funds. When granting grants, the SND shall base the overall fisheries policy guidelines of the Ministry of Fisheries on the use of the instruments in relation to the fisheries and aquaculture industry. The 1998 Guidelines state that the SND shall take into account the following priorities for the award of contracting grants: coastal and bankline vessels between 15 and 34 m shrimp trawlers and combined shrimp and cod trawlers capable of fishing in ice-filled waters projects ensuring raw material for industry in priority areas replacement of older vessels 50 pst. of the subsidy framework for projects in the three northernmost countries: In 1998, contracting grants were paid to vessels less than 34 m in the north for a total of 14.5 million. kr and in the south for 6,5 million. kr. In the case of vessels over 34 m in the north, contracting fees were paid for a total of 25.4 million. kr and in the south for 28,7 million. kr. This gave a percentage distribution of 53 pst. in the north and 47 pst. in the south. Caution has been provided in the use of state funds for renewal within fleet groups where the economy facilitates renewal without State incentive. In this context, I refer you to the unit quota scheme within the ring-fleet fleet, which provides incentives to renew this fleet group. However, the ring-fleet fleet is not excluded from the scheme. Against this background, I believe that the priorities underlying the award of contracting subsidies for 1998 are fair, based on the frameworks set at the disposal and the political leadership given.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1075	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. For a competitive industry such as fishing, it is clear that if we are to meet the challenges internationally with a good, sound economy, good competitiveness and market fitment, we need a modern sea and coastal fleet in Norway. Now that the state's permission to contract support is reduced to 50 million. for 1999 through the SND, it is important that not the one type of boat is given priority over others, for example. The western fleet is being built while the coastal fleet continues to grow. When the new rules for the allocation of funds for this year are in place, I asked the Minister for Fisheries to consider a fair distribution between the parts of the country. I am also pleased with what the Minister for Fisheries said in his reply that the ring-fleet fleet should not be excluded from the SND allocation. I have a sample from Sunnmøre, where since 1996, a fisherman actually got a five-time discount from SND before being allowed to replace an old ringnet trawl. This one is now waiting for renewal, and it's urgent.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1084	As my first response showed, the amount of applications went far beyond the funds made available. The amount of the application involved a need for funds of 200 million. kr, while the allocation was 75 million. DKK for 1998. The Ministry of Fisheries does not deal with individual matters. The SND has been added to make the business assessments in the projects that are granted support and loans from them. It's in line with Storting's orders. In the current year, a total of 50 million have been allocated. DKK directly above the State budget and EUR 18 million. kr over the fisheries agreement for measures to renew the fishing fleet. Due to the small resources involved, they will be set aside as a contribution to the confederation of vessels, both as a pure mastering system and as a subsidy scheme for vessels taken out of the fishery in connection with a change to another vessel.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1096	A new question to the Minister for Fisheries: ‘The allocation of women’s rights and competences for 1999 is 12 million. krones. The aim of this scheme is to strengthen women’s situation in the fishing industry and in fisheries-dependent coastal communities. A correct objective is also to make more girls choose fishing vocational training, also to provide a basis for increased participation and participation in the fishing industry. How will the Council of State contribute to the achievement of this objective?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1105	In order to achieve the objectives of the women’s measures, the Ministry of Fisheries has reduced the Women’s Selection of Fisheries, which manages the traditions and has to follow up the Action Plan for Gender Equality in the Fisheries Industry. The Women's Committee cooperates with the joint board of competence of the fisheries industry to ensure that the women's perspective is maintained in the overall process of empowerment. The main areas of action for women’s actions are competence building, establishment, information and mobilization in fisheries-dependent coastal districts. To give more people the choice of fisheries training, the selection works with recruitment to the industry at all levels. A recruitment program has been launched with actions from kindergarten to further education. There will be a conscious effort to reach the girls in this work. Local communities, schools, administration and business must work together in the recruitment work. The Ministry of Fisheries also cooperates with other departments to promote entrepreneurship. In order to increase participation and participation in the fishing industry, work needs to be done both to increase the skills of the girls and to make the industry benefit from the competences of the girls. For many girls it is important to be able to take education and training without having to move away to school. There must be provision that is specially made for girls. The majority of those who take the right education today are girls. It is therefore important that the activities relate to newly-educated girls or girls in education. The girls need to see that there are many interesting professional opportunities in the industry. Women must be visible, e.g. by marking the 1999 District Women's Year. It is necessary to facilitate the entry of women who wish to enter into fishing rights and of women who are already in the industry. Here I would like to refer to the establishment project for women in the fishing industry, which aims to give more women the opportunity to establish new projects within the fisheries industry and to contribute to a more varied labour market in the fisheries communities before discrimination, when it relates to existing enterprises involved in the processing of seafood, and to enterprises wishing to invest in product development. I am very busy strengthening our cooperation with SND in such projects, in order to ensure the best possible coordination and exploitation of the collective instruments. The fishing industry is man-dominated and characterized by traditional division of labour. It's a big challenge to get the industry to recruit girls and make use of their skills. Organisations in the industry take part in the women's selection and the Board of Competences, and in this way they are involved in and decide which actions should be prioritised. I think participation from the industry is crucial to the impact of the measures and to the goals we have seen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1122	I thought that the Minister for Fisheries was committed to very many positive measures to correct the situation we have today when it concerns women in the fishing industry. What is a little alarming is that there is generally little application from the continuing school for fishing training, and women are totally absent. It is true, as the Minister for Fisheries says, that it is better at the right school level. There are very few women on the organisation page. In the Nordic region, we have now been given a woman as the regional head of the fishing industry. It seemed to me to be happy, but there are too few women with it. Wages and salaries are also too low for industry workers, working hours are often difficult, and the environment is also difficult for some enterprises. I agree with what the Council of State finally said, that the fishing industry is very man-dominated, but it is also very conservative. When the Minister for Fisheries gives his lectures, both in the organisations and at the fisheries industry's annual meeting, I hope he will address this issue. I think he'll cut it big.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1133	Recruiting better from the women’s side of the fishing industry has been a priority area for several years. But you could say that you have not succeeded as well as you would have liked. What seems to be the situation of the fishing industry in general, and as the representative of Kaland pointed out, is that the application for secondary education may also pose a risk to the general recruitment of the industry. I can say it this way: we have already raised that question with the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research, and we are working together to see how we can better adapt secondary education to the freedom of action that young people must have in relation to the fishing industry, in order to try to get there and set up their education against it. In the big news that is now being finalized in Stortinget, we have specifically addressed higher-level research and education, targeting the fishing industry, and I think therefore we will have very many interesting projects in the future that can be marketed against youth and recruitment to the industry. Of course, we will give priority to this work when the Storting has completed the notification. I therefore believe that both the Stortinget, the Government and the industry can contribute to a better search for fisheries-oriented education at all levels.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1142	We'll then answer question 26.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1148	This question, from Grete Knudsen to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries, who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1151	I will ask the Minister for Research at the Minister for Fisheries the following questions: ‘The Marine Research Institute in Bergen has been deprived of research responsibility for coastal resources from City and northwards, despite the existence of a cooperation agreement between Tromsø and Bergen. Why is this change happening now, prior to the announced research communication, which would ensure an overall assessment?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1160	The case deals with division of labour and cooperation in relation to administrative tasks to which the Institute of Marine Research and Fisheries research receives direct grants from the Ministry of Fisheries to carry out. The question has no direct link or relevance to the work of the Research Communication, but is a matter for the Minister of Fisheries who is responsible for the management of the marine resources. Fisheries research is a limited liability company that carries out specific administrative tasks for the Ministry of Fisheries, while the Institute for the Exploration of the Sea, which also carries out administrative tasks, is directly under the responsibility of the Ministry. The current framework agreement for cooperation between these institutions was concluded in 1991 and there has long been a need for clearer definition of the management tasks and clarification of institutional advisory responsibilities. The Ministry of Fisheries has therefore, in consultation with the institutions, assessed work sharing and cooperation between them. The conclusions are based mainly on past division of labour and the recordings made by the institutions. The sharing of the advisory responsibility for the coastal resources of City is linked, inter alia, to: that the dividing line between the management areas of the Barents Sea and the North Sea is at City, or at 62° north. It is therefore logical to provide one research institution with the advisory responsibility for the whole administrative area north of Town for local populations in the cod species. Another objective of the division of responsibilities is to finance with the research resources and to achieve a rational and logical division of labour between Bergen and Tromsø. It must be stressed that there is a significant research activity and competence in the environment in Tromsø, both at Fisheries Research, the University of Norway's fishing school and the Norwegian Polar Institute. It is also an objective to maintain the necessary research in Tromsø for the sake of the right fishing training there. I am very concerned that the total amount of research resources is being used in the best possible way. It is therefore a clear premise on my part that the Marine Research Institute and Fisheries Research exchange data and results, and that they have good cooperation between themselves and with other research institutions. On this basis, I have asked the Marine Research Institute and Fisheries Research to set up a joint forum to further develop cooperation in resource research and advice.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1173	: I thank the Council of State for the answer. As far as fisheries and marine research are concerned, and as far as management is concerned, there has always been a close relationship between the Bergen and Tromsø environment, which has had a major impact on the perception of our common and overall fisheries policy. The North-South relationship is always latent, and that is exactly what has made the agreed agreement so important. Does the Minister for Fisheries think that the changes he has now made are in line with the agreed agreement concluded between Bergen and Tromsø?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1182	: The overall responsibility for the fisheries management and management of the research-oriented part lies with the Ministry of Fisheries. We must ensure that the institutions within our budget areas work effectively and cooperate well, and that, for the sake of resources, a proper allocation of tasks is made. So far, fisheries research in Tromsø has carried out considerable research on precisely the coastal resources for which they have now been responsible in the northern administrative area. They have also carried out significant research tasks on marine mammals, which we have also withdrawn and will draw up new cooperation limits. The fact that fisheries research in Tromsø has been given a management responsibility for coastal resources in respect of cod species will continue to require close cooperation with the research institute in Bergen, which will be involved in the work on stock assessments, through the model work they have started. I am a little surprised that this matter has got such dimensions. Both institutions have met in the ministry, and there is agreement on this distribution. In the department we have received enquiries from groups of employees and from the municipality of Bergen. We've noticed that, and we're going to have a meeting with the municipality of Bergen about it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1192	This question, from the representative of Leif Lund to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1195	‘In the oral question procedure in Stortinget on 3 February 1999, Councillor Queseth Haarstad said that much of the cause that municipalities are struggling with the local economy is the earmarking and detailed management that is being run against the local government sector. What are the earmarked offers and detailed management that will be changed by the Council of State?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1202	I will, on behalf of the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs – in her absence – give the following answers: In my 1998 report on local democracy, I addressed the impact on the municipalities of designated schemes and detailed provisions in laws and regulations. A proposal launched in the presentation, which is now being followed up by the Ministry, is that from the year 2000, we launch a four-year trial, where 20 municipalities will have a scheme in which earmarked grants are awarded as framework grants. The point of this attempt is to provide us with knowledge of the priorities of the experimental municipalities in relation to other municipalities. We are also keen to see whether local democracy is vitalized as a result of the experiment. A recent invitation has been sent to the municipalities to participate in the experiment. Further information about the trial plan came back to me in the municipal economic proposition in May. In addition, as a rule, the Ministry will review the earmarked grants with a view to promoting any proposals for inclusion in the income system by the Government. This is also a case for the municipal economicproposition for 2000. In addition, work is now to be undertaken on reviewing the legislation applicable to the local government, with a view to reducing the State requirements involving unnecessary bindings. This work is part of the ‘Simplifying Norway’ programme. With regard to a very topical issue, which concerns the designation, detailed management and problems of the local economy, I would remind the representative Lund that the government in the draft state budget would give municipalities the opportunity to be allocated state resources by sea if they had problems with the local economy, and therefore would have difficulties in meeting the assumptions that were made. The Government proposed that the State: «by virtue of the financial situation of each municipality, be able to assess in particular the activity requirements required for the allocation of earmarked funds». This possibility of facilitating detailed State claims towards municipalities was not endorsed by the Stortinge when examining the 1999 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1220	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is clear that it is difficult for the Minister of Fisheries to enter into a dialogue with one from the municipal fraction in relation to the local economy. I understand. The reason for my question is that I feel that the Council of State Queseth Haarstad is trying to create a party political discussion about the local economy by producing it differently from it. What the government did in the budgetary agreement with the Right and the Advance Party was that they also granted 50 million. kr extra to primary schools, as a district measure, and that is positive. But there were also funds that were kind of detailed against municipalities that had poor finances – just as an example of detail management. I thank the Council of State for the answer and will come back to this matter when the Minister of State returns.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1232	This question, from Torbjørn Andersen to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Social Affairs who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1235	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘The Swedish Municipal Council conducted a survey in 1998 showing that employees feel more positive about working in private rather than municipal care for the elderly. Those who were asked pointed out that working in a private company was far more motivating than working in the municipality. The reason was, among other things, that the personnel policy was significantly better in the private companies. Private employees also believed that patients were better off in a private care facility. What is the opinion of the Council of State on this survey?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1244	In 1998, the Swedish Municipal Council carried out an investigation among its members to find out what private elderly care providers meant by adding conditions, working conditions, development and quality of care. The study was funded by the Swedish Municipal Workers' Association and six private companies that run care and care services. The study compares municipal and private activities and uses both qualitative and quantitative methods. Questions are asked about adding to seven private enterprises divided into 14 different service locations within the care services. The report points out that the results of the investigation should be handled with caution. The Swedish Municipal Council has summarised the results that have been obtained. It turned out to be something else. that they did not consider there was any difference in the quality of the supply in private and public activities. In relation to their own conditions of addition and their own work situation, positive and negative aspects were identified. It is pointed out that public governance provides a safe and secure workplace and that one has clear work tasks. Of the negative aspects of public operation, it is noted that it is generally difficult to influence the system, and that it can act without initiative. With regard to services run by private individuals, the following positive aspects emerged: a get more responsibility, can take initiative and see health, and there are not so many organizational members and managers. The negative side indicates that there is increased stress and that the work situation is uncertain. In a comment on the study, the Swedish Municipality Association points out that they have long argued that the public enterprise needs to be improved and that the quality needs to be improved both for users and for adding them. In this context, they have taken the initiative to develop a model for a different organisation of public activities, as an alternative to putting out competition. The model, which comes under the name "Come On", takes up the most important elements of private activity. In particular, if you want an effective organisation, you have to do something that is pleasing to human beings, where you take care of and exploit your staff skills. In the care sector in Norway too, there are many tasks that need to be solved before we can say that we have a service where both users and users are fully satisfied. By way of exception: ‘Action plan for health and social workers 1998-2001. Direct the person in the right place’ and ‘Action plan for the care of the elderly. Security - respect - quality will be replaced by a range of tools to strengthen service provision. Few sectors of society are as dependent on staff as the care and care services. A monthly lift is now being made to increase their competence in this sector. It is a major challenge for municipalities to facilitate their own activities so that they can benefit from their competences and to include them in the further development of service provision. It is thus close to encouraging municipalities to use their powers rather than to deploy large resources to prepare and implement competitive outsourcing of services. The study from Sweden can be of direct benefit to those municipalities that consider that they have a better service.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1265	I thank you for your answer. It might have been a little bit difficult to figure out what the council thought about this. But I think we should soon get rid of the misunderstanding that all the care work that had to be done in the private sector in the public sector is an abomination, whereas it is almost a blessing when the same tasks are carried out under the control of a public monopoly. It's not like that, and more and more people get it. More and more experience has shown that postponing competition and privatisation and private items have a number of advantages over public monopolies. We have competition law in society. And why should competition policy not also apply to the public sector in most areas? Is it not time for the public sector to be subject to the same competition rules as the private sector, precisely in order to promote efficiency and quality requirements? The potential for it in today's monopoly situation is very great, and it will benefit users and taxpayers. And then I ask, can it be better than that?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1272	Let me say that what I said in my first answer: My opinion about that investigation is that it will be of direct benefit to those municipalities in Norway that are currently looking at their own business, both with regard to how they can organise it better than today, and how they can provide better services. We could probably have different approaches here to what should be a public responsibility, and what can be left to private activity. I stick to the law that is in place today, where the municipalities on the one hand have a great degree of freedom, but where they do not have the power to outsource administrative tasks and exercise imagery. From the Government's side, we will address the issue of the postponement of care services in the municipal economicproposition for the year 2000 and in a separate communication that will come in autumn 1999, care 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1289	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1295	I have the following questions for our Minister of Agriculture: «The Ministry of Agriculture opposes the use of nesting on free-range pigs based on the Animal Protection Act § 2. Pigs without a ring dig inside the food huts and out into the terrain and this leads to significant pig mortality. The protection of animals and the regional veterinarian is positive for the use of nesting because free-range pigs have a freer and better life with less disease and minimal medical use. Will the Council of State amend the legislation so that the form of operation can be made possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1304	It's not easy to be a pig. Section 13 of the Animal Protection Act prohibits ‘ringing pigs or other painful acts to prevent them from rotating in the soil’. Our principle is that one should not interfere with animals to take care of a particular environment. It is therefore also prohibited to cover the tail on pigs in order to prevent tail biting and cut the beak on poultry in order to prevent cannibalism. The ministry favours the outdoor pig team, but believes it is right that a pig that goes out gets the opportunity to rot in the ground according to its natural instincts. This is also in accordance with Section 2 of the Animal Protection Act, which says that one should take into account the instinct and natural cravings of the animals. It may also be stated that the Animal Ethics Council, the Norwegian pig Council, the Health Service for Pigs and the Animal Ombudsman are all opposed to nesting on pigs. In Sweden, the problem of pigs digging pits inside the cabins without nesting has been solved by means of support in the cabins. For these reasons, I do not wish to give regulations which derogate from the prohibition in Section 13 of the Animal Protection Act.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1315	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The answer means that it is impossible to produce abroad at Trond Refve, who has addressed this matter. The surface of the cabins is not a solution, it will give greater air humidity and the wrong climate, with therefore great piglets mortality. Refve – who has carefully examined the matter, because he is serious – wants to stand on his own legs, with his own production, and he will of course not ask for things from the authorities if there is no reality behind it. In large parts of Europe, this is acceptable with the use of easy nesting. Animal welfare subjects, district veterinarians, animal protection, etc. Not only in Norway, but across Europe, this is positive. The animal welfare of the pigs by having a free outdoor life is greater than the disadvantage of having a light ring in the nose in relation to normal housing forms in pig production. So it's about common sense. So I'm going to ask the Council of State one more time: won't he consider granting exemptions from the Animal Protection Act?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1324	When the Minister of Agriculture has taken his position, he has done so on the basis of the legislation that the Stortinget has laid down, to which I also referred in my first post. Otherwise, I just want to add that in relation to animal welfare, animal husbandry ethics, the general trend is that one has a more restrictive attitude to intervene that makes it impossible for animals to behave in their normal way as is their nature. It's also behind the position that I've taken, and that I've expressed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1334	I allow myself to address the following questions to the Minister for Agriculture: ‘It is widely agreed from both research teams, environmental and agricultural authorities that salmonids produced in farms represent a serious threat to the wild salmonids and sea trout populations. Will the Council of State address the situation and put in place national regulations to ensure that farmers can be subject to coordinated regional joint closures in all plants irrespective of limit values for lice and, where appropriate, where can this be implemented?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1343	As Nymo's representative points out, there is a broad consensus on the seriousness of the salmon industry's salmon industry. There is also broad agreement between veterinary, fishery and environmental authorities and the industry on the measures taken to combat the problems. The legislative mandate of the representative, Nymo, is in practice already in place today. Work on the national action plan against salmon fever started in the autumn of 1996 and the first plan was adopted in February 1997. As part of this work, the Ministry of Agriculture amended the regulations on 30 April 1998 in order to allow the district veterinarian to lay down regional rules for the control of salmonids. In addition to the summer of 1998, these regional regulations were put in place in all farming areas. The regulations require the breeder to regularly examine and record the presence of lice. In addition, the farmer may be required to degenerate when the maximum levels recommended by the professional community during the consultation round are exceeded. The district veterinarian may, on the basis of the regulations, impose synchronised regional closures of the facilities. I record that the representative Nymo wants the breeder to be subject to a defrosting regardless of limit values. To this end, I would like to state that there is a technical agreement that the proper use of medicinal products means that the application of demisting must be related to the actual presence of lice in the plants. In the event of an infringement of the rules, the breeder may be fined daily in such a way as to make it more expensive for the breeder not to pay the costs of carrying out a defrosting. Requirements for the control of the presence of lice have also been included in the new operational and disease regulation recently established by the Ministry of Fisheries and the Ministry of Agriculture. The current winter and spring are the first season that the regulations are active. The authorities must first gain experience with the legislation they have given before considering any changes. Any national regulation must be capable of providing room for assessment on the basis of regional conditions, such as the quantity of farmed fish and the presence of wild populations. The consideration of wild stocks of salmonids suggests that the requirements should be particularly stringent in areas with a high level of farmed salmon.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1360	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The problem is that the action plan is based on voluntary farming. The current legislation on the control of salmonids authorises the animal health authorities to impose an excessive level of defoliation on farmers. Experience from Trøndelag shows that in order to succeed in effective leaching, it is entirely dependent on the implementation of a coordinated leaching process during the cold seawater period of all farms in a region with leachate in its facilities. If some farms with salmonids do not participate in a coordinated leaching, the total effect for the whole region will be reduced. It will not be possible to achieve the long-term objective of the action plan by the year 2001 with the current rules on detoxification. We now have the situation that as the grass grows, the cow dies.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1371	The last thing would be dramatic. As far as Nymo is concerned, I would like to say that the Minister of Agriculture takes very seriously the problem that exists here. This shows that we are constantly facing new challenges by getting new industries, such as: in aquaculture with respect to the wild fish already in the sea. This requires close follow-up through legislation and legislation and through the work of the veterinarians. Of course, I want to keep an eye on whether what we now have is sufficient, and I might come back if we need closer follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1381	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Agriculture the following questions: ‘The Ministry of Agriculture, by letter of 2 November 1998, informed Knut Gausi of Åraksbø in the Setesdalen that it would not be possible to reverse the Ministry’s decision of 27 June 1996, which would mean that the State would benefit from its right of pre-emption and set aside a voluntary agreement on the purchase of property. The case is now before the courts. What is the reason why the Council of State will not meet the wishes of Gausi to try to reach a settlement in order to avoid, if possible, a new round in the courtroom?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1390	Knut Gausi applied in the spring of 1995 for a concession to acquire gnr. 26 bn 2 in the municipality of Bygland. The property was to be used as additional land. The municipality recommended the exercise of State pre-buying rights and the County Agriculture Board decided to exercise the pre-buying right. The decision was appealed against. On 27 June 1996 the Ministry decided not to accept the complaint. The decision was justified by the distance between the cultivated land and the concession property. The use of pre-purchases would benefit from operational and agronomic benefits. It was also demonstrated that Gausis’ operations would require significant investments, while land seekers would be able to operate the concession property without additional investments. Gausi then brought the decision to an end. Gausi lost the case in the city court. The verdict is appealed by Gausis' lawyer to the Lawyers' Court, and the main proceedings will take place at the beginning of March this year. Knut Gausi addressed me on 25 August 1998 in which he asked me to reconsider the concession case and meet him at a settlement, claiming significant changes in the property and operating structure of several land seekers. As I understand this, Gausi wants the state to reverse its decision to exercise the right of pre-emption to the property. The Ministry has been in contact with soil seekers to find out whether the actual conditions have changed. One cannot see that there have been any changes in the situation of soil seekers which indicate that there is reason to reverse the decision. The case should now have its final decision in the judiciary. Knut Gausi was briefed by the Department's letter dated 2 November 1998.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1405	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State. Now it is almost every two working days that the country is making use of the coercive paragraph and neglecting private contracts for the purchase and sale of properties. I am not here to mention the details of this case which, after all, stands for the trial. But in principle and in general, you might say that sometimes it's not the way to make a deal to get a case out of the world. With regard to the matter in question and the reference to the fact that things have not changed, I have to remind you that this is a strange old case, and as far as I can see, there are some soil seekers in this area who are operating in a completely different way today. Now I have also registered that this government has a slightly different attitude to this than the Labour Party government has had, you can see that in the statistics on the number of pre-emptive cases that the state has started. My supplementary question to the Council of State is: Isn't he willing in a case like this – to use a saying – to let mercy go too right?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1418	It is true that this is an old case, as has been pointed out, which dates back to 1996, and then under another state council and another government. Nevertheless, in the course of the procedure that has been followed later, my assessment has also been that the decision that was then taken was also correct in relation to this case. In general, I have to say that it is up to the administration to follow up the law that the Stortinge determines. It would be extremely difficult to practice this law if the procedure in individual cases, if necessary, were to be largely carried out in the main hall. Then, in my opinion, it will have to come as a distrust in relation to the practice of the law in place by the Department and the Council of State. I therefore do not think it right to go into the details of the matter. I understand the commitment of the representative who asked the question, and I also said earlier in another case that I was willing to look at it. The interpretation of that in retrospect I am a little surprised at.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1427	Questions 19-21, from the representatives of Inger Lise Husøy, Bjørn Hernæs and Jan Petter Rasmussen to the Minister of Justice, will be answered by the Minister of Justice, Prime Minister Jon Lilletun.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1434	I want to ask you the following questions: ‘Many Oslo restaurant workers work on slave contracts. In particular, ethnic restaurants have opportunities to obtain cheap labour from abroad by means of loopholes in the Foreign Affairs Act. According to Oslo Hotel and Restaurant Labors Association, the Foreigners Act is used to provide cheap labour for washing, cleaning and serving. Both the basis of the stay and the pay and working conditions are broken. What does the Council of State do to prevent this from happening?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1443	Work related to washing, cleaning and serving in restaurants is not a basis for immigration to Norway, i.e. no work permit is granted in Norway to carry out this type of work. In order for work in the restaurant industry to be a basis for immigration, a qualified type of work must be considered. For example, nationalities may include: obtain a work permit in accordance with the so-called specialist provision of the foreign regulation. This is not the case, for example. requiring the wage and working conditions to comply with applicable collective bargaining agreements, Regulations etc. This implies the addition of non-residents under the same conditions as domestic workers. However, I do not see it as the representative Husøy's question concerns this type of labour force. The Foreign Affairs Act otherwise requires that, as a general rule, non-residents who are to take up work in the country must have a work permit. If a foreigner works in Norway without the necessary work permit, this is illegal under the Foreign Affairs Act. If the relationship is revealed, the foreigner is at risk of expulsion or expulsion, while the employer is at risk of being fined for the relationship. Nordic citizens are exempt from the requirement of a work permit, which means that the foreign authorities cannot control the pay and working conditions they receive from employment in Norway. Foreigners covered by the EEA Agreement are authorised to do any work in Norway. Under the EEA Agreement, authorisation is required for them to be able to support themselves at work. In other words, Nordic citizens and non-residents covered by the EEA Agreement may come to the country and take, for example: washing, cleaning and serving work. Their pay and working conditions cannot then be further controlled by the foreign authorities. There are also a number of foreigners who have so-called general work permits in Norway. They, together with Norwegian citizens, form part of the so-called domestic labour supply, and can take any job in Norway without the foreign government being able to control their pay and working conditions. As with ‘usual Norwegian’ labour, the relationship between each employee and the employer will be regulated by rules other than those of the Foreign Affairs Act. On the basis of what I have explained here, I cannot see that the possible ugliness pointed out in the question is a consequence of a loophole in the Foreign Affairs Act. Any breach of the terms of the contract of employment for discharges employed in the restaurant industry will therefore have to be dealt with in the same way as for Norwegian citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1458	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I agree that this is not just about loopholes, but about direct breaches of the legislation we have. And the question is, what does the government do to detect breaches? In my opinion, it is only more control that is the way to go in order to detect breaches and prevent such conditions in Norwegian working life. The union that organizes people in this industry has between 500 and 600 secret members. It says a little about people, once they've come to the country, don't dare say that pay and contract terms are broken, because they're afraid to be sent home again. There are also a number of examples of non-qualifications, but pay and working conditions that are the point of letting them into the country by the employer. This also puts pressure on the serious part of the restaurant industry. So my question to the Council of State is, what will he do to expose the problem?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1469	I am pleased that the representative Husøy and I are some of the people that this is probably a violation of, and not a hole in, the law, which one could then change. Then, of course, it's a responsibility of the authorities to work to prevent crime from happening, or to find the crimes. Actually, this is in another department, it's the Ministry of Labour and Administration, but there's no answer to the question. It's, I think, so we generally have a job to do in relation to the laws and guidelines of employment contracts. Having a healthy labour market is a value for a society that we have to fight for. I want to deal with Work – and the Minister of Administration if there are other effective measures we can do that do not unnecessarily red tape the industry, and in this context it is clear that it is also useful to cooperate with the trade union.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1479	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: «Does the Council of State think that the country's main airport is a suitable place for excursions for prisoners with a serious criminal background, but which nevertheless are zones of open prison, and the Council of State agrees with the spokesman of the Ministry of Justice, who, in Dagsrevyen on 11 February 1999, tells us that the escape we have just experienced in connection with such an excursion is the price we have to pay for a liberal criminal policy?»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1486	Of course, it is regrettable when someone escapes, because it is the goal of criminal justice to execute the sentence without failure. The budget spends a lot of resources and attention on avoiding escapes, and has generally good results to point to. The use of open-ended housing as an instrument during the implementation of criminal sanctions was discussed in the Criminal Service Communication, St. reported. No 27 for 1997-98 chapters. 4.4.4 from page 36. The present scheme was presented and any changes were discussed. The nucleus of the position of the department can be summarised in the following quotation: ‘The experience shows that a large number of convictions can carry out the detention without specific security measures. Juveniles released after completion without a targeted and systematic exit must be assumed to have a worse basis for coping with crime-free living than those who have improved their social skills through different forms of care and individual arrangements. Open settlement is therefore an appropriate instrument for preparing the transition to freedom.» The Legal Affairs Committee's response to this can be seen in Innst. S. No 6 for 1998-99 on page 12. Here the majority, including the Right, says that they: «conceives that it is appropriate to provide for the possibility for all persons starting the settlement in a closed establishment to qualify for an open-circuit zone. The majority would stress the need to carry out individual assessments in relation to the motivation and suitability of individual convictions and the need for security when assessing open settlement’. And this is the core of the matter. We have learned that open settlement is a good tool when we are concerned that criminal enforcement should also contain rehabilitation elements. We also know that the level of failure is very low, but without absolute guarantees. In rehabilitation work, it is important to work systematically on the approach of prisoners to normal society. There are, among other things: Excursions and systematic training in general social behaviour are important. This is a systematic arrangement where officials are involved, and the instructions form part of a whole, the aim of which is a return to society. But given the places where excursions are added, I assume that the representative hereafter will agree that this responsibility must be assigned to the individual prison director and not to the detailed management of the department.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1507	Thanks for the answer. When it comes to the place of exorcism for criminals with a serious criminal background, I can't imagine any place less suitable than the country's main airfield. It's in the middle of the heart to get away to every edge of the country and abroad. So without detailing, it might have to be possible to whisper someone in the ear that the choice of places in this context seems unusually little well-chosen. Otherwise, of course, I am aware of and fully agree with what we said in the setting of the criminal health service message when it comes to compensation. It is also said that individual assessments must be made in relation to the individual convicted offender. And then I still ask the question: What do we do with prisoners who apparently think it is fun to fold ball into a hat with the Norwegian authorities and run ap with the Norwegian authorities through interviews while they are on duty? And: What reactions will the Council of State recommend, without detailed guidance, that one should act when, hopefully, one gets hold of the escape? If we do not take care of this liberal prison policy, we are in danger of being left out of view with the opinion, and then it will push forward a policy that goes against the direction that I believe both the Council of State and I want.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1516	As I believe the representative here understands, I will not discuss individual matters. In general, of course, I would like to agree with the representative herenæs that when someone escapes, it is clear that there is a need to exert pressure to get them back to reconciliation, and of course there must be consequences. We are quite a few of them about that. The term ‘liberal criminal policy’, which the representative Hernæs had in his question, was not used in the daily review. There was the point that when an open house was used as a rehabilitation facility, there is no guarantee that a failure would not happen. I think it's wise to say that the Right in a particular comment in the setting below has said: ‘... has noticed that prisoners who have been transferred through lockout in order to counter the end of a longer sentence in an open prison account for only a small proportion of escapes. This suggests that prison services carry out good safety and fitness assessments.’ What I mean is the total certificate that Right has well formulated here. But the representative here and I are some that when things go wrong, it's important to fix them.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1531	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘Do the Council of State consider it appropriate that the maximum required renovation/restructuring of Stavanger Circuit Prison is planned without toilets being designed on the cells?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1538	It is true that the design did not initially include toilets on existing cells, because this would result in higher costs for the project. The Ministry chose to give full priority to the rehabilitation of worn-out technical facilities, including a necessary increase in fire safety in Stavanger Circuit Prison. Secondly, it was important to extend the area of the prison, which has remained virtually unchanged since it was put into service in 1963. The content of the compensation has changed and increased requirements in relation to the work environment law mean that it is absolutely necessary to give priority to these types of extensions. Finally, I would also like to mention the need to increase prison security, where stricter requirements are being imposed in this type of facility today. Priorities in construction projects will always be difficult because they will necessarily be linked to costs. However, I can inform you that the Department has made a request to State Building if it is possible within the cost framework to re-priorities for toilets on part of the cells. The Ministry will follow this up as the project progresses.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1547	I thank you for the answer, although it was very little satisfactory, for not taking too hard in. Actually, I'm shocked that it's necessary to ask a question like this. We are in 1999, and then I took it as a matter of course that the toilets on the cells were inside the project itself. No prisons have been built/reformed in Norway in the 1990s without this being the case, and we are now building for the 21st century. We're not talking about luxury, we're talking about what's going on in hygienic conditions, both in relation to single prisoners on the cells it's about, and to prisoners in their entirety in prison, and not least about the working conditions of the employees in prison. I fully agree with the necessary priorities mentioned by the Council of State, but when he says that one assesses toilets in ‘part of the cells’, it is highly unsatisfactory. I strongly ask the Council of State to go back to the Department and make sure that this is converted before the scandal is a fact. If nothing happens to this, I will consider taking this up and following it through the committee or otherwise, based on the possibilities we have in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1558	Of course, it would have been inconceivable that, from the start, there had been a proper solution for all parts of the prison. At the same time, I would say that I am a very dramatic representative here. Of course, in the future, as they have received so far, prisoners will receive good assistance in relation to the hygienic needs they will have at any time. In relation to the discussion we have had about security in prison, about sufficient space for a good aftercare, about what we were dealing with in a previous question, about open reconciliation, etc. And the way to rehabilitate, I'd say that things should be seen in a context. As I said, it would have been inconceivable that everything was there from the start, but I also thought that it was taking well in here. But I'm going to bring the representative's call back, and we'll see what can be done.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1570	I have a question for the Minister of Transport. ‘In Tysfjord, Northern Ireland, there has been a growing fear that the expansion of the Køpsvikwegen, which was completed in 1992, may be the reason why the land moves under the hospital in the municipality. In the case of several road-related road-related accidents, questions have been raised about the road body’s basic studies prior to development. Does the Council of State consider that the basic road development studies are satisfactory?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1579	In the context of the development of Rv 827 through Kjøpsvik centre, the State Road Administration carried out basic studies for all areas where some geotechnical problems could be expected to arise. In particular, these areas are those of Kjöpsviken, where both basic refurbishment and extension studies have been carried out and a flooding against the tunnel cut on the other side of Kjøpsviken. The State Road Service has published three geotechnical reports covering these areas and has carried out the works in accordance with the measures described by them. Tysfjord municipality has not contacted Vegvesenet in Nordland regarding damage to the hospital in Kjöpsvik. I am therefore not aware of what kind of damage it might be about, or the extent of these. The distance between the hospital and the new road is approx. 80 meters at least. Mountain today will be found between the nursing home and the most extensive filling of new roundabouts. From this point of view, and in view of their total geotechnical knowledge of the area, Vegvesen assumes that there is very little likelihood that there will be any correlation between possible damage to the hospital and the road system from 1992. In addition, the Norwegian Road Administration will contact the municipality of Tysfjord so that they can look at the conditions in Kjøpsvik together. The Directorate of Roads is of the opinion that the basic studies carried out under the direction of the State Road Service are satisfactory and meet the need to plan and build roads with satisfactory safety. In the case of larger bulk masses that have passed in recent years, no clear link has been established between any deficiencies in the basic studies carried out and the possible causes of the scissors. For my part, I have no reason to doubt this assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1588	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is beneficial that he contacts the Nordland Road Office so that they can contact the municipality of Tysfjord about the question. There is obviously something wrong when the house is moving and you sometimes have problems getting up and down doors, so it's worrying. If the problem can be solved by finding out jointly the Nordland Road Office and the municipality, it is good. It's sometimes gone down. In Finneidfjord, we have had a great race that has also cost human lives. It is therefore important to know what to do before road development is implemented. If, for example: natural sewer tunnels underground become dense again, it can cause such things. I do not feel that the Council of State has given a satisfactory answer, but I hope that he will follow up what he has said.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1595	Although the municipality of Tysfjord has not contacted the Norwegian Road Office, and even though the road office for its part believes that they have done a good job and cannot see any connection, they will nevertheless contact the municipality to look at the conditions in Køpsvik, and you will see what they find out. As far as general investigations are concerned, it is my opinion that the Road Service is taking experience with it on an ongoing basis to see what they have to learn, and that the work is the same as I stated in my first answer, so I have no reason to question the Vegvesen assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1605	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The eastern line trains currently have an end station at Oslo Central Station due to the work on the Oslo Tunnel. When will the east line start going through the tunnel again?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1614	During the extensive track work on the Skøyen station in 1998 and the phase-in of the Oslo-Asker flight, the operation of localogens on the eastern line of the Eastfold Railway and the Gjøvik Railway through the Oslo Tunnel was suspended from 30 November 1997. The assumption was that these local trains would turn on Oslo S until the new stations at the National Theatre and Skøyen were completed with four tracks and the capacity of the Oslo Tunnel could be increased by approx. 50 pst. According to the plans, this capacity extension will be available from R.00:00, which will apply from the beginning of 2000. The railway undertaking will start the process of route allocation to this service end in May 1999. NSB BA states that no final decision has yet been taken on whether or not to resume the resumption of the local trains of the Gjøvik and the Eastern Line. However, the NSB will assess this in the context of its input into the planning of the R.00.1.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1623	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I think it was very little concrete. We know that when trains previously passed through the Oslo tunnel and further west, it meant a lot to everyone who commutes on the east line every day. What happens now is that they get more than half an hour longer travel time per. day(s) Many have then had to use a car to get to work in Oslo and further west. That's why this is quite urgent, and the Minister of Transport should also be concerned that with the way we're going to Oslo at E18, it's very important that the eastern line starts going through the tunnel again, so that more people can drive collectively. I'll encourage the Council of States to be a little bit more precise about when this will happen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1628	I can't or will not be more precise at this point in time – for two reasons. First of all, we need to know physically that all the works are going to start and that they're going to be done. Now it looks like it's going to be fulfilled, but we're going to have everything finally in place at the National Theatre Station. Secondly, of course, the schedule is related to how the NSB thinks about its entire arrangement, and so I don't want to go into the details right now. But I am familiar with the need to see public transport in the Oslo area in a wider context, and that context should include all the elements that the representative addressed. So the representative can expect me to take into account the issues she has raised in her question, in my further work on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1636	I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Transport: ‘There are plans for urban railways in several cities. On 11 February 1999, Stavanger presented a new and constructive report that really illustrates the potential for environmentally friendly track-based solutions in the north of Europe. What will be the contribution of the Council of State to ensuring that urban railway plans are implemented? If applicable, will the urban areas that have such plans be contacted to discuss concrete State contributions to a realisation?’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1645	In line with the distribution of responsibilities between levels of government, the State has overall responsibility for developing and establishing framework conditions for public transport. However, the county councils are responsible for prioritising public transport in the planning of the county. The state takes responsibility for local public transport in a number of ways, including: in the case of transfers of funds to county councils through the general framework grant, alternative use of public roads and tolls for investments in public transport infrastructure, and grants to such infrastructure in and around the major cities – the so-called major cities. In St.meld. No 37 for 1996-97, Norsk Road and Road Transport Plan 1998-2007, the Ministry of Transport proposed that the State Road Administration should also be given increased responsibility for public transport, particularly in relation to the major urban areas. The Communication also underlined that the Ministry of Transport aims to continue and strengthen efforts for public transport within the investment framework of the Road Budget. The Ministry of Transport, in a letter sent to all municipalities and the Municipality of Oslo in the spring of 1998, called for local work to be started on collective planning, and for the authorities in this work to benefit from the planning and investigation skills of the State Road Administration. For our major urban areas, concrete plans for the overall development of public transport are being worked out, with different urban railway plans being included. Most comprehensive is the planning for the forced development of public transport in Oslo and Akershus, the so-called Oslo package II, which will be presented to the Stortinget. Another important example concerns the proposal for a transport plan for Northern Ireland. As you know, this case is promoted for Stortinget. In accordance with the decision of the county council, the measures under assessment include a so-called urban development study. I would like to underline the importance of the existence of a sound overall planning basis for current collective actions, including urban railways. The state has more opportunities to contribute to funding. It is important that collective action is prioritised locally in the ordinary processes for the distribution of state resources, and not least that local commitment to prioritisation and funding of collective actions within the responsibility of local authorities is also demonstrated at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1660	I thank the Council of State for your answer. I thought there were many words and little concrete suggestions for action. That's my main challenge, because I understand that the Council of State is very committed to it, for example. noise problems and dust problems relate to cities, and the state clearly sees its responsibility to participate there. A solution is e.g. that one bets more on public transport, not least on rail. I had expected from the State Council for Transport in the Central Government, i.e. the Environmental Government, that one should be a little more offensive in relation to this. So I want to challenge the Council of State again: will the Council of State take concrete initiatives to help the local levels of government realize their plans?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1665	When I was general in the first answer, it was because there was reason to remember that in order to get solutions, it actually had to work together across the board. In that case, a State Council cannot act on the pulpit of the Storting as if there were no different levels of government. But once that is the case, I get first of all once again praise the municipalities of the North-Jären and Rogaland County Council of the North-Järplan, which is being treated in the Stortinget, because they show such a willingness for both overall planning and funding. Secondly, I would like to point out that before Christmas I took the initiative of an investigation into strengthening cooperation across administrative levels when it came to public transport. It was sent at the end of January to be consulted by the end of the period of consultation. In addition, I want to conduct another tour to the four largest urban areas to see how these processes are going, and to make sure that they actually happen in accordance with the letter that went out of the department last year. So I have a strong interest in this, but in order to get to the rift and hard work across the board, you have to be sure that it works together. Therefore, when I represent the state and the department here, I also had to stress that there must be such a willingness to be present locally. If there's such a will, you have something to talk about.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1673	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Bad conditions of transport are a major obstacle to both business and private life in East Agder. Only travelers from Vardø have longer travel time to Oslo than travelers from Arendal, who have to travel via Kristiansand. As a minimum, the Gold Button aerodrome at Arendal should be upgraded. This airstrip is currently not approved for general use. The need to upgrade this aerodrome is precarious. Does the Council of State have an understanding of the county's need for a smaller aerodrome in order to ensure a completely necessary infrastructure?’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1682	Travelers from Arendal today have a good collective travel offer, among other things. to Oslo by both express bus and train, in addition to a private car. It is not a goal in itself that travellers have to use aeroplanes, but that air transport is used where it represents the most efficient means of transport. Therefore, an overall assessment of the transport standard in the area suggests, in my opinion, that state resources should not be used for upgrading the Gold Button Airport. I would also like to point out that, within the relatively tight economic framework set by the State for airport investments of a different character, I do not consider state investment at Goldknopf Airport to be relevant, as it is much more urgent to solve at other airports. Finally, I would like to refer to processes in the preparation of the National Transport Plan, where local assessments and priorities for the next planning period will form the basis for assessments of the future distribution of means of transport. To the extent that the Gold Button Airport of local forces in this process is maintained as a priority area over other transport purposes, I will return to the issue when presenting the National Transport Plan.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1693	I guess I wasn't surprised by that answer, but I was disappointed, of course. We are realistic in the South, and in the case of the Gullknop airport, we see a gradual expansion, but once in the future it should be possible to enter the Norwegian short-haul network. There are 60,000 people 20-30 minutes from that aerodrome, and the total traffic situation in the county, if it doesn't get better, will be a serious threat to the business community in the future. We have to avoid that. The future requirements for accessibility and efficiency and rapid transport will be crucial for the willingness to establish businesses and jobs in the county. Today’s very time-consuming communication systems in East-Agder do not invite business start-ups. The Swedish Aviation Agency granted 55 million. kr for upgrading small aerodromes, such as Kjeller, Notodden, Jarlsberg and Rakkestad. It is not certain that these small airports will even need all that money. Will the Minister for Transport investigate whether Gold Button may be able to use any of these means if there is anything left of them? Can the Minister for Transport say anything if it is possible once in the future – if he looks at it – that the Gold Button can enter as part of the Norwegian Short Path Network?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1702	The 55 million. kr as the representative spoke about was what was intended to cover the need for small aeroplanes that were owned by Fornebu at the time of the closure of Fornebu. They are provided for that purpose. In this context, Gold Button Airport was not assessed for purely factual and obvious reasons, for it was not considered to meet the requirements that existed in that context. With regard to the general issues raised by the representative, the county council and, later, the Stortinget will have an outstanding chance of seeing transport investment in the context of the consideration of the national transport plan. Here it is suggested that links be drawn between transport on the road, on the road, on the sea and in the air. The East-Agder County Municipality has, of course, that possibility, has now had it and will have it again for the autumn, and the representative will have it when the matter comes to Stortinget next spring. I do not imagine that Gold Button Airport will be part of the Norwegian short-distance network in the closer part of the future that I can reasonably have any overview of.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1711	Question 26 has been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1717	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘There is a major shortage of skilled labour in primary school today. At the same time, we know that there are many of our new countrymen who have good teachers' qualifications from home, but who are not allowed to accept their education. What will the Ministry do to make use of this valuable competence in school?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1726	The question raised by the representative of Tingelstad concerns two key issues: the need for labour in the core and the use of migrant skills. Aspects relating to the need for labour in the training system will, as is well known, be presented to the Stortinget in the context of an action plan for recruitment to the teaching profession. In the case of the recognition of foreign teacher training, there are different schemes and agreements as liabilities. Agreements have been concluded between the Nordic countries and the EU/EEA countries to make these areas a common labour market. In order to obtain recognition as a learner in Norway, it is, as a general rule, sufficient for citizens of EEA countries to provide evidence demonstrating that one is qualified for the profession in their home country or in another EEA country. Where there are substantial differences in the duration or content of education, the applicant may be required to compensate for this in the form of professional experience or period of practice. For the recognition of teacher training from outside the EEA territory, specific rules apply, including: additional test requirements. Foreign teacher training may be approved by the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research at the State Education Offices on the advice of the Information Centre for International Education — NAIC — and in individual respects of the right-wing universities. In accordance with the wishes of Stortinget, the NAIC has been strengthened by two settings and the body has been placed under the Norwegian network council from 1 January 1999. I believe this will make the application procedure for NAIC simpler and case-handling times shorter than before, so that a more effective and holistic assessment of foreign education can be ensured. Foreign speakers who do not have teacher training from their home country but who have the right language and culture education in their home country can also qualify for the teaching profession in Norway by taking one-year, organised, pedagogical education. I believe that we have thus provided for schemes which are a benchmark for the recognition of foreign teacher training, and which ensure the quality requirements that are desirable for work in the Norwegian university school. However, as the representative of Tingelstad points out, there are several challenges to address in order to better exploit the competences of many of our new countrymen. Among other things, we need to be more resourceful at providing information and providing an educational path for those people who need to complete their education in order to gain recognition as a learner. In order to better address such individual needs, the National Association of Schools and Norwegian Teachers teams have launched a project to identify needs and assess models of knowledge-based training for foreign learners. The project is supported by the Ministry of Labour and Administration. stressed the importance of cooperation with the Hajskolanes in Oslo, Agder and Süd-Trøndelag. In 1998, it was estimated that about half of the EU’s population was living in the region. 60 students completed completion training at these universities. In addition, there are other haystacks that consider establishing such an offer. This is a project that I see has a number of valuable aspects in order to facilitate individual training arrangements, and I want to follow it with interest. In addition to the schemes and measures outlined above, the Department of the current Teacher Training Act has a home to exempt from the training requirements laid down in the Regulation when special care makes this disadvantaged. I would like to stress that the Ministry should use such a ratio when it is a professional and educational basis.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1749	I thank the Council of State for the full and positive answer. It proves that we have systems today so that approvals can take place, but practice shows that it's not that simple yet. And then I allow myself to refer from the Evening Post on February 8, where the principal at Gran School, Signe Marie Natvig Andreassen, says: ‘I am stated and upset that it is so difficult to obtain recognition of foreign education.’ And she goes on to say, ‘We have teachers with a lot of qualifications from their home country, but our school system is not willing to recognise them as good enough. We risk leaving school for highly qualified foreign teachers who are not admitted to education.’ She goes on to say in the article that she thinks it's very unfortunate, because they have such a good impact on the learning environment. And then I ask the Council of State – when we have just adopted the reform of competence: will the Council of State seize this opportunity and go into this and look at it in relation to the real competence that each individual possesses?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1766	I'm totally in agreement with the representative Tingelstad that we get some examples, like what was referred to in the evening post, and that from a school, that's Gran, which has done a lot to get this done. It turns out, therefore, that it is always necessary to work to make it better. Then I believe that some of the key is, as the representative Tingelstad says, the competence reform. I myself have not had a meeting with the National Association of Schools, which is concerned about this issue, and the Oslo College, which is one of the majors in this area, where I said that as far as we can give exemptions from both the study competence and others within the law, we are prepared to try to do so. It is quite obvious, according to the setting that Stortinget has in relation to the reform of competences, that it will be even better. When we create legislation in connection with the reform, we will have even better opportunities. It is quite right that we have too many examples like the representative Tingelstad referred to. The goal must be to get those copies away.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1776	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: «Government Jagland proposed in St.prp. No 1 for the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research to set up a working group on IT and other cross-sectoral issues in the field of libraries [[1997-98]] [[(see section 4.4). cap. 0280)]] When will the Council of State ensure that the working group is appointed?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1785	This is an important matter. The changes in IT development have followed not only for the internal life of library institutions but also for the functioning and interaction of educational, research and cultural institutions. Unfortunately, this thing took a little longer than expected. The Ministry of the Church, Education and Research, together with the Ministry of Culture, is now well under way in the process of appointment. The working group will be appointed in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1794	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am happy to say to the Council of State that this is an important matter. Now it's just that this case has actually taken over a year. The Council of State now says that the working group will be appointed in the near future, and since everything is relative – of course – my question becomes what lies in the ‘nearest future’. Will it say next month, during the spring or during the year?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1799	First, I want to give the representative Uppøen Hansen absolutely right in that it has taken over a year – and that is far from a year too long. There are special reasons for that, but it doesn't change the reality that it should have been done before. So I would just say, as it is true, that by an incursion it has not been done that should have been done. But it will now be done, and I can then confirm it more precisely for the representative Upbeøen Hansen: It will be done before Easter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1807	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for the Church, Education and Research: ‘The Ministry, in circular F-06-99, has proposed that the test fees for § 20 candidates should be changed in line with the budget decisions of the Stortinget. After this, Stortinget has handled St.meld. No 42 The reform of competence. [[1997-98]] There is a large number of people who think that the trial fees for § 20 candidates should be removed. Will the Council of State take this into account in the context of the revised Spring National Budget?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1816	§ 20-candidates are awarded a professional/weighing test according to the law on vocational training in the workplace. This is a documentation scheme. The trade/weighing tests contain a theoretical and practical part. In some circumstances, the theoretical portion is calculated by taking a previous examination in school; in other circumstances, theoretical knowledge must be demonstrated by testing. Both the theoretical and the practical part of the professional/weighing tests involve costs for county municipalities. A test fee for candidates who apply for vocational training tests under the Law on Vocational Training Section 20 was introduced in 1997. The motivation for this was to consider the principle of equal treatment of § 20 candidates and private individuals under the law of continuing training. The fee shall cover any expenses incurred by the county authorities in connection with the tests. Such fees are now, after the last budget decision, it costs the individual § 20 candidate 500 to go up to the practical examination for the first time. This gives the candidate a letter of formal qualifications and documented professional competence. A private individual is required to pay 250 kroner per week according to the law of continuing training. examination first time. If the private individual is to take all the subjects that are necessary to achieve his/her study competence, he/she will have to spend monthly larger sums than the §20 candidate. I have noted the comments of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Right and the Socialist Left Party in the Church, Education and Research Committee in the context of the handling of the paper on the reform of competences. I would like to point out that the trial fee for the § 20 candidacy data must be seen in connection with the trial fee for privateists from an equal treatment perspective. Removing the trial fees for the § 20 candidacy data will result in an evaluation of the privateist fee under further training law. The sample fee for § 20 candidacy data must also be seen in connection with the county authorities' expenditure on further training. The removal of this levy will affect the economy of the county councils. This will involve reallocation of expenditure from the users of the scheme into their budgets. The county authorities would have to be compensated for the increase in expenditure. As mentioned, I have taken note of my views and have included them in the preparation of the State budget for the year 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1831	I thank the Council of State for your answer. It is right that, in the context of the examination of the 1999 budget, the Storting concluded with the principle of equal treatment of § 20 candidates and private players, that one should see it in context. When the Committee and the Stortinget dealt with the reforms of competences, this was also assessed in that context. There was no plurality to remove the fees for private players, but there is a rather solid plural note to remove the fees for §20 candidates. When it comes to the costs and lack of income for county councils, it is clear that there is a matter that needs to be assessed, and also a matter that one had to assess before 1997. My question to the Council of State is: would it not make sense to consider these questions in the context of the revised budget now to spring?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1840	Of course, what the Storting's plural says must be evaluated, and in a proper way. But now it's so that this is going to lead two types of things that are being treated in the Stortinget. The one is a budget that is agreed, with financial implications, and then we are talking about decisions. After that, the Stortinget has dealt with the notification of competence, where one has expressed an opinion in the form of a note, which is of course also to be taken into account, but which will nevertheless be counted in a different way from a decision. For this reason, it is clear to me that, in the current year, the decision of the Storting is valid, but when a premise next year, a thorough assessment should be made of both what the Storting has said about the Section 20 schemes and the principle of non-discrimination and should provide suggestions for conclusions in the next year’s budget proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1851	I would like to ask the Minister of Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘NRK Radio can report that many parents are now taking children out of school leisure schemes after high price jumps in many municipalities. Increased prices are partly due to reduced state subsidies and partly to a strenuous local economy. Was this an expected development as a result of a reduction in State subsidies, or will the Council of State take initiatives to ensure that more children can benefit from the provision of school leisure arrangements?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1860	I want to first make sure that there are only random samples NRK Radio has taken. The Head of School's office in Oslo has also informed the Department that the reduction in the school-time arrangements in Oslo is in 605 places, and not 1 300 places, which the NRK could report – much less than half. Reports from municipalities with numbers of children in school leave schemes per The training offices will be sent by 31 March 1999 at the latest. These reports will provide information on the number of places in the school leave scheme in spring 1999, and on the scale of the reduction. Every year since the fall of 1995, there has been a decline in the pediatrics in the school leave arrangements from fall to spring. On a national basis, this annual decline has been about 4 p.m., but this number varies from year to year and between counties. In other words, there is a certain decrease in the number of places in the school leave system from autumn reporting to spring reporting. Under the assumption that municipalities will not change their overall cost level, and their share of the costs, the reduction in government rates will result in an increase in the parental payment of approximately NOK 92 per year. the month of residence of 6 to 14 hours per month. week, and approximately NOK 131 per week. month of residence of 15 hours or more per month. week. Municipalities are otherwise free to finance the school leisure arrangements in addition to what they are required by the regulations. New Section 42 of the Grundskulelova on the school leisure arrangements with regulations was entered into force on 1 January 1999. This is meant to contribute to the safe anchoring of school leisure provision in municipalities and to ensure the quality of the provision. I also stress that the Ministry will follow the situation in the school leisure system carefully in time, but will note that all budgets are handled and are valid for one year at a time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1871	A summary of this answer is that the Council of State will follow developments closely — it was in many ways the conclusion. I think the situation is more dramatic than that. The fact is that the government parties, together with the Right and the Advance Party, cut approximately. 130 million. kr on the school holiday scheme from 1998 to 1999. We already suggested at the time that this would lead to a dramatic price increase. It tried to minimize the government, at least part of the government, and I feel that the Council of State is doing something of the same now, saying that the price increase will be NOK 92/131, depending on the fact that only the state subsidy is going to be gone. The situation is – obviously, although we lack a complete set of statistics – that there has been a dramatic price increase. The majority in Stortinget gave at the moment they cut 30 pst. on the ear-marked grants a signal to the municipalities that they also had to cut – it is not so strange if they took the signal that way. So my supplementary question is: will the Council of State, in the context of the revised national budget, assess the situation that has arisen and possibly come back with proposals for additional appropriations?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1880	I think I'll try to complement the understanding that the representative of Rivamm had of my answer: it's quite right that I want to follow the situation. The second thing I want to say is that the number, which is a sample, turns out to be quite poor quality insurance – I call Oslo as the one example. Requam tried to say that the state council has not taken the whole image when it comes to price increases. And then I'll say, what's going to be $130 million? When they're talking, I'm talking. But I recognize, as the representative of Rikvam, that the county and the municipalities have a tough economy, and that can also give some other results. As I said, the budget is agreed for the year we're in. At the same time, we've specifically asked to get numbers that show the evolution, numbers that we want on our table on March 31st. It is clear that all reports will need to be assessed as to whether there is a need in relation to the revised national budget, but initially there is no basis for additional promises.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1893	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Church, Education and Research: ‘After the Ministry has approved the application of the Community of God for support for private schools in Ørsnes, Vågan, the Children’s Ombudsman has expressed himself skeptically to the school. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child states that children are entitled to seek, receive and disseminate information and ideas of any kind. This will be prevented when children do not come into contact with the rest of the environment. How will the Council of State ensure the rights of children and ensure that the activities of the congregation are controlled?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1902	I record that the representative Norvoll has shown great creativity in finding new approaches to ask questions about this matter, and of course he will get answers: It is right that the UN Children's Convention guarantees children the right to receive ideas and information. It is therefore also right that it is important for children to have contact with their own local environment. These dishes I take seriously, and that's why we have made some demands in the approval of the Church of God's Primary School. Among other things, it is underlined that the school should pick up impulses and incentives from the community, help students to participate in their own local environment and stimulate cooperation and dialogue with a lack of local authorities and organisations working with measures for children and young people in the municipality. In order to ensure that these requirements are met, the State Training Office in Northern Ireland shall supervise the school. It is clear in the private sphere, and we have repeated it in the letter of approval: If the requirements are not met, the approval can be withdrawn. As the representative Norvoll knows, the complaint from Vågan kommune is now for treatment in the department, and I can promise a thorough assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1915	It's possible that I'm creative when it comes to finding new ways to ask questions. But the point is that there's a lot going on in this case, there's been a very big local commitment, and so the new thing is that the Children's Ombudsman has spoken skeptically about this. It is so good to write that the school should pick up impulses and incentives from the rest of the environment and from cooperation with organisations and institutions. The problem is that it doesn't happen, because the children we're talking about here are not allowed to join organizations and institutions outside the congregation. I am pleased that the Council of State will withdraw approval if it turns out that this does not happen. I'll be allowed to stress that even though you're very much in favour of parental rights and think it's sacred, as the Secretary of State said in a newspaper in Northern Ireland earlier, it's allowed to take other considerations into consideration. The Private School Act allows for other general considerations to be taken into account. If the Council of State believes that the total offer is unsatisfactory, he has authority and power to say no. I would encourage him to look at this matter again.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1924	As the case is for review, I will not go into it in detail, but just repeat that in connection with the inspection visit we have had in the school run by this trust society, it has been nothing to postpone in the way the school has been driven. When it comes to the anchor from the municipality of Vågan, I can tell you that I have an appointment with the spokesperson in the municipality of Vågan. I can therefore confirm what the representative is now asking that the matter be thoroughly reviewed once more.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1939	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘There is a major shortage of nurses. Only in Oslo were 1,019 unoccupied positions last week. Hospitals offer NOK 40000 in ‘cash support’ to recruit and maintain nurses. University of Oslo says they can train 40 to 80 more people per year. years. The major reforms for the elderly and the sick require several thousand new professionals. What will the Council of State do to ensure that all capacity in the education system is exploited?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1948	Initial training capacity in nursing has increased by 59 pst. since 1990, from approx. 2 500 to now well and a total of 4,000 students every year. Only in the last year was there an increase in the recording of about 400, with new places of study being allocated to the universities. Of the new places, 80 went to nursing school in Oslo. The Ministry suggests that the growth in the demand for nurses as a result of the many reforms in the health service can be covered by better access to nurses as the large students become graduates. Nevertheless, we read that there are now many vacancies for nurses in Oslo. It is therefore necessary to follow developments closely, and the ministry must be able to increase the intake further. Teacher and health education is a priority of basic education. Although the search for nurse training went down in 1998, there are still enough applicants to fill out the study places. The Ministry of Education suggests that higher education institutions with which to apply for certain trainings are making a major contribution to education. In 1998, we had an example of this in that the Högskulen in Akershus relocated to 80 new places of study in nursing and protective care. The department is also informed that the Hojskulen in Oslo has plans to take up a class of nursing students organised as a mission education with funding from among others. Oslo municipality. Basic training in nursing organized as a mission raises several fundamental questions. It has to be, for example. provide that the practice offered to ordinary students is not harmful. However, I would like to signal that I am initially in favour of testing on a limited scale a system of job-based nurse training. This will be largely targeted by targeting institutions/municipalities with a high shortage of nurses. The ministry also has a good record of decentralised health care. Most of the 400 new study places created in 1998 were decentralised. These places of study are more expensive than regular basic education. In order to cover more expenditure, both health and education authorities have gone in with a special source of funding. Municipalities with a high shortage of nurses have also contributed with funding. Decentralized arrangements are usually part-time, assuming that students can work alongside each other. The scheme is designed to provide a range of people who could not otherwise take on the right-hand training and thus make a reasonable use of the capacity of the education system. I also note that the question of capacity in nursing training will be taken up and evaluated in the dimensioning message that the Government will present later this spring. Good practice places are a bottleneck in nursing training. It is also focused on the quality of education. There are questions about the functionality of the newcomers. The meeting with everyday life can be frustrating for many of the newcomers, and the consequence may be that they are fleeing the profession. It is close to asking if we can do something so that newcomers can feel safer and better able to deal with the increasingly complex situations the nurses face. A selection has been reduced that has looked at various measures to strengthen the practical training of nurses. The report will be presented in a short time. On the basis of the report, we will assess what we can do to improve education and training.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1967	I thank the Council of State for a thorough answer. When there is room for mission-based education, there must also be room to increase public education capacity, which, in the SV's view, would be a better solution. But the municipalities need nurses, and therefore they will certainly want an opportunity for such a solution. Another possibility would be if the budgets were able to give municipalities such a framework that they could pursue a proper wage and employer policy and thus recruit nurses and maintain the trained nurses they have now received. I'm glad that the Council of State is positive in finding possible ways to increase education, but I could imagine following up and asking the Council of State an additional question. Since recruiting and retaining professionals is a complex topic that has many sides, it is also close to thinking about the reform of continuing training. Could the State Council envisage looking at the reform of continuing education and using it actively in its work of recruiting and maintaining nurses and teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1976	I don't think the representative Andersen and I disagree that the municipalities have a pretty cool economy, and that it would be easier if they had a better economy, but they have to give priority to the economy they have. However, when they find that some measures can be taken, as I have mentioned, they say that they are committed to meeting the need there. I said the government had increased the number of students quite dramatically last year. We're going to present a new message in ours. What we can do then, we have to look at, and we have to see it in relation to the capacity that exists. That's what I'm configured to do. Finally, I would like to confirm that it is of course essential that people stay in the profession, and it is quite natural to look at whether stimulating an exciting challenge and renewing can make more people stay in the profession. Therefore, the reform of competences will be important. [[The President clubs.]] But we need a while before we find the ways and methods to make it work. [[President clubs]] Cause, President!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1990	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘Norway needs more teachers with a foreign background. Teacher higher education schools were given last year the opportunity to exempt students with Norwegian as second language from secondary education. Students who started their education before this time are not exempted. Examples show that this results in students not being admitted to their education. Will the Council of State change the rules so that students who started earlier are also accepted in accordance with the same principle?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e1999	I agree with the representative Karin Andersen that we need more teachers with a linguistic background. This is also a contributing reason for the introduction of a system of exemptions from Norwegian secondary objectives in the general teacher training of foreign language students who have diplomas from continuing training without secondary qualifications. Of course, these students must follow all teaching in Norwegian, but they can choose to respond to a target form by both written tests in the subject. This scheme is currently being implemented with the new framework plan set up in the autumn of 1998. I would like to make it possible for the corresponding principle to apply to those students who are in a training course and who are therefore in line with the old framework plan. Those who have previously completed general teacher education without having passed the Norwegian examination in both target forms must turn to the Ministry in order to assess any exemption from the requirement under old schemes. I am determined that the department can consider reducing the examination requirement in Norwegian for this group.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e2006	I thank you for an answer that I see as very positive, and as a confirmation that the Council of State wants to do what he can for the people concerned to be admitted to their education. If we're to succeed in the multicultural project that our future will be, the school is the most important arena. This requires all kinds of multicultural competence, and then we have to clear out all the stops in the system that prevent us from recruiting the necessary skills. And the legislation, which was initially intended to ensure the quality of teacher training, can help to ensure that we are not able to recruit those we need. So my question is, is it so to understand that even those who started before the teacher's education was extended to four years, through an admission test, and so on? shall now be able to complete a course of training without presenting the requirement of new Norwegian?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e2013	Recalling that the memory extended here, it probably does not apply automatically to those who started before the teacher's education at the age of four, for it has been a few years. There was a new framework plan from 1998, but it was also four years in the old framework plan when we changed it with new reform. On the other hand, I am determined that those who have completed three-year teacher training, and who come in that situation, will be able to search for the ministry, and we will find solutions. What's here the problem and the challenge all the time is that sometimes it'll be hard to get information out. We have to be able to tell that we're set to find solutions. In the long term, we also need to make sure that we do not weaken the quality requirement in general. But it's quite clear that for these groups, learning two Norwegian languages would be an obstacle.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e2030	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e2036	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Defence: ‘The defense wants to dispose of Nils Stenbro, Årnes, its private Chevrolet Suburban on standby or when mobilisation is initiated. This is of course okay from the owner's side, but the defense also requires the car to be delivered with high tires, which Stenbro neither has nor wants to buy, as he does not have this need himself. Is the Council of State right to demand this investment from individuals who have to borrow their car for free?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e2045	Subject to the Military Requisitions Act of 29 June 1951 § 5, the owners of vehicles prepared by the Defence in case of preparedness or mobilisation are notified. On the claim form the defence sends out, it says that the vehicle is to be delivered with spiked tyres/chains. The form used today was produced in 1986, when it was common with winter tyres with spikes. The defence has now been notified that this text is being amended to include winter tyres with chains. The defense has not required private individuals to invest new tyres if the owner has not already had this. On the other hand, the defence demands that the attached release of the claim form be returned to the defence within the time limit. On the answer slip, there is a box that allows the owner of the vehicle to make comments, e.g.: the vehicle is not tipped. The accounting form is now under revision and the reference of this point in the form will be formulated somewhat differently.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e2050	I thank the Minister for the answer. I am pleased that the defense will now work on renewing the proposal form, so that it becomes more time-consuming. With regard to the notification referred to by the Minister of Defence, he says that the text is amended to include winter tyres with chains. But this does not make the situation any better for a part of those who have this type of vehicle. Most people drive on full-year tyres, possibly only with good summer tyres, as they have four-wheel tracks. Who will then pay for four wheels with winter tyres and chains? Only original rims for the car type are costing 7 000 kroner per car. plating, plus winter tyres, plus chains. We're still left with an economic question, which is also a question of principle. What will the Council of State do with this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e2059	The main point of this question is that the receipt form is returned and the answer slip is filled in. Should it therefore not be reasonable and necessary to equip the car with chains or tyres, it is possible to mark this in the reply box, and in this way make the defence aware that the claim is not fully met, or fulfilled in another way. But the return of the answer is essential. With regard to the named person who asked the question, I have been informed that the answer for 1999 has been sent, but the problems relate to previous years, where the answer slip has not been sent.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e2066	We go back to question 5.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e2072	This question, from the representative of Ågot Valle to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, is answered by the Minister for Health who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e2075	This question is then addressed to the Minister for Health: «The evening post of 11 February 1999 describes the situation of children with behavioural problems. There are long queues both in the PP service and in the paediatric and youth psychiatry for children and young people in need of help. The situation is so many places in the country, and rapid and good action is needed to improve the situation for all these children and young people. What will the Council of State do to help them get the help they need?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e2084	Behavioural disorders represent the most common mental disorder in children and adolescents in Norway today. It's estimated that 5 pst. of the children and young people this disturbance and behavioural disturbances occur more frequently in cities than in rural areas. The Social and Health Ministry’s ‘Prevention plan for mental health 1999-2006’ provided for a strong strengthening of interventions for children and young people with mental health disorders, both in the form of municipal interventions and in the development of child and youth psychiatric services in county municipalities. All municipalities should include in their psychiatry plans a strengthening of psychosocial services, support contacts and cultural and leisure activities and the development of health stations and school health services. The general provision of advice and prevention to children and young people shall be strengthened by the establishment of positions for psychologists and other relevant professional groups at municipal health and social centres, health centres, child protection and outreach activities. The County Children’s and Youth Psychiatry shall expand its offer from offering 2 pst. of the paediatric population, to 5 pst. The action plan was adopted by the European Council in June 1998 and is followed up in budgetary terms. In some municipalities, waiting time has now been recorded, for example, in the PP service. in Oslo. From Oslo, there is some feedback about a long waiting period, up to a year and a half for some groups. But waiting time is significantly lower in most other places in the country. In order to obtain an overview of the actual waiting time in the PP service, the Ministry of Church, Education and Research has recently entrusted the Professional Unit of the PP service with the task of carrying out a similar study at all PP offices. This study is currently ongoing and the results will be available in a relatively short time. Otherwise, I can inform you that the PP service in municipalities and county municipalities – as a result of Stortinget’s treatment of St.meld. No 23 for 1997-98 on training for children, young people and adults with special needs — to be reinforced by funds corresponding to an estimated 250 yearly work. Although this increase is financed by a reduction in state-owned special-pedagogical competence centres, it is expected that the conversion will lead to a better use of the special-pedagogical auxiliaries in total, for the benefit of users. At an expert conference on children and young people with serious behavioural problems in the autumn of 1997, it was confirmed that all experience suggests that, in order to succeed in the measures taken, it is necessary to reach the children as early as possible. In view of this, the Ministry of Children and Family will continue to support the development of measures that can help parents to develop their parental role. Below I can mention the parental guidance programme that is going on in the municipalities, and different life plans for couples in the start-up phase or for couples who want to get new perspectives on family and life. I hope that this will have shown that a number of different measures are in place to improve the supply of children and young people with behavioural problems, both at state, county and municipal level, and I would like to do my part to ensure that the measures are followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e2097	I thank you for your answer. I'm glad that there's a lot of plans to give these kids, these kids and the families their help, but I'm pretty sure the Minister of Health is also aware that the poor community economy will at least make this harder to do. It's a social problem, and it's an individual problem when kids are waiting for help. It's a big problem when kids with learning difficulties or concentration difficulties, or kids who are hyperactive, don't get help on time. Every day that goes without them getting help and they're going to have to stand in line, is one day too much, because the loss experiences almost daily for these kids lead to poor narcolepsy, insecurity and psychological deposits. That is why I agree that these must get help as early as possible. But then I get into childhood and youth psychiatry, because it's like -- I've actually experienced -- that childhood and youth psychiatry becomes very exclusive with whom we want to give help. And so it's going to be the 1st line that has to deal with it. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e2108	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e2111	Yes, does the Minister for Health have any comments on that?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e2116	I agree with Mr. Ågot Valle that there is both a social problem and an individual problem we are facing, and that for those who are involved, every day you don't get help, one day too much. With regard to childhood and youth psychiatry and psychiatry in general, we are facing the establishment of many years of neglect. I do not want and have not tried to give the impression that the plans we have adopted, and the binding escalation that will come, will change this overnight. Things will take time. However, we are putting in place measures to increase capacity both in the 2nd line service and in the 1st line service, so that we achieve a better balance between the primary prevention and 1st line service and the specialised provision of child and youth psychiatry in county municipalities. I think this improved balance will change the image of child and youth psychiatry for capacity reasons appearing more exclusive than it should.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e2126	I will ask the Minister for Health the following question: ‘The lack of medical care in Norway creates major problems, not least for primary health services in the district of Norway. Among other things, proposals have now been made to put an end to the creation of new medical positions until the coverage of unaccompanied jobs has improved. Will the Council of State contribute to such a solution?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e2135	It is a very important issue for the representative, Mr Glötvold, to address his question. The problem of primary medical care is complex and therefore requires the use of different instruments. I want to make sure that the health authorities give high priority to this field. In addition to the implementation of various incentives, provision is made for an increase in educational capacity in medicine, recruitment of EEA doctors and simplification of recognition schemes for foreign doctors outside the EEA territory. Another central instrument is the legal regulation of new national medical distribution which entered into force on 1 January of this year. The legal regulation replaces the former contractual arrangement between the parties – the so-called ULS agreements. The new scheme requires the Ministry to establish an annual framework for the number of new medical positions that can be established in the municipal health service and in the specialist health service, including the State's own hospitals. The newly established National Council for Specialist Medical Training and Distribution shall advise the Ministry on this distribution framework. It has been suggested that the distribution will take place in April/May. Before this allocation framework is established, there is no possibility of creating new posts. However, for the primary medical service, I have seen it as absolutely necessary to establish a transitional regime until 1 May 1999. The scheme implies that the Secretariat of the National Council has been delegated by the Ministry to process on an ongoing basis applications and benefits of up to 24 posts and medical counsellors. I hope with this that recruitment measures are in place, inter alia. from the municipalities, therefore may continue. In the shortcoming we now experience in the medical market, it is clear that market forces are not free to take over. To illustrate the consequences of this, I can tell you that in 1998 33 funds were allocated to the municipal health service and 310 funds to the specialist health service. In addition, in the specialist health service and without the approval of the former ULS Secretariat, a total of 1,030 medical years’ work has been set up over the last 2 to 4 years. I would like to emphasise this when the Department will establish the framework for the distribution to the primary medical and specialist health services. This shows that there is a need for the state to enter and control the medical distribution in the future. Priority areas of action shall include cancer, psychiatry and primary medical care. Prioritisation of primary medical care is particularly important in view of the introduction of the fixed medical scheme from 1 January 2001. Hospitals will therefore have to show moderation in their requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e2148	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I think was constructive and offered that this would be better managed. I am pleased that the Council of State says that the state must clear up and rule this, among other things. in relation to the market forces that also exist here. It's quite terrible to hear that 1,030 medical doctors have been distributed without any kind of control in the last 2 – 4 years. When it comes to 1,030 years of medical work, it's about a lot more doctors, I think. I am pleased that we have had a new arrangement in the legal regulation of the new national medical distribution that has taken place, and that the newly established National Council for Specialist Training in Interaction with the Ministry can do something here. I'm a little worried about the small municipalities in particular. It turns out that 5 pst. of the medical positions in municipal health services were unoccupied in 1996. Almost 20 pst. was unoccupied in small municipalities. This means that I am afraid of the recruitment measures, which means that the poor municipalities have to pay even more.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e2157	There is cause for concern about the development of medical coverage in the smaller municipalities in the districts. Therefore, with the support of the majority here in this Chamber, the Government has strengthened national incentives in relation to district medical coverage. Twenty million. kr has been granted for 1999, and the money will include: go to measures to be taken with the guidance of tour operators so that they do not have to guide themselves in their tour services, grants for the further training of doctors in the districts, trials on new models of medical care cooperation and temporary work arrangements, support for courses in national courses for doctors recruited in the EEA territory, in and of themselves outside the EEA territory, to mention some of the measures to be taken to address the specific problem of the representative Ola D. Glötvold.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e2167	‘The state order for the construction of a chemical treatment plant on the Hövringen in Trondheim appears to be increasingly unnecessary. OCEANOR – Oceanographic Company of Norway ASA – documents in a report that a chemical clean-up of 400 million. krona ‘does not solve or affect the environmental conditions that one today agrees should focus on. This money would have been much better spent in the work of ‘cleaning emissions in the vicinity’ and ‘cleaning requirements related to the sources polluting the sewage’. Will the Council of State look again at the matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e2174	As early as 1989, the municipality of Trondheim was ordered by the County Council of South Trondelag to reduce particulate matter by 85 pst. at Ladenhammer and Hövringen sewage treatment plant. This requirement was justified by the conditions in the water masses. The topping sewage treatment plant currently has only mechanical cleaning in the form of a silage. This means that the sewer goes almost impurely out into Trondheimsfjord, since only the largest particles are removed. The imposition by the county is based on a study carried out by OCEANOR in 1987-1988. This concluded that for long periods there was poor hygienic water quality on the route from Hövringen to the border with the municipality of Malvik, that the emissions of sewage led to local eutrophication effects on several strands along the beach zone, and that there was a certain impact on the soft bottom fauna. The strongest influence was just outside the discharge at Hövringen. The clean-up requirement of the county is primarily to reduce the emission of particulate matter, the main consideration being to limit the slurry of the bottoms. The introduction of wide-spectrum purification will also significantly reduce the emissions of bacteria, viruses, pollutants and heavy metals, such as: will reduce the risk of infection in nearby bathing beaches. The measure will thus lead to local water improvements, which could benefit the inhabitants of the municipality. This requirement is also in line with the EU Waste Management Directive, which Norway is obliged to comply with through the EEA Agreement. Much has been done in the sewerage sector in recent years, which has led us to approach the national target of clean-up in the sewerage sector by 2000. Thus, the topping sewage treatment plant is one of the few plants that remain to be built to achieve this objective. I agree with Mr. Brende that it is important to take the pollution at the source, and it is therefore important that the municipality of Trondheim continues this work that the municipality has already done. The same applies to work being carried out on the remediation of emissions in the vicinity. However, I do not believe that these ongoing works are an argument for postponing the upgrading of the Hövring sewage treatment plant. Rehabilitation of emissions in the vicinity and construction of sewage treatment plants are both important in order to maximise the efficiency of cleaning. I therefore recommend that the municipality of Trondheim start upgrading the Hövringen sewage treatment plant, so that it is completed by the deadline, which has recently been postponed by the county until the end of 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e2189	The answer from the Environment Minister surprises me, because she doesn't change any of what she has said before, although the report she says she bases her views on has been taken to income for a vision that it doesn't support. OCEANOR now states – also in the address paper and in conversations with the municipality of Trondheim – that the investment in Hövringen does not affect the environmental conditions that should be in focus today and that this money could have been used in a much better way. It is also established that Trondheimsfjorden is in a different situation than what Oslofjorden is. It shall be emptied, inter alia: 12 times in a year. In fact, sometimes there may be a shortage of nutrients. It is also true that if you drain this onto deep water, it will have no environmental benefit whatsoever. My question to the Minister for the Protection of the Environment is therefore: Can we not now set aside political and professional achievements and at least be willing to review the OCEANOR report once more?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e2198	To the extent that there should be political prestige on one side or the other in this discussion, I think it would be a good idea to leave it aside. If it is a professional achievement, I think it is important to hold on to it, as long as the professional achievement is based on knowledge – something it is in this case. Unfortunately, no one can prove that the water quality in Trondheimsfjorden has improved somewhat since the directive came into force in 1989. That is also why we stand firm in our decision. What's happening today is that this is being picked up. That you don't have to clean it, when cleaning it constitutes a less part of the cost than collecting it, I don't think it's a good solution. So we're talking here, as well as sludge and bottom conditions, about chemical purification where you get to do something with bacteria, viruses and heavy metals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e2208	«In the treatment of St.prp. No 1 by the Ministry of the Environment, the bulk of the population went towards a further build-up of regional Local Agenda 21 nodes, funded by government funds, in order to ensure that the increased appropriations for LA21 went to local work in non-governmental organisations. [[1998-99]] [[LA21]] However, since the New Year, the Ministry has created six new nodes. Can the Council of State explain why this has happened?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e2215	The initiative at regional focal points is based on a cooperation agreement between the Ministry of the Environment and the Local Governments’ Central Association. This agreement is based in St.meld. No 58 for 1996-97, Environmental protection policy for sustainable development. As is well known, the number of committees stated when dealing with it at the Innst. S. No 150 for 1997-98 ‘... the central association of the municipalities will be central to the local agenda-21 work and could contribute to a high level of activity in the municipalities.’ Let me stress that it is KS who stands for employment and has the employer's responsibility for the connecting points. I have explained the cooperation with the KS and the municipality sector of Stortinget in a letter dated 30 November 1998, in my contribution to the budget debate on 7 December 1998 and in a letter to the representative Gunn Karin Gjul on 15 February 1999. Per. On 7 December 1998, node processes were under way in all the counties of the country and in Oslo. In seven counties, LA 21 employees were in operation, and in another five there was a written agreement to add them. In a sixth state, Troms, there was at this time an oral agreement. This agreement was formalised in writing on 22 December 1998. In the last five counties and in Oslo, there were also lengthy recruitment processes in progress. KS stopped these processes immediately after the Storting decision was known. Following the launch in the Evening Post on 10 February 1999, KS has reconfirmed this information by letter of 12 February 1999 to the Ministry of the Environment. In my further work in 1999, I assume that binding agreements have been concluded on connecting points in 13 counties, and 7.6 million. NOK is set aside for this. $8.4 million. will go to the work of the organisations. In line with the Storting decision, this represents the whole increase in cape. 1463 item 74 in 1999. The funds are channelled in different ways in line with the local Agenda 21 intentions. I have also found room to maintain the support of the Foundation Idébanken, on which the members of the Committee from the Right expressed their recognition, cf. Inner. S. No 150 for 1997-98. In conclusion, I would like to remind the representative Sanner that Local Agenda 21 is a demanding and long-term change work that the organisations alone cannot take responsibility for. The essence and the driving force behind the Rio challenge are precisely partnerships between equal partners, involving both local authorities, organisations and businesses. The strategy with the regional focal points must be seen in such a light. Wide evaluation of LA 21 work in several European countries also shows that sustainable results locally depend on a commitment to interaction between industry, non-governmental organisations and the ordinary municipal administration.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e2233	In the past, the majority of the population has made it clear that they would not accept the creation of several posts in the KS to organise the LA 21 work. As you know, the money was to go to the work of voluntary organisations. The Council of State refers to a cooperation agreement between the KS and the Ministry. I assume that in that cooperation agreement it is assumed that no people can be hired until the money is granted. I understand the Council of State that she confirms that formal recruitments have been carried out after the Storting made it clear that it would not be acceptable that more posts were created. It is also apparent in the Evening Post on Wednesday 10 February that formal employment was carried out following the Storting decision. This was also reacted very strongly to by the workers' representative, Gunn Karin Gjul. My question to the Council of State is: Why has the Council of State acted contrary to the decision of the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e2242	Let me first say that the journalist in the evening post on 10 February 1999 has made it clear to the KS that the notice was due to a mistake when it came to the employment in Hordaland, and that the agreement had been concluded before the Storting decision took place. Let me also say that I cannot see that what has happened is contrary to the Storting decision. I made it clear in the debate on the budget on 7 December last year how I would follow up on this, without protesting about it. There I said the following: ‘In order to follow up on the majority, I will keep those nodes where there is agreement, but not build this further. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the agreement with the nodes is limited in time and will of course be evaluated and that the Stortinget will have knowledge of this evaluation.» So in the debate I made it quite clear that I saw that Storting’s decision included those places where there were no employees, and I have followed that too.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e2257	I have the following questions for the Minister for the Environment: ‘It is approx. five weeks since the Stavanger spatial plan was up as interpellation in the Stortinget. At what time can the Storting expect a decision in the case?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e2266	In the light of the Storting decision, I have taken the initiative to assess the impact of Stavanger municipality's spatial plan, based on an overall assessment of the impact made by the Ministry of the Environment, on the Stavanger region. To address this issue, an overview will be drawn up of the needs of Stavanger municipalities for development areas based on realistic estimates of housing demand, housing composition, efficiency and future economic development. Similarly, there is a need for an overview of the supply of land for expansion purposes in Stavanger and the Stavanger region. A compilation of this material will show how the development needs can and should be met. The production of the material will take place in close cooperation with the municipality of Stavanger, the county of Rogaland and the county of Rogaland. In order to clarify the arrangements and progress made in the work, I have agreed to a meeting with the rapporteur, the rapporteur-general and the counties on 4 March this year. Only after this meeting has been held will it be possible to say something more specific about when the final assessment can be made.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e2275	The size has dealt with this matter, and at the end of that treatment the minister said that she would follow and comply with the wishes of the majority of the population. What I now got along with was that the minister suggested that a new plan should be drawn up. And the big thing about this is that the plan that's already made for this area, that is, the Stavanger area plan, was to be implemented. It was Storting's intention when this matter was up. I think it is a good thing that a meeting is being held with the county councillor, the county rapporteur and the rapporteur in Stavanger, but the condition must be that we stick to the decision taken by the Stortinget. I therefore expect the Minister to return to Stortinget as soon as possible with an answer in the matter. My question is finally: can we expect an answer in this matter very quickly, or will it take both winter and spring?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e2280	I have done my utmost to follow up the intentions of the Stortinge decision, a decision that therefore meant that I would take the initiative to assess the impact of Stavanger municipality's spatial plan, based on an overall assessment of the impact made by the Ministry of the Environment, on the Stavanger region. It is on the basis of that decision and the follow-up to what we have now initiated for a meeting with the municipality of Stavanger, the county of Rogaland and the county of Rogaland. As I said in my first answer, it is not possible for me today to say when this assessment will be concluded, but my intention is that it should happen as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e2287	That being the case, it is no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-17.ana.ud2304e2296	There is no record.
