ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e27	The representative Siri Frost Sterri, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Sogn and Fjordane counties, Nils R. Sandal, has taken the seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Torstein Rudihagen from Wednesday 27 January until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Kjell Ivar Fossnes, is called to meet during the period of leave.3. Kjell Ivar Fossnes is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Torstein Rudihagen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e75	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik Minister for Foreign Affairs Knut Vollebæk Council of State Lars Sponheim The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. Some representatives have signed up in advance with a request to ask questions. Representatives who, in addition to them, are interested in asking questions are asked to rise. - Thank you. Then we start with the first main questions, from the representative of Thorbjørn Jagland.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e94	I have a question for the Prime Minister. Growing crime causes justifiably fear in society. Crime has been internationalised for the longest time. The EU has now set up a European police organisation, Europol, to combat these developments. In particular, drug trafficking, illegal immigration, money laundering, child pornography and prostitution are to be pursued. Europol is open only to Member States, but the Europol Convention opens up cooperation with third countries, in particular with countries participating in the Schengen cooperation, Norway, Iceland and Switzerland. It is important that Norway avail itself of this opportunity as quickly as possible, otherwise we risk weakening our efforts to combat organised crime. My question to the Prime Minister is: Did the Prime Minister raise this question in the discussions with the President of the European Commission?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e103	The Europol issue was not specific, but the fight against international crime has been discussed with the EU in various contexts. I agree with the representative, Mr Igland, that Norway must participate in international cooperation in various forums with the aim of combating the types of international crime that Europol is also working with. The government has therefore decided that during 1999 we will present a major communication in which we will address various forms of international cooperation, including through international organisations, so that Norway can both participate in and benefit from international cooperation to combat crime. This big message will also discuss Norway's relationship with Europol. At this stage, Europol is giving priority to its Member States, i.e. the Member States of the European Union. But it is true, as the representative of Mr Jagland said, that it is also opening up to forms of cooperation with non-EU countries. Representatives of the Norwegian police have therefore already been in Europol and discussed this. Of course, we will also discuss this at political level. Europol is currently a rather unfinished organisation. It has not clarified management issues, it has not clarified immunity issues for its staff, and it has not clarified which monitoring bodies are involved in the Europol context. The government is interested in various forms of international fight against crime. We will therefore examine in more detail the possibilities for cooperation with Europol, but this is currently at such an early stage that it is difficult to know which link might be relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e116	I thank you for your answer. I was told that this was not taken up, which I think is strange. It is true that the Europol Convention has been ratified and the organisation will be established soon. Several third countries have already contacted Europol to reach an agreement. It is also, to say the least, designed this agreement for third countries, so that it is important for Norway to intervene as quickly as possible, so it is not satisfactory for the Workers' Party to address this in a wholesale notification during 1999. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister if there are any other reasons why you do not want to address this issue now. I noticed that some comments were made after the meetings in Brussels that could indicate exactly that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e121	No, there are no other reasons for this, and we are also prepared to address this at political level with the EU and Europol. The agenda of my meeting with the President of the Commission was so close to other issues that we had to give priority at this stage, that it was not possible to specifically address them there, but we will also quickly make contact at political level to clarify what is possible. So I would point out that Europol is so far a rather unfinished organisation, but we are interested in various forms of international police cooperation to combat crime. We will get to grips with this quickly, and we will, as I said, discuss it in a big message to be promoted during the year, which must go both on our relationship with Interpol, with Europol and with UN organisations working on such issues.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e128	Vidar Bjørnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e131	The Labour Party is convinced that we must fight international crime, we must cooperate closely with our neighbouring countries as well. I note that the Prime Minister is relatively willing to seek active contact in order to explore the possibilities of association with European police cooperation, which I believe will become more and more important. And if we are to safeguard Norwegian interests, we must be active, and it is important that we stand together in Norway. I registered that, after Minister of Foreign Affairs Vollebæk's statement a couple of weeks ago, the Justice and Home Affairs spokesman of the Central Party said that contact with and seeking association with Europol has been wasted time and resources. Could the Prime Minister confirm that he has a unified government behind him in seeking contact and actively trying to explore the possibility of association with European police cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e138	As I explained, police contact has already been made, and we have got back a report from their contacts with Europol. We are also prepared to make contact at political level. But it is also important, before anyone gets any further into this, that we get to know more about how Europol is developing and what forms of cooperation are involved in non-EU countries. Europol has today built its organisation primarily around a liaison department and an analysis department, and there may be analyses and information that will be of interest to Norway, even if we are not a member of the EU. What we also need to find out is whether Europol can gradually become more supranational. Of course, we will have a completely different negative attitude to that, because we base our cooperation with the EU and EU bodies on an intergovernmental, international and not supranational basis.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e146	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e149	I also have a question for the Prime Minister on about the same subject, namely the follow-up to the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties, the Right and the Advance Party. As the Prime Minister himself has said on several occasions, it resulted in a 100 million-dollar increase in police force. Dr as well as positions for the more than 300 students at the Police College. Can the Prime Minister then explain how the operating costs and the operating budget for the police this year have been reduced by 64 million. kr, i.e. a 10 pst reduction. in relation to last year? And the Prime Minister agrees that there must be some kind of breach of the budget agreement when you instead of getting 100 million. kr in addition, an operating budget with variable costs, reduced by 64 million. Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e156	Realities are not the way the representative Hagen now gave the impression. The distribution of the police budget to the police districts and special agencies is based on a budget of about EUR 10 million. NOK 4.3 billion for ordinary operations. It's an increase of 7.2 pst. in relation to last year. Firstly, these appropriations shall cover fixed expenditure, such as: wages, rents, fuels, etc., for the other part, they cover variable expenditure, overtime paid hours, travel, competence, postage, telephone, etc., and thirdly they cover earmarked funds. Within this framework, 100 new posts have been created, as well as 15 have been relocated between police districts. It has been claimed by police organizations that the Storting's increase in the budget of 100 million. kr has not been followed up. This does not lead to correctness. This strength of 100 million. kr is distributed. When police organisations claim that there is a decline in operational resources, enough is allocated to the variable funds. This decline is approx. Thirty million. kr. This decrease was also commented on in the State budget, presented to the Stortinget. The size has been informed about it. Increase in the budget by 100 million. kr led to a fall in variable funds less than originally foreseen. Like any other institution, the police must also accept to work within tight budgetary frameworks and increase efficiency where possible. So it's the variable operating resources that are reduced, not the total budget and not the total operating resources. And when there are now a significant number of new positions in the police, it will also be possible to reduce the cost of variable operating resources without jeopardising the overall operation of the police. So the budget that is now allocated means a strengthening of the police's work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e163	The Prime Minister said in the Questionnaire 14 days ago: ‘A strengthening of the 1999 police and officers budget was adopted, and that was the basis for my opinion. In addition, provision will be made for a job for police high school students who are graduates to combat crime.’ When will there be proposals for the creation of the necessary posts for these more than 300 students who will then have jobs? It is not at all affected, as far as we know, by the distribution of the police budget for the current year. And when the variable operating costs are reduced, it's a weakening of the possibilities. Would the Prime Minister agree that it would be very useful for the Government and the Government's relationship with particularly some big parties if the parliamentary leaders and the Prime Minister were to carry out a careful review of the continuation of the budget agreement on the police for the current year?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e175	Now it's about to be graduated from the Police College for the summer. It will then be from the summer to the autumn that the question of ensuring the necessary number of jobs for them to get a job in the police department becomes relevant. It would therefore be natural to come back to this during the spring, at the latest in the context of the revised national budget. And as I have said before, matters relating to elements of the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties, the Right and the Advance Party, it is natural to discuss with the Contracting Parties, and that is what we intend to do. The budget adopted in the autumn is also the responsibility of the Progress Party, including the police budget. This was a budgetary settlement made by the Government with the Advance Party and the Right. That is why I also expect the Progress Party to be in line with the budget that we have adopted together. But it's true that we're going to have 100 million in addition to the hundred million in strength. kr shall facilitate the appointment of police officers to the graduates of the Police College.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e184	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e187	My question also goes to the Prime Minister and concerns the same area that has now been dealt with. The Prime Minister’s contribution to the party’s Conference of Trustees a few days ago was instead to promote his own proposals on how to deal with the crime of violence, to attack other parties, among others. the two parties which ensured that the police budget was higher than it would have been at the suggestion of the Government. This means a discharge of liability. There are two major forms of violence that are now under development. It's the gang crime of young people, and it's the tough, brutal international crime. And none of these are influenced by what the prime minister was concerned about, namely the alcohol abuse. My question is therefore: what concrete action does the Prime Minister want to take to meet these two forms of violence that are now under development?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e196	It's not right, as the representative Petersen says, that the government instead of promoting proposals to combat the crime of violence is attacking other parties. If Mr. Petersen had read the lecture script from my speech in the Drama, he would have seen that I took up the crime over a wide range and explained the measures the Government has already taken, and the measures we will take. In a general public debate, representatives of the Right and the Progressive Party must bear the burden of hearing what is a fact, namely that alcohol use is actually the main single cause of violence. In fact, in that part of the Oslo police district, which includes the centre region, it is about 70 pst. by the acts of violence triggered by alcohol-using persons. In that case, the Right must also be able to hear it without being badly affected, and they must bear to hear that there may be a link between liberal alcohol policy and the development of violence. Then I am also prepared to discuss such matters as the representative Petersen now raised. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the method selection, whose setting has been waiting for a long time, and which, among other things, will address such questions, coming in the spring. We don't want to just wait for it. Reciprocal crime is, among other things: Unfortunately, quite widespread among immigrant youth. Even in mid-February, I'm going to have a meeting with a representative sample of youth organisations among immigrants to seek to get straight into the environment and discuss with those who know these environments best, how to try to dissolve and detonate these gangs that operate and not least contribute to the rampage with which Oslo has been harassed in recent times. The question of international crime I answered recently in my reply to the representative of Jagland.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e207	We should raise an opinion against the drunk, there's no disagreement about it. But what was the Prime Minister's point, that changing times would lead to a substantially different crime picture, is hardly holding. If he doesn't agree with me, he can talk to his sideman, sir. Sponheim, whose party was in agreement with the Right in Oslo City Council. My point isn't this, but it's clear there's a context here. My point is simply: what does the Prime Minister want to do with the two forms of violence that are under development, which are on the rise? Now he involuntarily gave a reason why I'm worried, that he's not talking about what's central here, making new, concrete proposals. So my question is again: what new, concrete proposals besides a seminar in February has the Prime Minister to come along in these areas?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e214	Just briefly about time of gift, since Petersen came back to it. Obviously, the right has itself realized that there is a certain connection, because at least one went in Oslo away from being open until 5:00 in the morning until 3:00 in the morning, which is still very liberal in the international context. So the right has now clearly realized itself that there's a certain context. This is actually the most important single cause of violence, it doesn't get right out of it. We want more visible police in the streets, not least in the capital. Now the 75 new positions will be first. It'll help. One has now introduced in Oslo the principle in the police that one also downgrades less serious crime as one sees, to indicate that crime is not accepted at all. This is important, because less serious relationships often create a precedent for serious crime. We are entering the immigrant communities because, unfortunately, they are overrepresented in terms of punishment and violence – not generally in terms of crime, but blame and violence. This and several other concrete measures have been implemented by the Government, and I will explain them in more detail. in my presentation to Stortinget on 11 February.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e223	Grethe G. Fossum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e227	I think it is interesting that in such a serious matter as violence, crime and prevention in relation to young people, those who agreed very much on this precisely in the budget. When the Prime Minister stands here and eagerly defends more police and less rushes, he forgets one important thing: that the budget was not willing to participate in increased grants for school leisure schemes, increased grants for child protection measures, increased grants to schools where possible, and increased grants for research to find out what to do. I think it might be a double standard when the Prime Minister is not willing to release the purse in terms of preventive work. The fact that there is something in a statement does not justify the fact that you were not willing to give any money signals in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e232	I record that the representative Fossum repeats the tabloid press expression on «double morals». It gets to be her way of debating. I will not accuse my political opponents and competitors in that way. I think one could have been saved for that, even though one disagrees with some budget lines. The tabloid pressure has been such that the Government has reduced the fight against violence in terms of prevention among children and young people. That's not right. It is true that one within a tight budget framework has not been given the increase in some items that a person would like to have, among other things. in the case of child protection, school leave, etc. However, some of these appropriations are set aside for different measures, including measures to combat violence in the child and youth communities. Appropriations for action to combat child violence and youth violence are not being stepped down. On the contrary, the ministry will strengthen its efforts for these purposes through re-priorities within these allocation frameworks, and then I think one should let go of such trendy, mundane characteristics as Grethe G. Fossum used now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e239	Per-Kristian Foss – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e242	When a prime minister gets involved in the debate of a city government and punishes the majority of a city government, the least you could ask is, in fact, correct knowledge of what has happened. That is not the majority with which the Prime Minister operates, the majority behind the bulwark decision. It is not a majority of the Right Party and the Progressive Party, who do not have a majority in the City Council, but actually a broad majority who also include the Labour Party and the Left Party and the outlaws of other parties. The reason, as the Prime Minister here repeats, that the closing hours were changed is also not correct. This was actually changed in the autumn of 1997. It was a desire to achieve a broad majority, a consensus, on fixed and stable times for the outdoors, and it was not with that justification the Prime Minister now used in his reply to Jan Petersen. It's not a proper representation of what was the rationale on the part of the majority. I think it might be an advantage that we agreed that filling and violence leads to crime, but the Prime Minister indicates that this is solved as simply as having the outdoors shut an hour or two earlier. He has no professional cover for that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e251	No, the Prime Minister doesn't indicate that. And if the representative Foss had read what I said in this talk--
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e256	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e261	– then he would have seen – and then he can confirm, and then he would like to nod again – that in that talk I took up more relationships. It could be nice if the representative Foss nodded to it, because that's actually the truth. At least it's a progress that you don't keep open until 5:00 in the morning. Now it's 3 o'clock. If a person travels around the capitals of Europe, one will see that the usual thing is that, apart from nightclubs, one actually stops earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e268	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e273	And that there's a connection between this and the violence at the Oslo Centre, the representative Foss can talk to Oslo's chief of police about it. I've actually been with Oslo's chief of police on patrol in Oslo's center of evening and night, and she doesn't hide that violence and alcohol are closely related. There are many parents who are concerned about their young people who are out in Oslo at the time of the day we are here, because the alcohol flows as freely as it does.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e278	Kristin Halvorsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e281	I am not sure whether it is Oslo Right who has come to reason, or whether it is simply the case that the Stortinget adopted national law on closure, which meant that the Right and Advance Party in Oslo had to follow them, and that a sense of reason with regard to the policy of the open cranes was thus imposed from this house. But instead of reading the Prime Minister's speech from Drammen, I've been busy figuring out how it actually goes around the municipalities after the state budget that was adopted. And what the Municipal Report can tell us is the following, which was on the front page of the last issue: «Schools and growth are reduced most in the municipal budgets, showing a new study The municipal report has been carried out. And worse than that: 90 municipalities have to raise the appropriations for the elderly to get their share of the increased state subsidy. Other items need to be further reduced, including those for school. More than 60 per cent of municipalities reduce service levels.» What is a fact around the municipalities is that the preventive work that Bondevik calls for in the fight against violence and crime was reduced in the government's own draft budget for municipal economy. What does Bondevik want to do to ensure that children and young people are taken more seriously around the neighbourhood?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e293	The President will assume that the supplementary question falls far to the edge of what was the main question, but the Prime Minister has the opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e296	I guess it's not that easy to hold on to what was the main question. I don't know if it was that I gave a talk about the relationship between violence and alcohol, of all the places right in the Drama, that has led to this derailment. But since the representative Halvorsen started this topic, I must at least end this sequence by saying that it would be a great step forward if the Progress Party and the Right too would enter into a serious debate on how to reduce the contribution of alcohol to violence, because that is the biggest single cause. Instead of defending a liberal alcohol policy, they should discuss that relationship seriously, and then we all get to be willing to innovate in our new knowledge of this. In the case of the local economy, a growth rate of 1 1/4 pst is added up. of 1999. Some of the problem is that the municipal economy varies a lot from municipality to municipality. This is something we're working on and coming back to in our community economics proposition. [[The President clubs.]] But the picture is not as full black as Kristin Halvorsen expressed, even if it is the case anywhere.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e306	The President assumes that it will now be best for us to move on to a new main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e309	I'm going to let Bondevik go for a while and ask a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. For 1999, the appropriations allocated to Russia and Eastern Europe were drastically reduced. These included: the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties, the Right and the Advance Party which provided for it. We ended up with 55 million. kr, against e.g. 271 million. 1998 kr. These funds are covered, inter alia, by: Democratisation projects, but also nuclear safety, environmental protection and infrastructure development — particularly in North and West Russia. In the budget debate, the Foreign Minister promised to maintain the level of activity from 1998. The representative Siri Frost Sterri said in the same debate that the assumption that the Right had been involved in this interception was that the level of activity was maintained. Is this still at hand and is the Foreign Minister still satisfied with the budget for Eastern Europe/Russia?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e318	I don't think I actually said that I was satisfied with the budget in the budget debate, but I said that that was the way it was, and we were going to see what we could do with it. It is absolutely right that I also said that we should aim to maintain the level of activity, and if we didn't do it, we should come back to Stortinget. It is only now that we are gradually seeing how much unused funds there are in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the field of Central and Eastern Europe. As Stortinget will be familiar with, from 1996 to 1997, 419 million had actually been transferred. From 1997 to 1998, 307 million had been transferred. kr. That's why – and that's also in line with what Stortinget has said in the past after criticising the Government for the large under-consumption – the government thought that it should be seen here whether it was possible within the framework that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs now had to maintain the level of activity, with the proposed allocation that came. Instead, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs received a commitment authorisation of 200 million. NOK which we were also going to evaluate in what way we could use. Now it actually seems like we've been particularly good -- it looks like the under-use is only 95 million. kr from 1998 to 1999. There is a dramatic difference between what has been before, and although I am a parliamentary novice, I understand that the government – when the situation is completely new and what could not be foreseen – has the opportunity to come back to the Storting and present it. It's in line with what I said during the budget debate, and the government will.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e325	Then I understand that we will get this matter back to Stortinget. For our part, we have received in the last few days enquiries from project managers who have been informed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that the Eastern Europe and Russia funds have now been used up, and they have therefore also been refused to continue, among other things. major environmental projects in North-West Russia. As the Foreign Minister and also representatives of the other cooperation parties so clearly stressed in the budget debate that the condition was that the level of activity should continue, I now understand on the Foreign Minister that he will do what is in his power to do so, perhaps by coming to the Storting and discussing this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e332	If I'm allowed to give a simple answer, the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e337	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e340	I would like to ask questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. When the United States went behind the UN Security Council before Christmas and launched military action against Iraq on its own, the Norwegian Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Norwegian Prime Minister were quickly out with clear support, although many other countries reacted more nuanced, and this was a controversial and unilateral action by the United States and subsequently also by the United Kingdom. In these days, the actions continue. I would like to hear if the Minister for Foreign Affairs believes that this is a wise strategy in relation to Iraq and in relation to the despot Saddam Hussein. Or does it not seem that Saddam Hussein has been strengthened in the Arab countries and not as isolated as before, nor in relation to Russia and its own people?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e347	There were many questions here, but I'm going to try to answer most of them. If I get to start with the last thing the representative Halvorsen said, namely that Saddam Hussein is strengthened in the Arab world: I think it's wrong. We can see that, among other things. In view of what happened at the Arab Foreign Minister's meeting, I think it was, where Iraq was just treated, when the Iraqi delegation – I think it was too much. three days ago – stormed out because it felt that it was not getting through for its vision. With regard to Norway and the Norwegian Prime Minister and Foreign Minister being so quick to comment, I would also like to refute it. I had an enormous pressure to make statements and was told that if I still wanted to be Minister of Foreign Affairs, I had to say something soon. So it wasn't perceived, at least not by the media, as if I was out quickly. We have also checked what is being claimed, namely that other countries have been so much more nuanced than us. If we look at NATO allies, that's not right, according to the information I've collected from other NATO countries. But when it comes to the matter itself, I want to say first of all that I personally and the Government of course deeply regret what has happened in the last few days, that civil life has gone on. We have to remember again what was the starting point for this. These grounding zones were established, if I do not remember faults, in 1991 and 1992. This was due to serious assault by Saddam Hussein's side against Shia Muslims in the south and Kurds in the north. That's where the two grounding zones are. We must not forget that this was a measure to protect innocent civilians and minorities in Iraq. I've tried, but I haven't been able to provide enough information about what happened yesterday or yesterday, which made civil life go on. But I have, as the representative Halvorsen will be familiar with, addressed to the UN Security Council that this is a matter which should go back to the UN Security Council and be dealt with further there.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e358	We are pleased with that on the SV side. We fear that the actions that are now taking place against Iraq and Saddam Hussein may have the opposite effect of what is desirable on the part of the world society, namely to weaken Saddam Hussein as much as possible and to ensure that there can be a different regime in place gradually, which will be the only possibility in the long term to control weapons of mass destruction, namely that there is a willingness in Iraq to limit this. Also in relation to the role of the United Nations, the way in which the United States went behind the Security Council is very harmful. I do not agree that there is a clear reaction on the part of the Arab world that Saddam Hussein is not strengthened. I think that among most people in the street, Saddam Hussein is a bigger hero than before. In relation to Russia, the way the United States went forward is a clear provocation, and this is a conflict in which the Russians have had greater resistance than in very many other conflicts. [[The President clubs.]] Is it not wise for Norway now to take the initiative to stop this type of action and bring sanctions against Iraq into a completely new path?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e366	The President noted that the speaking time limit applies to all representatives as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e369	That there is a will in Iraq for another regime is not easy to see today, but we have hope. I agree with the representative Halvorsen that most of the people have probably come to terms with Saddam Hussein. But I think it's very important to remember that among Arab leaders he has less support today than for example. during the Gulf War in 1991 and beyond. I also agree with Mr Halvorsen that this is a matter that should be addressed to the UN Security Council. That's why we've taken an initiative in the way that I've dealt with this with the US and British Foreign Minister. Norway is not a member of the Security Council, but we are in good contact with some members of the Security Council, and we have been active towards Security Council members in looking at the general political situation vis-à-vis Iraq, but also the humanitarian situation. We'll keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e376	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e379	I have a question for our Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade. At the last year's National Meeting of the Left, the Council of State strongly advocated an embellishment of the stoppage of immigration. He wanted to increase the number of people who would come to Norway in addition to all those who are coming today, by 2,000. He wanted to use some kind of lottery or tombola system based on the American green card method. He thought it would help to strengthen the Norwegian economy and reduce xenophobia. The Council of State promised to take this up in the College of Government. Is it done, and what was the result?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e386	One must be able to say that this is something on the side of what is a Minister of Industry's constitutional responsibility, but is equally fully a political question to one who is also a party leader. It is true that I suggested that in a situation where, among other things, Enterprises are struggling with skilled labour, could make this offensive, that we could look at opportunities to take on skilled labour, give those who have something to give to the Norwegian community in different areas, access to Norway. I showed you, among other things: to the U.S. system, where you saw that you were distributing quotas and giving rise to a desired immigration, if you want to do so from the country of destination, and I showed that there are many good examples out there. As we see from the government's policy, we have, among other things, have been awarded an embellishment in relation to access for foreign students, including: from the third world, which is in Norway and takes training relevant to Norwegian enterprises, to get work here. Our policy here has been that they should leave the country, preferably back to their own country, but some have chosen to travel to Canada and America, for example, which has been common to many who have received special training in IT. So we've got an embellishment here. In fact, I believe that in the debate on multicultural society there could have improved a lot on many of the Nordics' views on this issue if we could have also had such a kind of immigration of people that we actually need and that fill key positions in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e395	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is clear that there may be key staff missing from Norway, for example: IT engineers from India, or people in the oil sector, etc., but it's actually an opening to give these personnel work permits in Norway today. Switzerland has practised a system of voluntary employment contracts between the employer and the employee without providing a residence permit for the immediate family. Switzerland has been able to smooth out the fluctuations in unemployment in Switzerland in an excellent way. Is there a model the Council of State might think of looking at also for Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e404	It is a big question to have to take on the kick, but let me say that I do not feel any immediate joy over such a model. My idea is that we should give people who want to make the North off and who can also fill important positions in the Norwegian community, as we actively need, the opportunity not only to get into the country and commute out and into a job, but also to become Norwegians – including their families. It was the idea behind this play, which we see has a parallel in very many countries, where people are applying to change citizenship on the basis of such a green card or such a quota system.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e409	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e412	I want to follow up on this, because the play to Sponheim about a green card scheme is one of the plays I like best from the council. It was probably like the left-leader he brought it. Some of the things that concern us in the day are the problems of multicultural society. It is quite clear that very many of those who come here as refugees and asylum seekers – both adults and children – are traumatised and that they will have difficulties adapting to a normal life without much support from society. SV's opinion is that they don't get enough. I see it as Sponheim's play was aimed at getting a different and more sensible reason for the multicultural society than for refugees and asylum seekers with difficult experiences to bear the positive of this society with them. Does the Council of State see that there is pure labour immigration as it is, or is the Council of State willing to see that it has an ice-cream that in multicultural society and multicultural Norway can be a positive element in itself?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e421	Let me first say that I very much agree with what is the premise of Andersen's line, namely that Norway should be a good haven for people in need who need such a place of refuge, and I think that many people agree with it. It also puts an extra touch on the multicultural element in our society, because there are people who are in a difficult situation and often act afterwards. That's why it's important, I think, that we also have an islet of people coming here in a more normal situation. That was my main reason for this proposal. But it's allowed to have more thoughts in your head at the same time. People who have an honest desire to come here and become Norwegian citizens, bring with them their family and their knowledge and will do a good job, can also contribute to building and changing Norwegian attitudes to multicultural society. We may be moving towards a slightly shifting society in that we are now entering a new century, where lack of labour can become a very big problem, even if it cannot feel like an acute problem, and that such questions may be a basis for slightly different attitudes in Norwegian society and open up so that more people can come here and become Norwegians.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e428	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e432	The Minister of Industry has announced to the Stortinget – first in the context of the IT plan presented last February, and then in a big message on the same issue – that it will take the initiative to review legislative barriers to immigration for people working in the information technology sector. Now the situation is that it is one year since the IT plan was presented. In contact with the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice reports that no regulatory changes or changes to the legislation have been made to the effect that more people with an information technology background may be granted a residence permit in Norway, even though the Minister has also emphasised that Norwegian business needs it. What does the Council of State think about such a slow procedure, that the plan one year after it was presented, and where one of the main points was how to gain more competence for Norway, has not been followed up?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e439	Let me first say that within the law and regulation we have, there is an opportunity to exercise discretion, and it can be exercised somewhat more liberally than what has been done in the past. That's what this government has done. I have to admit that I have been in contact with a lot of companies that are struggling with this particular problem, and that experience a completely unfair treatment for those key personnel who are going out of the country. I have received a lot of good feedback on the changed use of the rules that the Government is now practicing. In addition, as the representative here also says, in the business-oriented IT plan we have announced that we want to look at the legislation to open this access even more to key personnel if possible, including key personnel. Indians, mentioned in a previous question. That work is in progress. We have not come up with any legislation yet. The Ministry of Industry is very interested in getting this going, and we have a driving role here in front of the Ministry of Justice. We are in the process of preparatory work, and I hope that we will be able to come up fairly quickly with changes in the rules that are going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e444	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e447	I would like to ask the Minister of Industry a question that concerns an industry that does not have too little labour, but something too much, that is, the yard industry. The shipbuilding industry is very important to Norway. These are 10,000 jobs plus ring-fences — perhaps beyond 30,000 jobs — mainly in the districts. The majority in this room have agreed that we should reduce aid rates unilaterally in Norway, so that we now lose out on the competition for assignments, which in turn leads to permits. The majority, who were for this, said they wanted to join, and in the newspaper today, the leader of the Joint League, Kjell Bjørndalen, demands that the support rates should be raised immediately. Will the Minister of Industry follow this up?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e454	I agree with the representative's starting point that we are being given worrying information from many agencies about the problems of obtaining new orders. We see from the order intake in 1998 that orders of approximately NOK 4 billion were placed, while the average of the four years before was between NOK 11 and 12 billion, with a very extreme peak in 1998 above NOK 20 billion. We know that at this turn of the year, a few weeks ago, there was an order quantity of approximately NOK 19 billion, and the total capacity in Norwegian yards is estimated by the industry itself to be NOK 8-10 billion. But the perilous thing is – as I also heard the leader of the Joint Federation Kjell Bjørndalen say in Political Quarter this morning early – that, although for most people there is no acute situation, it can quickly sail through the year because you do not get new orders. On that basis, the government is now working on a blast with a full review of the situation, as the Stortinget asked through the budget conciliation before Christmas. We will then come back to Stortinget with a summary of what actually happened at the end of last year. We run and collect contracts to get the overall overview, then come back to Stortinget with proposals for possible action. The government is now working too hard on this. It has been said in the past that we will come back to the revised national budget, but I see it as probable that we will be able to come back to the Stortinget before that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e459	I thank you for your answer. I'm glad that the Department of Industry, the Minister of Industry and the Government have now come to realize that this was the wrong way to go, that it is not really possible to put an industry in a completely different competitive position than we are competing with. One's talking about at 1.5 pst. Not that much. The Minister of Industry didn't say that now, but there are small margins in the industry, and it's urgent, because even if there's not so many places to leave, there are actually some places. It takes some time to get this back on the rails. Then it is important that the Council of State works very quickly and returns to Stortinget, so that it gets as little ringing as possible. Does it mean that the Council of State sees that it was wrong to reduce these rates?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e466	I will not forge the contents of what the Government will come back to Stortinget with. But we will come back with a full review of the situation and with measures that we believe are necessary in this situation. I don't know if it will satisfy the representative's need to have the impression that the government has got its eyes up. In any case, I note that from this government joined and took over the Jagland government budget in the autumn of 1997, where in fact reductions in yard support of 1.5 pst. The Workers' Party has obviously got its eyes up in opposition for the first time. Then we'll see what measures the government will come back with. I think it is important in this situation to stress, and it also underlines the industry itself, that the yard support is probably a relatively small element of lost competitiveness. We feel that there are extremely difficult market conditions, not least related to the cloning that, among other things, are in Korea, where shipyards can build very cheaply with the funding they seem to have received through the crisis. It is said that hulls are built below steel price, and it is difficult to compete against.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e473	Gunhild Eyering – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e476	The dramatic situation in the yard industry has been known for a long time. The working party has taken it inwards. I hear the government is now considering taking it inwards. Fully competitive shipyards have lost out on millions of contracts due to unequal conditions of competition. I would like to stress that this has very often been due to the gap between the level of aid in the EU and what we have in Norway. I think the government has to take that inward as well. I want to refer to financial director Arnstein Ugland at Fosen Mek. Workshops, who say that the confusion that the Government has now created can actually work against its purpose by the shipowners waiting for clarification about the level of the yard support. Can the Minister of Industry promise that we will get a clarification quickly, and can one suggest a time for that clarification?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e487	The government is concerned about this situation, which I have expressed, and we will come back to the Storting as quickly as we can. But it is necessary when a government prepares a case for the Storting, that we have the empirical basis and the numerical basis that must be the basis for a proper decision. It's enough that there's been some turbulence around this system. I think we should admit that. But that turbulence, I think, the government without being too rude should be able to share with others, because the turmoil surrounding the size of the yard support occurred already in the autumn of 1997 – in fact before this government joined – because of the uncertainty surrounding the proposal made by the government of Jagland. We saw how an entire year's order mass was collected at the end of the year. Much of this happened, among other things. immediately after the submission of that budget. So let's divide by this. So we got over $20 billion in order entry in the last year, only in 1998, and much less than in 1997/98.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e494	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e498	I'll be allowed to ask a question to the Minister of Industry. One might well say that the Minister of Economic Affairs should be the specialist council which perhaps has the greatest overview of state ownership in whole-time and rented state enterprises. The Ministry of Economic Affairs also manages most of the shareholdings in this type of enterprise. District policy in this country has been driven both through state ownership in enterprises, and especially in companies that have had a monopoly situation in the market, as well as, of course, the posts on the state budget. Now the prime minister talked about how he felt a little bored about this with double standards. I'm not going to blame anyone in the government parties for that, but double communication has to be able to say at least that they specialize in, because only in today's newspapers do we see that you have very different approaches to this. My question is, is it in the real world today, in the competitive situation we have, an appropriate instrument to use the country's ownership as a body to pursue district policy?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e509	Yesterday's debate on state ownership and also the opinions of the next CEO of a large telecommunications company provided the basis for quite a number of misunderstandings yesterday, and we see that there have been some dementias. I would like to stress what Tormod Hermansen said that it must be a misunderstanding when he says that this new company should not carry out district policy tasks. What he says he has said is that the company should not pursue district policy. That's what the Storting and the Government are going to do, and it's doing the Storing and the Government. With regard to the new telecommunications market and competition in the telecommunications market, there are likely to be new governance mechanisms available to governments. We also do this through laws, regulations and concession terms, and we can demand, among other things, by regulating the operators in the telecommunications market. coverage in the country to be actors in the Norwegian telecommunications market. It is also stated in the Memorandum of Understanding between the company Telenor and the Swedish company Telia that these tasks are important for these companies in the respective countries and, of course, comply with the laws, regulations and concessional conditions of these countries. Let me also underline an important governance tool that we have in this area. At the moment we move to a market that works, and that's competition, and in that way we don't get as low as we were before when there was a monopoly in this area, as the representative mentions, we're going to a more demand-driven system, where some of the governance tools are in the way of stimulating demand in order to get the coverage you want. As you know, it is in the budget that the Stortinget has now adopted, among other things. a budget line allowing for the provision of the outermost regions, where there is no financial basis for the provision of telecommunications services and, for example: a high-speed line, a grant in addition to the enterprise and local authorities themselves can contribute to the creation of a commercial basis to facilitate these services.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e518	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State. Now it wasn't Hermansen that I had in mind what was involved in double communication. He is one of the more clearly-intentioned of those who are within this area, and the dementia for him I do not need so far. It is the politicians who represent the government parties that I have in mind, because I agree with the Council of State that it is primarily through concessional conditions that this should be regulated. I therefore agree with what the Minister for Transport says in this area in today's Business today. But I note that in the debate in Television last night in the NRK and, to some extent, in today's Business today, the head of the Business Committee and probably the head of the Central Party – and as far as I have understood the Prime Minister's wish, he is also going into the Government – has a slightly different view of this. He is very concerned that we should not also use ownership as a means of running district policies. What is the Government's concrete position on this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e525	The government’s view of this is clearly defined in the case area already dealt with by the Storting through regulatory issues in this area, through concessional conditions, which is the main management tool for taking the necessary territorial policy considerations into account. I also have the basic faith, and that's a little bit of the point of helping to establish what we can call a Nordic solution for a future telecommunications sector, that it's easier, when you run such a company, to get an understanding of Norwegian, special circumstances and to be able to take such considerations, when you know your country, is happy in your country. I think it's important, given the arguments we use in other areas, and the need to have research and development work, headquarters, etc. in the country. Once we have reached a solution where Telenor's Director will be CEO of such a company, we can have expectations that there is a reasonable understanding of the Norwegian community and Norwegian values when this company is also to be managed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e532	Last main questions will be asked by Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e535	My question goes to the Prime Minister and borders on the same theme as had recently been addressed to the Minister of Industry. I would also like to assume that yesterday the Vice President of the Centre demanded equivalent telecommunications offers and equal prices throughout the country, while the Minister of Transport on TV2 showed that price formation is free. Once again, we have to ask the question: what is really the government's opinion when the different parties obviously represent different views? Will there also be equivalent telecommunications services, equivalent prices, services and services in all parts of the country in the future, and what tool will the Government use to achieve it in a situation where Telenor becomes a listed company? I registered that the Minister of Industry pointed out that there are different possibilities to do so. My question to the Prime Minister is: What tools, if any, will be used if the Government is determined by what has previously been a prerequisite?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e544	This was also stated yesterday by the Minister for Transport in the public debate. There will be concession terms, and there will be legislation and regulations. In my opinion, it should also be the case in a future merged company, as in today's Telenor, that there are these instruments that the Government and public authorities use to get equivalent telecommunications offers across the country. What I think might be even more interesting is whether we can eventually get even lower telecommunications prices in Norway than we have. I think that can actually be the basis for the increased efficiency that the merged company will represent. Norway is well under way today in the field of telecommunications. We have relatively low prices compared to most other countries, the network is well developed, and it is the government's firm belief that this should be continued through the new powerful Nordic unit that we now get if the bulk of the population joins that proposal The government will recommend the merger of Telia and Telenor.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e551	I note that the debate has shown the basic telecommunications services to be present throughout the country. At the same time, there's going to be a little bit of a static consideration because the technological change is happening very quickly. It is likely that in the future, one of the main regional policy challenges will be to ensure that all parts of the country have access to the technological innovations in data and telecommunications coming. It may also ensure through the concession terms referred to by the Prime Minister, including: for Telenor. Will the Government do so — not only to provide the basic services, but also to ensure that the most up-to-date technological innovations are made available in the districts, so that districts can participate in the information and technology society under development?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e556	Yes, I think it is very reasonable that one also forms the basis for new concession terms. As you know, companies that have more than 25 pst. the market must have a concession and there is no doubt that the new merged company will have it. At my discretion, the new telecommunications technology represents a special opportunity for the districts. It reduces the distance costs, it allows job decentralisation, it allows jobs to be held around the home in a completely different way and to a different extent than in the past. Then there's something important to steer towards the districts, there's equivalent telecommunications provision, not just in the traditional telephone area, but in the new areas that are opening up, on which the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen quite correctly mentioned the example. So here I believe that the Labour Party and the Government and certainly a broad majority of the Storting agree on the main lines.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e563	The time for the oral Question Time is now over, and we're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e569	In view of the high number of questions to be answered, the President considers that he has to be informed by reference to Rule 53(3) of the Rules of Procedure. The last 3 paragraphs have determined that only one supplementary question will be raised after the main question has been answered. This is considered necessary for the current map to be completed within the scheduled time of the morning meeting. Furthermore, the President will announce that there will be a number of changes in the set-up of the question list and will refer in this context to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 12, from the representative Tor Nymo to the Minister for Fisheries, is postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 13, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Food and Trade on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries, who has been removed. Questions 18-25, from the representatives of Ane Sofie Tölmrås, Jørn L. Stang, Karita Bekkekellem Orheim, Ågot Valle, Jan Johnsen, Øystein Djupedal, Vidar Kleppe and Anne Helen Rui respectively to the Minister for Justice, will be answered by the Minister for Church, Education and Research on behalf of the Minister for Justice, who has a medical history. Question 26, from the representative Synnøve Konglevoll to the Minister for Labour and Administration, will be raised by the representative Tomas Norvoll. In addition, questions 31 to 33 were answered in response to questions 25.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e591	I have the following questions for the Prime Minister: ‘In its New Year speech to the Norwegian people, the Prime Minister informed the Government that the Government will take an initiative for a broad mobilisation against violence and said that cooperation between homes, schools, municipalities and voluntary organisations can contribute to a safer society. When will this initiative be presented, and will implementation be managed by a separate secretariat with an adequate budget?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e600	The fight against violence and crime is already a high priority in the political basis of the Central Government – the Adult Declaration. This was also underlined in the government statement, which included: is: ‘A society with transparency and belonging, fair distribution and good growth conditions for children and young people prevents crime. The Government will increase efforts to combat everyday crime and organised crime.’ In order to combat violence in public places, particularly in urban nightlife, a rapid government committee was set up on 2 July last year to identify measures and propose measures to combat the increasing use of raw violence in Oslo. The plan, called ‘Security in the Centre’, was presented on 22 September. It is primarily aimed at combating violence in public places in Oslo and other major urban centres, but several of the proposals have a significant impact on violence prevention in general. Some measures involve targeted efforts by the police to be visible both in order to prevent and to be able to intervene at an early stage in the event of any violence. It is also proposed to strengthen cooperation with local authorities in order to achieve cross-border cooperation. Transnational work includes municipal offices, police and voluntary bodies. The follow-up to the «Centre of Safety» is carried out on the basis of a separate plan which has now been drawn up, together with the other departments. Liability for follow-up has been added to the Ministry of Justice. Let me mention some of the measures that will be followed up. Firstly, all municipalities and schools are required to develop local action plans against bullying and violence. The Ministry of Churches, Education and Research and the Parental Committee of Primary Schools have distributed guidance material for work against bullying in schools for teachers, students and parents. Material has been developed for childhood, youth and secondary education. Secondly, the school mediation system is extended so that both primary and secondary education can be offered this scheme. Thirdly, the government is in favour of both primary and secondary schools having their own police contacts. Fourthly, the Ministry of Children and Family has its own scheme of grants aimed at youth work in larger cities. In recent years, support has been given to a number of projects and organisations aimed at preventing and combating violence, violence and crime. Fifthly, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has a number of measures of a more preventive nature in the areas of racism, discrimination, living conditions and large cities. As shown by what I have said here and by the Government's Action Plan on Security in the Centre, a number of measures have been proposed that will be followed up by the Government and individual departments. Even in a short time, I'm going to have a meeting with immigrant youth and immigrant parents to discuss, among other things. the development of crime. There is also a need to strengthen the police. The distribution of the 1999 budget by the Ministry of Justice has resulted in 75 new posts for Oslo, among others. to get a more visible police force. In the view of the Government, action is now important. Resources should be deployed both to prevent and to ensure that crimes are investigated, cleared, convicted and punished. This must be more important than building a separate secretariat – with more bureaucracy, as the representative Hagen suggests.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e631	I thank you for an expected and also expected disappointing response. I say that, because I think the Norwegian people expected an initiative for some organized campaign, that could be followed up month by month, that had some resources, that had some who controlled that the plans they had were followed up, and that you could evaluate and measure the results in one to two years. What the Prime Minister really meant when he said that he wanted to take an initiative for a broad mobilisation against violence was simply to make a compilation of largely existing work done in most departments, done in the police and done in school, i.e. no new initiative or any drive or implementation of anything, but a compilation of words – the very opposite of what the Prime Minister now said, that action is necessary. It also turns out in practice that when he talks about increasing and strengthening the efforts of the police, the opposite is actually happening. Would the Prime Minister not agree that the Norwegian people have reason to be disappointed when there is no initiative, but again just a lot of words?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e640	No, this is not a compilation of words, these were concrete measures. It disappoints me that every time the representative Hagen is presented with concrete measures, he says that there are only words, and then he wants other and new measures. I think it is much more important now that we specifically discuss the measures we have taken and that are initiated, rather than just saying that we need to have other measures. Why not discuss those that we're knowingly presenting, that will be followed up and that we'll measure the result of, instead of saying that there's something else we need and that we need a secretariat? – Of all, it was to come from the Progress Party, which started as a party to combat bureaucracy. No, it's not right, even though Hagen repeats it, that this government is just talking. This government has repeatedly presented measures that are in progress and measures that will be taken. Then I think it's much more fruitful that you discuss them, instead of questioning them and saying that they're just words. In addition to what I have just explained, I can add that the Minister of Justice, on questions in the UK, has also said that she will present an overall plan of action – the corresponding action plan against violence – and fight child and youth crime in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e652	I would like to ask the Prime Minister the following questions: ‘The Minister of State, in his New Year’s speech, was committed to combating violence. Now Oslo's statistics show that about 80 pst. by all young people under the age of 20 in Oslo, young people with a foreign background. What will the Prime Minister and the Government do with this?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e661	Developments in Oslo are very worrying. Ran has total increments of 20 pst. from 1997 to 1998. Businesses and kiosks in particular have shown growth. At the same time, the figures from Oslo show that 25 pst. victims are children and young people under the age of 19. Half of the perpetrators are under 20 years of age. Of these, 80 are pst. of foreign origin, mainly from Africa and Asia. They often act in associations. The fight must focus on both reproduction and other specific reasons why young people with a migrant background commit crimes of this kind. Efforts must consist of immediate action to address this unacceptable crime and of longer-term preventive measures to prevent re-entry and relapse. In this work it is important that all good forces engage. The government will give this work a high priority. At the same time, broad mobilisation is important, where non-governmental organisations, not least parents, take responsibility. This should be done in close cooperation with the public institutions. Close action will have to be taken by the Oslo police districts to a large extent, and they will pay particular attention to the research problem. Oslo Police District, as mentioned earlier in the Questionnaire today, has been awarded a significant number of new posts, 75 this year, which can help meet this challenge. The increased manning will be used for more visible police present in places, and at times, where criminal acts often take place. It will make it less tempting to behave. As part of a targeted work against rans and gangs who commit rans, Oslo is undertaking its own rendition project to upset the rest of the world, weaken and, if necessary, remove the leadership strata and prevent reintroduction. The General Organisation of Trade and Service Industries, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, has launched an action to secure business against fraud. This is a good example of how good forces can work together towards common goals. I will also mention the cooperation established between the Red Cross, the Church's City Mission and the Youth Against Violence in Oslo. One of their main areas of activity is work against risky young people with a foreign background. As an example, I mention that as early as tomorrow, Oslo Red Cross and Ministry of Children's and Family Affairs are organising a seminar on the law and criminal responses, focusing primarily on the work of young immigrants. Nevertheless, parents may be the most important group. Fresh studies show that risky young people with a foreign background are little with their family. Only a few of them will seek support from their parents in difficult situations. It suggests that a greater parental exposure and responsibility will have a significant preventive effect. Therefore, targeted action against parents with a foreign background will be central, both through health and social issues, kindergartens and schools, but also through the work of immigrant organisations themselves. They have the same interest in fighting crime as the rest of society. Even in a short time I will have a meeting, as mentioned, both with immigrant youth and something later with immigrant parents, to discuss, among other things. the development of crime. It is also appropriate to mention that the Oslo Internal East action programme is a broad initiative with specific actions targeting children and young people with a migrant background. The programme involves several departments and departments in the municipality of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e682	I thank the Prime Minister for a thorough answer, which was in all the areas I think it is important to concentrate on. But I want to say one thing on the mindset first: what is the reason why young people can be recruited into gangs, who often have very strict internal discipline? The main reason is that they feel outside a community. That's why it's extremely important how to talk about this problem that's about young people with immigrant background and crime, because regardless of whether it's 80 pst. by those who commit such a background, there are a few individuals involved. They have an individual responsibility for what they have done. Those who stay on the narrow path and who are more law-abiding than youth else in Norway should not be put in the same booth. If we put young people with immigrant background in one booth and most people get the impression that they're mostly criminals, you fire up under the gangs, who want to get hold of them. Secondly, in terms of systematic work, school leisure arrangements, kindergartens, all day-to-day work, the government must think quite differently from what it has done now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e691	I think the representative, Halvorsen, was concerned with important causes of what is happening. I also think it is necessary to find that immigrants in Norway are not generally overrepresented in crime statistics for some types of crime – on the contrary. But what's a regrettable fact is that they're overrepresented in terms of violence and ransack. I believe that attitude-building is important. I think, for example, the importance of getting immigrant parents to attend parental meetings at school and elsewhere in which the issue of violence is addressed is enormous, and proper action should be taken to ensure that they do so. I also believe that the exclusion mechanisms as part of immigrant youth experience in Norwegian society are important to go in and discuss with them, and that we are not just outside preaching what we think is the cause. This takes the Government seriously, and we do so to the extent that, as I said, the Prime Minister himself wants to have a discussion with representatives of these environments to see how we can bring the problem to life.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e703	I will ask the Minister for Culture the following questions: ‘According to the media, the Minister of Culture wants to grant 1 million. krona for Arne Myhrvold's possible president's job in the EOC [[European Olympic Committee]] What budget is the money allocated over, and is this in line with the main priority of the sport message for increasing activity among children and young people as well as sport?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e712	On 30 December last year, the Norwegian Sports Association and the Olympic Committee, NIF, applied to the Ministry of Culture for support for the financing of the position as sports director of the European Olympic Committee, the ECC. The EOC is an association of the National Olympic Committees in 48 countries. The background to the EOC’s approach to NEF is the organisation’s desire to strengthen technical and organisational assistance to its member countries. Today, the EOC has a secretariat in Rome, funded by the Italian Olympic Committee, CONI. In St.meld. No 41 for 1991-92 on Sport – movement and popular entertainment, was one of Harlem Brundtland’s objectives: «International work must highlight the fundamental values of sport: a free and independent, democratic people's organisation, respecting individual needs, rights and the interests of the community, and with clear preparedness for economic, political and human manipulation.» All lots, with the exception of the Advance Party, joined and expressed them in the Innst. S. No 28 for 1992-93: ‘The more important it becomes that Norwegian sports movement and our authorities strengthen their work for a healthier and more democratic development in international sport.’ This has been the basis of the Ministry's policy in the field in the 1990s. In 1996, the Ministry of Culture thus pledged to support NIF’s efforts to host the Secretariat of the International Paralympic Committee, the IPC, which organises Paralympics for people with reduced mobility. The IPC chose Berlin because the economic offer was larger than the Norwegian one. On 13 January the Ministry of Culture committed an annual earmarked allocation of 1 million, assuming that the Board of Directors agreed to assume the obligation with the EOC position. kr over a period of three years. Any expenditure in addition to the ministry’s contribution to an NIF exposure to tasks within the EOC is entirely a matter for the NCI. The Board of Directors adopted at its meeting on 13 January 1999 ‘that it is in principle positive for Norwegian sport that we get representatives of Norwegian sport into international positions as employees or trustees. It provides increased opportunities to work on issues of Norwegian sport priority. The funds for the post, if applicable, will be taken from the resources available for the current year and will be entered for the following year as an earmarked item in the Ministry's allocation to the NIF. Finally, I would like to stress that it is important that Norwegian sport engages in international work, not least at a time when it seems important to influence international sports organisations in ways that are widely agreed in our country. This important work, as mentioned, is one of our priority areas.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e741	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is true that there is a partial objective to promote Norwegian values in international positions in sport. However, the main objective of the sport communication was, of course, an increase in activity for children and young people, and it needs to be strongly justified in reversing this priority in favour of international action. In the big news, what the Council of State says about international work is true, and my question to her is: is it that the EOC, which is a small under-use of the IOC, promotes the fundamental values of sport as a free and independent, democratic people's organisation, respecting rights and the interests of the community, and which is clearly prepared for economic, political and human manipulation? Can the Council of State say that the EOC is an organisation that promotes precisely these values?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e748	There is no doubt that the international Olympic movement, be it the IOC or the EOC, is facing major challenges, among other things. on the considerations that I mentioned and that were contained in the big message that we have based on for the 1990s. I therefore think it is important that we follow up the signals that were given that we should take international responsibility and try to obtain Norwegian values in these organisations. That is why, on the basis of the NIF board decisions, we have agreed to such a solution. As far as the NIF is concerned, there is a democratic movement that we have in Norway, built up in a way that I count on the representative Fossum knows very well. So we're dealing with governance decisions in the NIF and we want to say that we want to strengthen the Norwegian interests and values of international sport.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e756	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Culture: ‘For approx. a year ago the News Channel cancelled its local TV broadcasts in Oslo after only six months of operation. The company NYTV, which was given the concession for such shipments, undertook to start shipments quickly and announced the start of the shipment on 1 January 1999. This has not been achieved, and the start-up has now shifted to the harvest. How does the State Council assess the situation of local TV in Oslo?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e765	For the sake of order, let me make it clear that it is Staten's media administration that is the local TV concession authority. According to information received by the Ministry of Culture from the State Media Administration, from the beginning of February, NYTV is to produce and send local consignments for Oslo. The company expects to be on the air five days a week with a half-hour magazine. This will be in addition to the programmes undertaken by NYTV partners. Under the editorial responsibility of NYTV it is now sent approx. 35 hours per day. month with programmes from different local actors. Due to refinancing problems, NYTV has decided to postpone the full launch of its planned TV concept by August/September 1999. Then they have to send approx. 8 hours every night, 3-4 hours will be locally produced. The state media administration has accepted these changes in the progress plan. It is of course very unfortunate that it has been so difficult to obtain permanent broadcasts with local television in Oslo. However, it is clear that the concessionaire has concluded agreements with former local TV concessionaries in Oslo. These will now have an opportunity to reach their target audiences. This concerns both jobs and large investments. State media administration has shown an understanding of the problems the concessionaire has had. But it goes without saying that there has to be a limit on how far you can go. In the light of the information currently available, it appears that this case may be the subject of an acceptable solution.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e783	I thank the Council of State for the answer. As you know, local TV transmission frequencies are a very limited resource. Last year, Stortinget said no to expand with an additional channel. As I also mentioned, the new company that was formed on the rest of the News Channel has for a year tried to raise capital to get started, but has not been able to do so. The launch is now suspended for another six months. I think it is right to ask if you should not re-issue the concession so that others could have the opportunity to apply and you could deal with this matter. With regard to the local concessionaries who have been allowed to send in the meantime, I would also like to ask the Council of State if she will help them to continue this cooperation, possibly with NYTV, until the autumn, when the actual broadcasts start.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e790	Let me be the first to admit that there is an unfortunate situation that has arisen. Of course, if there were any further delays, we would consider instructing the state media administration to set a final deadline for when regular shipments must have started. If this deadline is then not met, the concession must be withdrawn and re-examined. In the case of local concessionaires who are now able to send during the period we are in, the representative asks Lånker if cooperation can continue even after the scheduled transmissions start in August/September. I think that's a very reasonable idea. I cannot stand here and say that they will cooperate, but I believe that one in this area can see opportunities for cooperation arrangements that could mean finding a solution to everyone's satisfaction. It has to be a goal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e800	I will ask the Minister for Children and Family Affairs the following questions: ‘The defence shall send soldiers to kindergartens and kindergartens in Trøndelag in connection with ‘Battle Griffin’. It is important to show special care to children, and children react very differently according to age, background and maturity. Especially do we want to spare children for violence, death and war. We place great demands on those who work in schools and kindergartens, and on the arrangements and training offered to the children. Does the Council of State consider that the outline of the defence scheme is appropriate and professionally appropriate to small children?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e809	Initially to the problem where Anneliese Dørum says that the defense should send soldiers: I will correct it that the defense has offered a visit by soldiers if kindergartens and schools want to receive them. In connection with "Battle Griffin" there will be many soldiers in Trøndelag. Such an exercise cannot take place without the community being aware of it. It can also work scary if you don't know what's going on. Both kindergarten and school should be active in relation to society around them. This is laid out in the plan for both kindergarten and school. I see it as positive that the children were made aware of what is happening in the community. In kindergarten as well as in school, the activities shall be conducted in understanding and cooperation with the homes. I assume that the arrangements offered by the defense in connection with this specific exercise are discussed in parental councils and cooperation selections in the kindergartens and schools in question. I also assume that pediatricians and vice-chancellors have assessed whether the scheme is suitable for those children who are in debt, and that special attention is given to children with a background from a warring country. Diplomas and principals are competent to make such assessments. When an extensive exercise is about to take place in the defense of its rule in Trøndelag, it is important that the kindergartens and the schools are informed and able to tell the children what this means, and why such an exercise is successful. In connection with this exercise, the defense has provided information to the kindergartens, both to provide factual information and to prevent children from being rescued, in the same way as for example. Police representatives may come to the institutions to provide information on their work. Such cooperation projects have long traditions both in kindergarten and school. I thought it was good that the defense took this initiative. Such major exercises will always have an impact on the environment in which they go. Their initiative suggests that they take responsibility for the best possible prior knowledge of the exercise, so that it does not cause undue harm or cause undue distress to children. On the contrary, they can see that the solar data is common people, they too.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e822	I assume that the Council of State, which has a special responsibility for our young children, has conferenceed with its professionals on the professional structure, and whether this scheme is suitable for as young children as kindergarten children and children in primary school. I just know that the Children's Ombudsman has spoken negatively about this action, and thinks it is unfortunate. Children need information and it is important to avoid being frightened or becoming insecure about military activity in the community. But the information should come from someone who knows the children and the individual assumptions that each individual has. The defence claims that information is necessary for the safety of children both in the context of changed traffic conditions and harmful objects that are deposited or retreaded. However, children of this young age cannot be held responsible for their own safety; parents, kindergartens and schools must be involved. I understand that the Council of State approves this arrangement, and I am disappointed about it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e833	Now I am not the one who has authority to neither approve nor reject this scheme. And I must honestly admit that when I heard about this for the first time, my reaction was also as the representative of Dørum has been in the question and the follow-up. But when I went in and looked at the setup, I was very calm. What might be a problem, of course, is that this is going to happen to the kids, that is, they meet the exercise without knowing anything about it in advance. I would also like to stress that when this information is to be provided, it is not the case that the preschool teachers, kindergarten staff or teachers should leave the classroom and leave the whole arena to soldiers. Of course, this must be done in cooperation between professional personnel and soldiers, so that children are properly informed. I agree with the representative Dørum that children cannot be held responsible for their own security, but I still think it is important that they receive this information in such a good and educational way that they are not intimidated when things happen in their neighborhood.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e843	I have this question to the Minister for Children and Family: ‘In the context of recently provided statistics from the Oslo Police Chamber on violence and crime in Oslo, it is clear that child protection needs to be mobilised and schooled more, in order to allow the problem to be addressed. What will the Council of State do to get through each youth case in order to acquire knowledge and find out what has failed, so that effective action can be taken?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e852	First of all, I would like to express my concern to Mr Valle's representative that we seem to have an increasing tendency towards violence and crime among children and young people. Among other things, it is alarming that so many young investigators have a migrant background — 80 pst. In fact. This is a challenge that goes far beyond child protection's responsibilities, but where child protection has to take, and takes, its part. The Ministry of Child and Family Affairs has, in various ways, engaged in the prevention of serious problems among children and young people. In the case of children and young people with a minority ethnic background, the Ministry will continue to facilitate measures in the prevention and auxiliary work. Among other things, we are working to systematise the knowledge of children, young people and families with refugee and immigrant backgrounds, and to continue the provision of training for child protection staff, especially in the larger cities and municipalities with many immigrants. Furthermore, we will strengthen guidance provision in counties and municipalities with a large immigrant population. I would also like to take the initiative for a broad open hearing on these issues. The Ministry of Child and Family Affairs has its own budget line for youth work in the larger cities. In recent years, we have invested a special effort in Oslo, Bergen and Trondheim, focusing on measures to expose groups of children and young people, young people with a migrant background, and measures and projects that can improve their leisure situation. Although much has been done to mitigate negative developments, there is still a need for commitment and approval from the Department. In 1997, the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs launched an action plan for children and young people with serious behavioural problems. As part of this, from 1 January 1998, the Department has funded a research project at the Psychological Institute, the University of Oslo. This research shall initiate own research into the prevention and treatment of behavioural disorders, alongside the provision of initial and continuing training in the treatment of this group. The research unit will also work with some treatment methods that can show documented and promising treatment results. Among other things, there is a cooperation with the Oregon Social Learning Center on a method of training parents and foster parents in interaction with children to promote positive and reduce negative behaviour. Another method, which also comes from the United States, and which will be used in Norway in cooperation with the county councils, is targeting the most criminally burdened with serious behavioral difficulties. This approach is based on strong involvement of parents, teachers and the community. [[President clubs]] Treatment takes place in the home environment with intensive follow-up of therapists... Yes, President, I have some left of my answer. It's a difficult problem, and I hope I can complete it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e863	With the consent of the Storting, the Council of State will be able to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e866	Thank you. This is a method that has shown good results. Between 25 and 70 pst. young people have reduced their criminal activity after four months of treatment. The desire to try out home-based interventions is strong among professionals because of the discouraging results of institutional treatment. Because not everyone can be treated at home, there is also an established contact with the relevant professional community in England to gain experience on which services must be provided if institutional treatment is to be closed. In order to improve the growing environment around the country, the Ministry has launched a new initiative — a development programme to strengthen the growing environment in both districts and cities. We want to strengthen and further develop child and youth policies through broad cooperation between public and voluntary forces, including those in the field of education and training. children and young people themselves. Better access for children and young people to participation, participation and measles is central to this programme. At the same time, efforts must be made to combat violence and bullying, violence and racism. Local mobilization is an important key to the effort, and it is the local ideas and initiatives that will be the basis and starting point for the work to be done. Currently, ten municipalities are involved in this venture. Finally, the electoral crime in Norway increased with nearly 5 pst. for the first three quarters of last year. We've had a slight rise in the 1990s. This shows, as I see it, that violence is a general social problem, but that is still no greater than that targeted efforts can produce good results. Both I and the rest of the Government will give priority to the work against violence and crime among children and young people in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e879	I thank you for the answer, which I think was good and complementary. I share the opinion of the Council of State that we must build here on systematic research and not on sight. However, many of the measures outlined by the Council of State will suffer both from a poorer local economy and from the fact that some of these measures have been balancing items in budgetary work together with the Right Party and the Progress Party. Lawyers who have defended those who have committed crimes are quite united in the fact that child protection, along with the rest of the auxiliaries, has to go quickly and provide rapid assistance and demarcation, and that child protection needs to be strengthened. We in SV have repeatedly called for an action plan, a systematic action plan for the development of competences that we all know is needed in the field of child protection, in particular competence in meeting parents and children with a multicultural background who are victims of discrimination and exclusion in society... [[President clubs]] On the whole, I would like to ask when the Council of State will come up with such an action plan, and if the Council of State will now take the initiative for a real increase, a strengthening of child protection, in the revised national budget. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e886	The President will notice that his tolerance is now becoming somewhat thin.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e889	It's an important topic, President.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e894	I believe the Prime Minister in the spontaneous Question Time today did well to say that when it comes to the bet in this particular area, it's not where we've cut down. We have protected the area of 'actions for children and young people' in the budget; even if we had to have a tight budget, we have made it clear. That we can need more resources and take a whole discussion with the local economy is interesting enough, but I don't think I should do it – at least in this case. What I can do in addition to what I said in my answer, is that the government has dealt with and authorised us to have a Norwegian public distribution, NOW, about child protection and the foster home issue. We haven't created this selection yet, but it will happen in the near future, and then of course they will go through all these problematic questions that the representative is dealing with. I hope that we will also have even better measures to take in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e902	I have the following questions for the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade: ‘In an article in the Evening Post on 19 January 1999, the situation of employment in the yard industry and the new orders for 1999 and 2000 are mentioned. Already in the second quarter of this year, 7000 jobs can be lost. This will affect the whole industry along the coast of Norway and will have dramatic effects on other jobs as well. What would the Council of State do to improve this situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e911	The situation in the yard industry has worsened recently, and the outlook for the rest of the year indicates that the situation may be difficult. In this answer I would like to mention the shipbuilding industry, while in answer to today's question 9 I will take to myself the oil-related industry. The order intake in 1998 was DKK 4 billion, while the average for the previous four years was between DKK 11 and 12 billion, with a peak of around DKK 20 billion in 1997. At the turn of the year, the yards had orders for nearly 19 billion kroner, while some of the yards will have their last deliveries already in the first six months. Around half of the yards will have their last delivery during the year. However, problems will often occur earlier, because parts of the work-stick will run out of work before a ship is delivered. Already now, some shipyards have licensed all or part of the workstock. The shipbuilding industry is a very important industry in many communities and an important part of our maritime industry, and we are now considering the situation very carefully. We also assess whether there is a need for rapid action to counteract the negative trends that are taking place.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e920	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, which I did not think was very good, for the development the Minister of Industry described here, he has known for a long time. There is therefore no reason why the Minister of Economic Affairs should go long before he returns to Stortinget with a proposal to raise the yard support from 7 to 9 pst. I mean, already in the month that comes, this has to come to Stortinget. The situation is actually such that it is approx. 35 yards that have work today, but without new assignments soon there will be only five yards that have something in the order books. In one year, the last new building will be delivered from the Norwegian side. This is a serious and dramatic situation. Without a level playing field with other countries, we lose jobs in Norway, and businesses are at risk. We also know that the corner stone farms are located in the districts, and when we also know what Minister of Industry Sponheim promises in the election campaign when it's crazy to strengthen the businesses in the districts, it has to act until now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e927	I think it's important to stress in the first part of this answer that the difficulties and problems we're now seeing, probably have direct relationship with more relationships than these two percent in inequality in terms of yard support. At least the industry itself clearly says that it is a very changed market, and that is probably the main reason. However, we may agree that the fact that we have lower yard support in Norway than in competitors certainly does not improve the situation. We were very concerned about this already in the autumn of 1997, when both the previous government and this government chose to have a lower rate of yard support for the mitigation effect of the economy. As a result, almost a year’s normal order entry was delayed until the end of 1997, and this created a disturbance in the order availability that we are now seeing propagating, combined with market unrest. The government takes this very seriously. For most shipyards, there is no emergency situation, but it is necessary to go through this and get back to the Storting with measures in the first half of the year – and we will do it as soon as we can.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e937	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘Recently, a number of crew reductions have been made in domestic ferry services. From crew it is claimed that this leads to reduced safety for passengers and crew. On the other hand, it was claimed from the responsible control authority that safety is not compromised by such manning reduction, as new safety equipment is simultaneously installed. Does the Council of State consider security to be adequately ensured, or is the concerns of seafarers justified?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e946	The crewing of Norwegian ferries and passenger ships is governed by the Norwegian Ship Manning Regulation of 17 March 1987 and by the Norwegian Shipbuilding Regulation of 30 June 1987 on the watchkeeping of the deck department and the machinery department of Norwegian ships. In the specific assessment of each ship, the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs shall determine the safety crew necessary to ensure the safety of the ship and its occupants. It is an absolute requirement that the safety crew must be sufficient to cover the relevant safety duties on board. In order for the Maritime Directorate to be sure that the staff determined is large enough, manning and evacuation analysis is being carried out today to demonstrate that there is staffing for the operations required by the regulations. In case of doubt, exercise is carried out to verify the analysis. The most critical parameter for assessing passenger safety on domestic ferries has been the evacuation phase. It is recently developed life-saving equipment that is low in demand and reduces crew needs in case of evacuation. It is shown, among others: to ferries which have installed "dry-skoated evacuation". This action makes it possible to steer the entire evacuation from the bridge. Thus, in an evacuation situation, it is not necessary to decommission one of the crews to lower and hold the lifeboats until the ship's side in order to allow passengers to board. If the ferry has been fitted with new life-saving appliances, the company may submit an application for the establishment of a new crew task. The Maritime Directorate will then undertake a reassessment which may result in a reduction in safety manning. The assumption is that the safety of passengers and the ship is maintained as required by the Staff Regulations. On this basis, I believe that the question of the safe manning of Norwegian ferries and passenger ships has been adequately addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e961	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In a report in the Norwegian Association of Seafarers, both the officer and the crew say that the low crew is on the loose, and that they are not afraid to think about what happens if an emergency occurs. It is also claimed that the manning is too low even for normal operation. In the same issue, it is also admitted by senior management in the Maritime Directorate that, in an evacuation situation, there are no people for example. carrying disabled persons or any other means of assistance. That's what you're betting on for passengers to help with. I believe that there are economic savings that seem to be the background to this downfall. My questions will then be: to what extent has the risk of loss of life been assessed against financial savings in this downsizing process, and can it be expected that further downsizing will occur in the coming time?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e968	When discussing these issues, it is important to distinguish between what is required for shipping, ticketing and other things on board a ferry, and what is a safety crew, which the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs is responsible for ensuring that every ship is adequately equipped. It's not economic conditions that underlie the mission required by the Maritime Directorate, as I pointed out in my answer, it's nothing but purely safety considerations. But then it's like technology is going forward in this area as well, and it's been possible to reconsider these manning tasks by means of new technology, as I pointed out. But it's important to stress that this doesn't concern the shipping operations. It is the shipping company and the agreement between the company and workers that determines manning in areas which are not subject to safety concerns.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e976	I will ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘There is a significant decrease in the order availability of workshops and service companies in the oil-related industry, both in terms of new contracts and maintenance contracts. Some of the reasons are likely to be related to the release of planned expansions on Norwegian base and low oil prices, but a significant reason seems to be poorer framework conditions for Norwegian companies than in our competing countries. Will the Council of State propose measures to improve the framework conditions for industry?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e985	The last year’s experience shows with all clarity that the oil industry is an ever-changing industry. Last year, one of the main challenges was a very high level of activity with pressures on both labour and other inputs. The Norwegian economy was further characterised by overheating, and tightening measures were required. Today, the picture looks quite different. Several projects are either exposed or ice-cream projects due to low oil prices. This situation illustrates not least the difficulty of ensuring a level playing field for oil-related industry and stable employment in an industry where external framework conditions change so rapidly. Petroleum activities on Norwegian soil are therefore facing a number of challenges both in the short and longer term. The government is very concerned that we are meeting these challenges, and the Minister for Oil and Energy has therefore started last year to harvest more research projects that address key issues for industry. One of the projects is an analysis of the competitiveness of Norwegian oil industry. Recent cost developments, structural changes in industry, the significant uncertainty in the development of oil prices, the possibility of persistently low prices and changes in the ability of oil companies to invest in other petroleum provinces lead to an analysis of the competitive situation of our continental shelf. The objective of the project is to provide a basis for assessing any measures that may be taken to ensure that, over time, we continue to be able to develop the petroleum resources on the continental shelf effectively, while ensuring that a high proportion of the oil rate falls to the community. That we continue to attract investments from the best players in the industry is important to achieve this. The project addresses key issues that will be addressed internally in the Ministry of Oil and Energy, on the one hand in cooperation with industry and with the help of Norwegian and foreign consultants/research communities on the other. At the same time as the competitiveness project is under way, the Government of the revised national budget for 1999 will report on the significant uncertainty in the development of the oil price and discuss the consequences of persistently low oil prices. In this context, it would be natural to discuss the importance of the market situation for the competitiveness of the oil industry. As announced by the Prime Minister in the finance debate last November, in the revised national budget we will also explain our cooperation with other oil producers both inside and outside OPEC and discuss how this can be developed and improved. The revised budget will also assess whether it is appropriate at this stage to make concrete adjustments in our policies and framework conditions towards industry.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1004	I thank you for your answer. It is with growing concern that I see that the new orders in the yard industry are going down sharply and are below the workshop's capacity, and that commissioning seems to have to come. When it fails on the shipyard side, it also easily infects the offshore offshore industry. Examples from my home area, Kristiansund area, show that there is a tendency to do so. I have also been informed that the oil companies are reviewing their maintenance contracts and postponing their maintenance cycles. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade if he can already signal some concrete measures – in addition to those he suggested in his main response – that must be in the very near future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1013	The situation that the representative here refers to, which I have no reason to disagree with, and which in itself also reflects another question that has been raised today about the second part of the yard industry, shows how tough and difficult it is to have Norwegian jobs spread around in the whole country that depends on the inexorable fluctuations that the large foreign markets give. The low oil price that overturns the Norwegian economy is a clear example of this. It is clear that there are consequences in a situation where oil companies reconsider their plans and assess the consequences for their way of operating, their cost picture, etc. if we were to go into a permanent situation with low oil prices. Such a situation actually also means that as a nation, we can lose an important rent, simply by removing an important added value contained in these resources. In this context, this project has been launched, i.e. to provide a decision-making basis for the Government to see if action needs to be taken. I cannot announce any further measures than this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1023	«For a long time there has been uncertainty about the ownership of Scancem Chemicals AS. Aker RGI has announced that they want to sell out of the company where the Norwegian cement producer Norcem AS is one of the subsidiaries. Norcem AS has cement production in Brevik and Kjøpsvik. What will the Council of State do to clarify future ownership and ensure that cement production continues to be maintained in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1030	I see the question as relating to the shareholding that Aker RGI ASA has in the Swedish company Scancem AB, and that they have notified that they want to sell. The Swedish Scancem Group has Norwegian subsidiaries, such as: Norcem AS and Scancem Chemicals A/S. Per. Today I do not have information about who will enter the owner's page of the Scancem group. However, I have taken the initiative of a meeting with Aker RGI's Chairman of the Board of Directors and the majority shareholder, as well as the group head, to obtain an information and, if possible, to seek to clarify the future ownership of Scancem AB. In this context, I would also like to clarify the importance of bringing in new owners who will maintain cement production in Norway. This is particularly important in view of all the jobs related to just this production. I have no information on how the sale of the Scancem shares will happen. Neither our current acquisition law nor our predecessor, the former industrial concession law, has been designed to allow the Norwegian authorities to intervene in the acquisition of foreign companies even though this company has a Norwegian subsidiary. Therefore, Aker RGI’s sale of its shareholding in the Scancem AB group – as mentioned above it is a Swedish company – will not be subject to treatment under the Norwegian Acquisitions Act. However, if individual sales of Norwegian subsidiaries are considered in the Scancem group, such acquisitions would be regulated by the Norwegian Acquisitions Act. In any case, I would like to take advantage of the potential impact that exists, in order to seek to ensure that the transfer of shares has a minimum negative impact on Scancem’s Norwegian cement producers. I would also like to inform you that with regard to the cement production of Norcem AS in Brevik and Køpsvik, this is regulated by a mining concession. The terms of this concession relate to the operation itself and do not regulate future ownership changes in Norcem AS. This mining concession will continue to exist irrespective of whether the Scancem group acquires new owners and the new owners are obliged to comply with the terms of the concession.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1041	I get to thank the Council of State for the answer – I think it was a good answer. It shows that he's already engaged in the relationship, and I'm satisfied with that. There are, after all, many jobs involved, both in Brevik and in Køpsvik, and the uncertainty of employees is great in view of future owners and the conditions surrounding this. We have mixed experiences with concessional conditions and what they are worth, and the Minister of Industry must be active to secure jobs. There is also another side to this, as the Council of State was so far in its answer, and it is that this company owns a large natural resource, namely limestone – for billions of dollars – which must also be part of the Council of State's handling of the matter. We're still at an early stage, but I understood the Council of State there that he would do everything in his power to ensure that there is still cement production in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1048	I can assure the representative that the Government will do what is in its power to secure cement production in Norway, both in Brevik and in Kjöpsvik. We'll make sure to use the mechanisms that are, and we'll have the necessary dialogue with the old owners of RGI about how this purchase is going to take place. But we also want to see as soon as a new buyer is established, see how we from the Norwegian authorities can help ensure that a new owner of the Swedish Scancem group takes care of the jobs we have in Norway. I look forward to good cooperation with both Stortinget and the representative on such work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1057	I will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following questions: ‘The Head of State Health of Arkhangelsk has asked the County of Troms to assist in the provision of vital medicines and disposable equipment for anaesthesia and surgical treatment. The county rapporteur in Troms has handed over a report to the U.D., and will focus on any assistance on medicines for diabetes, on psychiatry and disposable surgical devices. An amount of 5 million is suggested. krones. Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs, within the U.D.'s budget, seek funding for emergency medical aid to Arkhangelsk, possibly ask the Council to grant it?'
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1066	This question we have actually had a general examination of earlier today, but it is no less important for that reason. The humanitarian situation in North-West Russia remains difficult. I am therefore pleased with the strong commitment that has been expressed, especially in the Nordic municipalities, in terms of relief measures. During the redistribution proposition before Christmas last year, 10 million were granted. kr for winter use, including for the work of major relief organisations in the Arkhangelsk area. There is now an urgent need for further action in our northern neighbourhoods to address the distress of vulnerable groups, as well as the lack of vital medicines and equipment, to which the representative of Østberg refers. In recent years, the various support programmes for Eastern Europe have had considerable unused funds. Thus it was transferred approx. 419 million. kr from 1996 to 1997 and approx. 307 million. kr from 1997 to 1998. This was one of the reasons why the Government found that it wanted to reduce the proposal for the allocation of these programmes for 1999 and instead proposed a commitment mandate of 200 million. kr, which can only be paid in 2000. We will actively use these warrants. However, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has, through an active driving role, made larger payments last year than has been the case in previous years. So it looks like, as the preliminary review now shows, that only 95 million. kr will be transferred from 1998 to 1999. And it also appears that this whole amount is tied up in concrete projects and cannot be used for new actions. Of them, 55.5 million were granted. The cooperation programme with Central and Eastern Europe (CEEC) in 1999 has been difficult to release additional emergency aid, as the funds are tied up in commitments entered into, among others. to the Barents programme and the OSCE actions. However, we will now review the Collaborative Programme portfolio in order to possibly release at least some funds. I can assure you that we will do what is possible to support the solidarity work that the Trom County Municipality is so committed to, for the benefit of heavily needed medical emergency measures in the Arkhangelsk region. In view of the new situation that has arisen as consumption last year was greater than expected, the Government will return to Stortinget with the matter. This is in line with what was expressed by several teams in the budget debate last year. I can assure you that the Government places emphasis on its responsibility to support the development of Eastern and Central Europe, and in particular North-West Russia, and will maintain a high level of activity.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1081	I thank you for the answer and the positive goodwill. The report I referred to is based on visits by representatives of the County Health Manager of Troms to representatives of the Regional Hospital in Tromsø, who were in Arkhangelsk in the time 18. November 23rd. I was there at the same time, at the opening of the Children's Centre for Development. There are weak groups who suffer the most: mental retardation, psychiatric patients, children and the elderly. It's about medical emergency help to save lives. I am pleased that the Prime Minister in his New Year's speech underlined the importance of helping North-West Russia. May the Minister for Foreign Affairs review the 95 million. kr, which was unused in 1998, imagine to set the 5 million. NOK at the disposal, so that the emergency aid, which is about saving lives, is now given?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1092	As I said in my first answer, we're going to review the portfolio and see what we have from available resources and what we can prioritise. As far as I know, we have just received applications for 317 million. kr, and when you have a budget of 55,5 million. It is clear to most that this must be given priority. But as I also said in my first answer, in my view, and also in the eyes of the Government, a new situation arose that could not be foreseen, as last year's consumption was so much greater – and better, I would say – than what you have had in previous years. That is why I said earlier today that the government will come back to Stortinget with this matter. But I can't promise here and now that this project will get $5 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1109	This question has been postponed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1115	This question, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Food and Trade on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1118	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries, whom I understand will be answered by the Minister for Industry: ‘The newly built line boat “Geir” has been developed with an innovative drawbar well in the center of the boat instead of an open drawbar hatch in the side, which has caused the loss of fishing boats. The new system works perfectly even in storms. The cost of development has been approx. Nine million. krones. The shipping company has previously applied for a contract grant and received a refusal. Since this will improve safety and prevent the loss of line and net fishing, can the Council of State consider reconsidering the refusal to grant contracting subsidies?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1127	I will be given the following answers on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries: At the outset, it is important for the Minister of Fisheries to stress that the Ministry of Fisheries is not involved in the handling of individual cases relating to SND. The project referred to here received support from the SND through instruments from the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Subsidies were granted for product and process development, development grants and risk loans, which enabled the new construction of the ‘Geir’ liner vessel to be realised. The background for this is that the SND considered the project as a development project, including: the safety aspect was considered and therefore found the possibility to co-finance the project with the above mentioned instruments. The Ministry of Fisheries draws up annual overall fisheries policy guidelines for the use of instruments in the fisheries and aquaculture sector. In this respect, it is clear, among other things, that: the SND shall not grant grants for the conversion or new construction of ships operating or planning to operate on-board production or for investments for greater on-board production. This is the background for the non-contracting grant of the line vessel ‘Geir’.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1134	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and to this extent I was aware of the reason why no contracting subsidy was granted. It's a paradox in the case of contracting subsidies, i.e. yard subsidies, that the fishing fleet has to be roughly on the knees of the SND with the hat in its hand to get the same yard subsidy that you would have received if you had built a kerosene to 100 million. kr. Here, a system has been developed that will prevent the loss in the future, and then it would be reasonable if the same contracting subsidy, i.e. yard support, were paid for the development of this ship. It would have been approx. Six million. NOK 9 million of the cost, after all. kr. Is it not time for case handlers to be instructed to use reason in dealing with such cases?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1141	That's what the State Council Sponheim will have to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1144	If there is something I have the greatest confidence in, it is that all of our competent case handlers in central government and other administration use reason. But they also use the framework they get from the departments in terms of guidelines they're going to stick to, and that's obviously, based on the answer, what they've done here. I also think it is important to stress what was said in the answer that the exciting development project in this fishing boat has been awarded grants for both product and process development, development grants and risk loans through the Ministry of Industry and Trade's appropriations for the SND. So here, there's been a contribution from the SND system to get to the development part of this. But it's outside the guidelines SND has to deal with, being able to provide ordinary contracting grants.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1154	I have reported this question to the Prime Minister, but I understand he has left the problem in his own statements to the Minister of Finance: ‘In the daily newspaper of 14 January 1999, the Prime Minister states that interest reduction is authorised by Norway’s Bank to assess and that the Governor of the Central Bank has said that he will focus on more assessments than the krone price. Does this mean that the 1994 Ap-government currency regulation has now been repealed and that monetary policy is now based on cost levels and price increases?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1163	The monetary policy guidelines are firm. The currency code of 6 May 1994 has not been amended. The currency regulation states that: «The continuous exercise of monetary policy by the Bank of Norway shall be aligned with the stability of the value of the krona measured against European currencies, on the basis of the price path since the start of the krona flow on 10 December 1992.» The Bank of Norway shall exercise monetary policy on this basis. The currency regulation does not provide for a central rate of fluctuation margins, with the corresponding obligation on the Bank of Norway to intervene in the foreign exchange market, as we had under the fixed rate regime in force until 10 December 1992. The regulation therefore provides for flexibility in the exercise of monetary policy. The currency regulation obliges the Bank of Norway to keep its exchange rate stable against European currencies. Moreover, the level of interest rates needs to be adjusted to avoid persistent and extensive interventions. At the same time, the strength of the instruments in terms of interest rate changes and the purchase and sale of the currency that the bank can use to keep its price stable is limited. As a result, if the price pressure on the krone should be particularly strong in one direction or another, the bank shall allow the exchange rate to change in the short term, but shall arrange for the use of the means of return to the initial rental. The provision thus takes into account that the exchange rate may differ from the initial rental, as the situation has recently been. It is the Bank of Norway that has operational responsibility for the implementation of monetary policy. Thus, within the framework of the monetary regulation, the Bank of Norway is responsible for integrating the use of instruments into monetary policy. The central bank manager has pointed out that the currency regulation provides flexibility. He has further expressed his opinion on how Norway’s Bank will organise the use of the instrument with a view to gradually bringing the price back to the initial rental. I have no comments on the Governor's statements, and I cannot see in any way that his statements would entail a change in the monetary policy guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1183	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was in a way okay enough. I interpret the Minister of Finance as agreeing with the Governor of the Central Bank, who, in addition to having perceived the requirement to bring the price back to the initial rental, also wants to focus on the level of costs and price increases, and thus de facto has changed the understanding of monetary policy in relation to the understanding that the former Governor had and expressed several times. I have two additional questions for the Minister of Finance: Does he not think that there is no one in the different markets who now perceives and really knows what Norwegian monetary policy is – i.e. what it is de facto, and not what it says – that a new regulation that clarifies and clarifies to the market what Norwegian monetary policy is? And the second question is, how long does the new rate that is established have to last before accepting that it is de facto a stable new dollar rate?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1192	I have come to understand that the Governor has stressed that monetary policy is firm. He has also pointed out that the monetary policy guidelines provide flexibility, as I said in my first answer, and room for discretion, and that it is the task of the Bank of Norway to exercise that discretion. The central bank manager has also said that it is possible to change the interest rate before the krona has strengthened again, back to the initial rental it had before the interest rate increases started. Furthermore, he has stated that if we are to have a stable currency in relation to the euro, we must have over time a price and cost increase that is in line with the increase elsewhere in Europe. Therefore, in its discretionary exercise, the Bank of Norway will emphasise that interest rates are set in such a way as to contribute to a low price increase. I therefore do not see the need for a new regulation. The 1994 regulation allows for the necessary flexibility, and I agree with the assessment and opinions given by the Governor on how this regulation is to be understood in terms of flexibility.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1204	I will ask the Minister for Finance the following questions: ‘The similarity value of two seemingly identical dwellings can vary greatly. This creates an injustice through the calculation of the advantage of living in own dwellings. The EQS guidelines have been that the EQS shall be between 20 and 30 pst. the expected selling price of the dwelling. The Equation Office is often unwilling to set the Equation Tariff down on residential and leisure homes. Will the Council give an instruction to the Equation Offices to keep the Equation Tariff within the norms in place?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1213	The current charging system provides standards for setting the Equation Tariff for new buildings. The Tax Directorate has for a number of years given instructions that it can normally be appropriate to set the equation value for new residential properties to 20-30 pst. the cost of buildings and land. In practice, this standard of valuation has been followed up. The background to the guidelines of the Directorate is that the average level of tariffs is low, and that equal opportunities mean the same low level of all new dwellings. However, it is clear that the level of tariffs is uneven. The rates for older barley are more often lower than 20-30 pst. of market value. On the other hand, market developments may have been such that tariffs are above 30 pst. of current market value. Deviation from the level of 20-30 pst, both downwards and upwards. the market value must be considered to be within the normal range of variation of the current tariff system. Adjustments to tariffs already established are mainly made through annual percentage supplements. As rates for older buildings are set on a discretionary basis at different times, and have often remained nominally unchanged in a period of sharp price rise, the level of tariffs has become very uneven. The annual percentage increases have often contributed to the strengthening of bias. In order to address the differences, the Tax Directorate has provided guidance that the Equation value of properties that are significantly above the tariff level of comparable properties otherwise in the municipality can be adjusted. Given the lack of precision of the current tariff system, individual differences in the tariff level in practice cannot be balanced without full charging. I am in no way satisfied with the varying level of the applicable tariff system. A complete revision of the tariff system has long been required. Therefore, in June 1996 a large-scale notification on housing taxing and housing tax principles was promoted, cf. St. Report. No 45 for 1995-96. The notification was addressed by the Stortinget in April 1997 on the basis of Innst. S. No 143 for 1996-97 by the Financial Committee. The Ministry of Finance is now working on a follow-up to the comments of the majority of the Committee in this setting, for example. with regard to assessing the economic, distributional and administrative consequences of a conversion outlined in the suspension. While there has been no necessary data to carry out satisfactory analyses at these points, last year a data collection process was completed in cooperation with the Statistical Centre. The Ministry has now obtained a good basis for making the calculations and analyses requested by the majority of committees. These calculations and analyses will be submitted to the Stortinget together with other estimates of housing tax conversions. For the time being, it is not possible to suggest any concrete time for the presentation, but I stress that the work is prioritised. Unfortunately, the situation is such that we have to broadly accept the results of today's system, pending a new and greatly improved system. On this basis, there is no basis for giving detailed instructions to the equality authorities to modify the applicable tariffs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1233	I thank the Council of State for the answer. First of all, I would like to say that the dwelling should not be a tax item. In my view, both taxes on benefits and property taxes on private dwellings should be removed. But once it's as bad as it is, these forms of taxation exist, it's important that there's not much distortion in it. It is true that there have been significant distortions in the value of the equation of dwellings, as – as the Council of State was in it – there has been an increase in the rate of 10 pst. for a year with the exception of a few years. It's actually so that the equation value of dwellings varies by from 3 to 110 pst. of what we can call the market value. It creates a totally wrong tax base for calculating the benefit tax. Of course, the Council of State is familiar with it, and was concerned about it, and I am pleased about that. But I would like to ask: is it really so that we have a government in Norway that wants to speculate on such a necessity as people's housing after all is, and does it see it as a sort of safe source of tax revenue for the public? Could the Council of State say a little bit about that?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1240	To try to answer first the question that came to the end: it's not like the government wants to use people's homes as a kind of ‘speculation object’ to use that expression, to bring in as much tax as possible. I fully agree that today's system is unacceptable as long as you have the numbers that Torbjørn Andersen showed on variations in equation value relative to market value, which is at least not far from the truth. That is what we did when we dealt with the housing tax notice, as I mentioned in my first post. But I don't think this is going to be solved by now flicking on the system we have and have had for very many years. Rather, you have to speed up the process and get a new tax system that is supposed to be much more fairer than the system we have had so far.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1250	I allow myself to address the following questions to the Minister of Finance: ‘Both drug users and heavy alcohol users can today be treated for their abuse. Some of those currently admitted to such treatment institutions have been ordered to do so by their respective employers, who have been told that they can either be treated or lose the job. The employer then invests a significant amount of money to enable qualified employees to get out of their abuse. Today, such expenditure is not deductible for the employer. Will the Council of State take the initiative to change this?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1259	I assume that the question of the employer's deduction of expenditure incurred in connection with employees being admitted to treatment for drug or alcohol abuse concerns expenditure on wages and salaries, etc. to the employee and to cover the processing costs of accommodation in the institution. Wages and salaries, including employers' contributions and other social costs, are deductible, cf. the tax law § 44, first paragraph, point (a). This also applies if the employee who has been admitted to a treatment institution is not sick but has been granted leave with wages and salaries by the employer. The employee will be taxed on wages and salaries in the usual way. If the employee is taxed for the benefit of covering the costs of treatment, the employer will also be deducted from the cost as a compensation of employees. With regard to the employer's coverage of non-remunerated treatment costs, this can hardly be considered as an operating cost for the enterprise in isolation. It is therefore difficult to consider an alternative where the employee should not be taxed for the benefit of the coverage of the treatment costs, but the employer should nevertheless be granted a deduction for the coverage of such costs. I cannot see that there is a lack of the tax system in this area, and therefore see no need to take any initiative to introduce a specific deduction rule for such expenditure. In principle, there is a pay supplement when the employer covers private expenditure on housing, etc. for an employee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1275	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs the following questions: «A study carried out by the Municipal Report confirms the fears of the Left Party of Socialism to tighten local economy primarily beyond measures for children and young people. This means cutting key prevention measures, such as the integration of children and young people with a foreign background, and measures to capture young people who are ‘falling out of the system’. Does the Council share this concern, and what will it do to ensure that important prevention measures do not become a balancing position in the municipal sector?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1284	I share the concerns of the representative Karin Andersen about the problems of some children and young people, and especially children and young people with migrant backgrounds, meet in Norwegian society today. At the same time, I have confidence that local politicians are pursuing a responsible municipal policy and that they want to take care of all the inhabitants well. My impression is that the municipalities are well managed both politically and administratively. State detail management in the form of designation and regulation needs to be reduced in order for municipalities and county councils to take responsibility for finding local solutions that provide the best possible well-being for the inhabitants. For the treatment of St.meld. No 23 for 1992-93, On the relationship between the State and the municipalities, the Stortinget stated that the principle of framework management of the local government was important in order to ensure a well-functioning local government. In my presentation to the Biggest of Local Democracy on 19 March last, I pointed out that there is a need for a living local government and for increased interest and involvement in local politics. The government believes that greater real power for elected bodies, not least in municipalities and county municipalities, is a prerequisite for people to find it meaningful to engage in political work and take responsibility for social development. Many municipalities are concerned about how to retrieve views and engage citizens in the design of local decisions. For example, several municipalities have: the systematic involvement of children and young people in setting up child and youth councils and municipal meetings for children and young people. This shows that municipalities want children and young people to thrive and become involved in the local environment. I assume this also applies to children and young people with a foreign background. The State has implemented several measures to facilitate better integration of children and young people with a migrant background. I hope the municipalities do the same, but local authorities have to be responsible for the consequences of their choices and economic priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1295	I thank you for the answer, but I'm a little surprised at that, because this was not a matter of ringing versus framework management, but of a debate that intervenes in any of the serious problems of crime, violence and social exclusion. It is true that the municipal sector has to take responsibility for its priorities, but the Storting must also do so. What the Government has presented and the Storting has decided on the release of the funds for the care of the elderly has had to go beyond child and youth measures. When we then know that schools and kindergartens are the most important common arenas — at least everyone goes to school, and kindergarten is also a common arena — to learn how to work together, to be integrated, and to become socialised into the society in which you live, it is a little ambiguity that the government does not see that the arrangement that the budgets have been given helps to weaken school and kindergarten. Then is my specific question: Will there be another device on the forthcoming plans, and will there be money spent to the municipalities to follow up the plan outlined by the Prime Minister in the spontaneous question hour before today?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1302	The question asked by the representative Karin Andersen is actually also going to the local maritime administration, and I have seen it as one of my main tasks to try to get the most local maritime administration and facilitate it. Therefore, this is also about how much detail management we should have from pouring and government towards municipalities. As far as Andersen's representative mentions the importance of kindergarten and school, I agree with that. I would like to remind you that, as early as last June, Regeringen presented an action plan against racism and discrimination, including: The measures that the Ministry of Church, Education and Research is now following up on the schoolwork are one of the areas of activity. A number of other things that go on the subject of the Minister of Justice were also detailed in that action plan, so on the part of the State we have arranged for this. With regard to the 2000 budget, I assume that everyone understands that I can't shoot it now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1311	The President has a great deal of understanding of that. Questions 18-25, from the representatives of Ane Sofie Tömrös, Jørn L. Stang, Karita Bekkemelme Orheim, Ågot Valle, Jan Johnsen, Øystein Djupedal, Vidar Kleppe and Anne Helen Rui to the Minister of Justice, will be answered by the Minister of Church, Education and Research on behalf of the Minister of Justice, who has a medical history.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1319	I would like to ask a question to the functioning Minister of Justice: ‘Is it correct, as it has been achieved in the media, that the Council of State considers that it is not following the unanimous decision of the Stortingen to build a new, modern prison in Eastfold?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1326	I understand why the representative asked the question on the basis of some comments in the media. At the same time, it is okay for me to give a short and precise answer: No – it does not lead to correctness. I can take this opportunity to give a brief overview of what is now happening in Eastfold prison. A natural first step in such a planning process is to look at space needs. The Storting based its decision on the volume forecast we presented in the criminal health report. After that, we have seen that the presence of judicial convictions has stopped something, and that we have had free prison capacity. Proper planning means that we have to go into that situation and update our volume forecast. Already now we can say that many things indicate that this is a temporary situation, and that the volume of justice will rise again. Eastfold prison is not just designed to meet the needs of more prisons. We also need to assess whether the establishment should cover the closures of old and inappropriate holdings in the area. It is also part of this initial planning phase. We also need to analyse the level of safety that we will need in the Eastfold Institute, whether or not the institution should have departments with different levels of safety. Once these conditions have been reasonably clarified, we will go out in relation to the Østfold municipalities and invite them to a process of localisation alternatives. I hope that this has reassured the representative, Mr Tömerås, and I can assure you that we are working to follow up on all the improvements that result from the Storting's handling of the Criminal Service Notice.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1339	Yes, I was reassured. It was good to hear that this is a matter that was obviously created in the media, and that has no root in reality. That's good to hear. I am surprised that that reassurance has not come at an earlier stage in the media, but it was good that it came from this pulpit. It is clear that volume forecasts of how many places we need must be updated continuously in the department at all times. As I see it, it's not realistic to think that we're going to get so big fluctuations in these forecasts that they're at all relevant to whether or not we're going to build a new facility. As the Council of State also mentioned, this new, modern institution must involve much more than just an increase in the number of places. It's not least that we're going to be able to run a modern criminal service in line with the large number of people, and almost a unanimous big deal, in the context of the criminal welfare report. Finally, I would like to stress that I hope that the work that is now under way in the department will go quickly, for this institution should have been there already.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1348	I'm glad that the representative Tömrös was happy, and I agree that it would probably be a pity that one had got the information out at an earlier time. But at the same time, there is certainly nothing to hide that one has had quite a lot of pressing tasks in the ministry lately. So it was okay that the question came now, and that the initialization could come now. I can also confirm that the work goes with full strength. There should be no unnecessary delay. Otherwise, I'm actually a little sad to say that I'm probably in agreement with the representative that there doesn't seem to be any reason to believe that the predictions, which for a while seemed to go down, don't come back to the second level. I think both the representative Tömrås and I would be happy if the opposite was the case, but unfortunately it does not look like this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1358	I would like to ask the following questions to the Council of State Lilletun: ‘The sharp increase in asylum seekers to the country has led to an explosion in the number of foreign cultures exposed with false identity. In the first 10 months of 1998, Kripos discovered 1,068 asylum seekers who have given two or more different names. Several asylum seekers are registered with several identities in other countries, or have used different names for previous visits to Norway. What are the consequences for foreigners seeking asylum after the police discover that an asylum seeker has several different identities?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1367	On the basis of the question put by the representative, Mr Stang, it can be assumed that last year Kripos revealed that almost 1 100 asylum seekers had provided false identity. That's not right. In 1998, Kripos met with requests for fingerprints from the other Nordic countries and Germany 308 so-called hits. This means that, in each case, the foreigner was registered in one or more of the country’s fingerprint registers. The person may be registered under the same identity as provided to the Norwegian authorities, or another identity. So you can't read from the statistics how many people had operated with multiple identities. When faced with a case where an asylum seeker has been identified as having a false identity, an individual assessment of the possible importance of the application must always be made. It is essential whether he or she must be presumed to be in need of protection even after the correct identity has been revealed. If so, it would be irrelevant whether false identity information has previously been provided. For most of those who have provided false identity, a review of the case would lead to the rejection of the asylum application. They are required to return to their country of origin as other asylum seekers who are refused the application. False identity information may constitute a serious breach of the Foreign Affairs Act, which may result in the applicant being expelled in addition to the rejection of the application for asylum. The expulsion involves a ban on re-entry into the State. However, if there is no reason to believe that the foreigner will try to come to Norway at a later date, expulsion will not normally be carried out. Traveling expulsion proceedings will in some cases lead to an unnecessary extension of residence in Norway for the foreigner. The declaration of false identity in the application for asylum could also involve criminal liability for infringements of the Foreign Affairs Act. Such offences are not normally prosecuted, as criminal prosecution would involve longer residence in the state at the expense of the public. The work on clarifying the correct identity of asylum seekers is very important. Only those who really need protection are to be granted asylum in Norway. It is therefore of great importance that the necessary tools are provided for those who are to work to reveal false identities. In Ot.prp. No 17 for 1998-99, which was transmitted to the Stortinget on 20 November last year, the Government has proposed a number of changes to the Foreign Affairs Act. Several of the amendments have just been proposed with a view to obtaining provisions that will contribute more effectively to the detection of false identities. In addition, the proposals are designed to ensure that the legal certainty of individual non-residents is also better safeguarded than current provisions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1382	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm not going to go into a number discussion, just notice one thing, that there's a growing tendency for some foreigners to come here with fake papers. So that's how we can agree that at least it's an increase. In a way, I was somewhat reassured by the Council of State's response, but not fully, because it was said that in some cases, one could look through the fingers of the document – if it could be shown that the person was persecuted. The question then arises, among other things: whether the documents intended to reveal whether or not the person has been persecuted are authentic or not, and what is the basis on which an application is to be met. False documents are becoming more common and are very often committed by foreigners, especially by Kosovo Albanians, and it is also confirmed by the actorate in court proceedings in connection with the falsification of documents that this is common among some foreign cultural groups. I have understood the answer from the Council of State so that it is not in accordance with the Government's current asylum policy that asylum seekers are falsified in order to obtain asylum.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1391	The representative Stang and I have agreed that it is serious to give the wrong identity, and that document fake is a serious crime. But at the same time, we've seen in the last few days that people at the top of the system can also blame themselves for this. I'm thinking of an issue in relation to the falsification of documents about a Danish company, which clearly shows that it's not just in the forward-looking cultural environments that this is going on. What we see is that in some cases asylum seekers do not dare to provide the right information because of their experience at home. If there is clear evidence that there is real follow-up, it is the government's view that then there is life and health and giving people security that is essential. That's when you look through your fingers, as the representative Stang puts it. But I actually believe that the representative Stang is agreed that we should not send people back to death and ruin. At least I hope so!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1398	Before we go to question 20, the President will make sure that the Council of State has asked Lilletun to answer questions 31 - 33 after question 25. The President, with the consent of the Storting, will allow this, even if it is somewhat late to change the questioning. But it looks like we're going to be able to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1404	I will be asked the following questions by the Minister of Justice: ‘Will the Council of State propose legislative changes to allow women in a situation of rape to use the means of defence she considers necessary in this threatening situation, such as to scare/true the rapist with the presence of the HIV virus or to engage in physical counter-attacks?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1411	It seems to me that this question has been raised by a recent and non-judicial judgment in Oslo Byrett, which has received a lot of attention in the press. As the questioner will be aware, I have no opportunity to comment on the decision of the Court of Justice in individual cases. I would also warn against drawing general conclusions on the Court's positions on the basis of a single urban court judgment. However, I am concerned that the victims of the rape should meet a legal instrument that supports them. This applies not least to those who are HIV-positive or AIDS-sick. Furthermore, in my view, the attackers should receive a fair and appropriate punishment. I can thus without further delay join the questioner's objective of ensuring the legal certainty of the victims of the rape. In July 1997, the Sex Crime Commission presented its investigation as NOU 1997:23 Sexual offences. The committee proposes a review of the morality provisions of the criminal law and also discusses various issues related to the law on rape. The selection includes, among others: the critical elements to which the courts today attach weight in a mitigating way in criminal proceedings in criminal matters. The investigation of the sexual offence committee is currently being dealt with in the Ministry of Justice. I want to come back with views on criminal law enforcement practices in relation to the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1425	I am pleased that the Council of State in its reply states that a woman should have the right to do what is necessary to defend herself against violence. I also see that there may be difficulties in commenting on the specific verdict of Oslo Byrett. But I want to say that rape is a very serious crime that affects very many women. Rape is a serious assault that degrades women in the worst possible way. In such a situation, women have few defenses. I think there is reason to ask the Council of State whether it is the consideration of the victim or the consideration of the attacker that is the important thing. I can't believe it, but I have to ask the functioning Justice Minister if not the so-called HIV judgment in Oslo is sending a signal from the body in our society that's going to say what's right and wrong. There's a lot of darkness in rape today. Rape affects a lot of people, and we know that unfortunately there are few relationships that are being reported today. Two out of three reviews are posted. Only 15 pst. of all the notifications ending in a conviction. A trial shall be an uproar to the victim, and the disputed judgment I cannot respect to report is an uproar to the victim. The judgment cannot set the standard for the future case-law we are going to have in Norway in these kinds of cases.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1432	In the first place, the Council of State must ask for cause for damage in order to answer question 21, which is also about the legal security of selected persons in relation to HIV and AIDS, and not the question asked by the representative of Bekkelem Orheim. But that's a short answer, and I'll give it now. Election is an assault on another person's physical and mental freedom and integrity and is considered a very serious crime. It is mainly women who are elected. Selection not only harms the individual woman selected, but also spreads fear among other women. I see it as natural and reasonable that the person who is subjected to a unlawful attack, such as the attack. a electoral procedure shall have the right to do whatever is necessary to prevent the attack or to defend itself against it, even if it affects the perpetrator. This is also a fundamental principle in the current law, which has been expressed through the rules of the penal law § 48. No legislative changes are necessary to achieve the purpose of the questioner.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1441	Then we go to question 21, which is answered in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1447	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: ‘It has recently been made clear that the courts have outdated attitudes both to the victim in a rape and to the problem of HIV/AIDS. Pluss and lawyers both respond, and rightly so. [[Organisation for HIV Positives in Norway]] Does the Council of State see the need to amend the legislation to ensure that the legal security of the raped and HIV/AIDS disease is adequately ensured?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1456	Since I was injured to give the answer to this question, too early, I allow myself to repeat it so that the representative Valle gets it properly put forward. I again apologize to the representative, Mr. Bekkemelm Orheim. It seems to me that this question has been raised by a recent and non-judicial judgment in Oslo Byrett, which has received a lot of attention in the press. As the questioner will be aware, I have no opportunity to comment on the decision of the Court of Justice in individual cases. I would also warn against drawing general conclusions on the Court's position on the basis of a single urban court judgment. However, I am concerned that the victims of the rape should meet a legal instrument that supports them. This applies not least to those who are HIV-positive or AIDS-sick. Furthermore, in my view, the attackers should receive a fair and appropriate punishment. I can thus without further delay join the questioner's objective of ensuring the legal certainty of the victims of the rape. In July 1997, the Sex Crime Commission presented its investigation as NOU 1997:23 Sexual offences. The committee proposes a review of the morality provisions of the criminal law and also discusses various issues related to the law on rape. The selection includes, among others: the critical elements to which the Court of Justice today attaches weight in a mitigating way in criminal proceedings in criminal matters. The investigation of the sexual offence committee is currently being dealt with in the Ministry of Justice. I want to come back with views on criminal law enforcement practices in relation to the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1467	I thank you for your answer. I had just planned to ask for the suspension of the sexual offence committee, because I think it is urgent to bring it in so that we can get changes that will ensure the legal certainty of the offenders. We are many who are meeting the setting with great excitement, and we are going to follow up on it. I understand that the Council of State cannot comment on a judgment, and it was actually not this case that made me address this question. I have many years of experience in working with rape issues, and to me it is quite obvious that there are attitudes in the judiciary that are influenced by prejudices both in relation to the raped and in relation to HIV/AIDS disease, and there is a lack of knowledge about the causes and effects of rape. And I've seen that where it's possible to raise the level of knowledge, there's also something about legal certainty. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State if he will contact the national attorney to ensure that the knowledge of rape is increased in the judiciary.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1476	On a general basis, I would like to agree with the questions that both the representative Bekkem between Orheim and the representative Ågot Valle came with – and now I am talking on a general basis – that it has had an insecurity in relation to whether the victim has HIV/AIDS, should be a mitigating circumstance, it is wrong. I would also like to say that it is obvious that sometimes it is possible to ask questions about having had enough knowledge of such situations. But the ministry is working on this issue for the time being, and I think we're going to come back with a proposal that really shows respect for all the victims that this is going to apply, while we have to prevent it from being less important.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1487	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: ‘16. In December 1998, we read in the newspapers that several municipalities are offering to relieve the police of, among other things, taking responsibility for speed checks. This requires legal changes in road traffic law and criminal law. Will the Council of State consider such legislative changes?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1496	The main objective of the police for road safety work is a reduction in the number of road accidents with injuries and fatalities. This is reflected in the Ministry’s strategy plan for police road safety 1998 - 2002. The plan indicates that priority areas of action shall be measures to combat speed distortions, drug driving, aggressive traffic behaviour and the use of personal protective equipment. In addition, the control activities shall focus on accident-prone road sections. After six-year-olds have started school, the police have strengthened their efforts to make the school road safe. This includes, inter alia: undertaken through the ‘Action school start’ 14 days each harvest. In addition, several police districts have expanded the action beyond those weeks throughout the school year. ‘Action school start’ is also an important theme for the Outreach Police. The Chief of State Enforcement Police has assigned four weeks to the operation and has also instructed all patrols to set off one working day per. week to control the school road. Road traffic accidents are very serious for individuals and for society. The prosecutor has also instructed the police to give priority to serious traffic crime. The proposal to let municipalities relieve the police by taking over speed checks affects the core of police traffic safety. The reasons for these proposals include: in the lack of resources and that the police should focus on serious crime. For municipal employees, roadside checks are likely to pose major challenges. Here you will meet situations for which you do not have education, authority, experience or equipment to handle. Speed control means that there is also a high probability of coming into contact with other types of crime. Ordinary service in parallel with traffic services is a common way of organising police work. Lawbreakers are often apprehended under the Criminal Procedures Act by means of roadside checks. However, if the police are exempted from the tasks mentioned above, the police will have to carry out significant roadside control activities. Traffic security work provides the police with a wide-ranging contact area. On the road, the police also meet the law - abiding part of the population. The proximity of the public is very important for the police to be able to handle their tasks. In this way, I see no profit in this proposal or any other proposal to allow others to take over the road safety work. It is also important for me to point out that for legal certainty and equal treatment, the proposal, as I see it, also means a deterioration in the current solution. Many traffic offences are subject to judicial review. Many want to try their case. Equal treatment for the public requires that the control authority not only has good knowledge of road traffic legislation but also knowledge of criminal law and proceedings. In addition, the control authority should have knowledge of investigations and how to deal with matters further. In this way, the public will be able to obtain relevant information and advice. With municipal employees to carry out control activities, we see a significant risk of the legal security of individuals being weakened. Therefore, my response to the representative, Jan Johnsen, is that the police should continue to be responsible for conduct control on the road, including speed control.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1516	I thank you for the answer, which, of course, I was not satisfied with. I'm a little doubtful about rejection when you have an increase in crime in our society. At the latest today, a killing has been committed not far from this city, which has resulted in major demonstrations outside the Storting, precisely because you can't do what's the police's main task: taking the ones to be taken into this community. It must not be the case that the police are under speed control to come into contact with the legal part of the population. It's totally misunderstanding. The job of the police is to step up in the areas of crime, to prevent crime, and to ensure that the society in which we live is best suited to us who are law-abiding. Then the police get to meet us law-abiding elsewhere. That is why I ask again: is it entirely inappropriate that the department should be able to look at this possibility?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1523	I have great respect for Mr. Johnsen's commitment. But in this case, I tried to explain that traffic control and the different aspects of it are part of a larger crime scene. Then also the big sharks will often be taken. When it comes to the example that was mentioned, it wouldn't have been any easier to prevent such a model being called here. I would say that with such a proposal on the one hand, the municipality will be able to strengthen its budget with revenue from fines, but on the other hand, the costs of the control firm will be large, among other things. for the purchase of surveyor equipment. Only it costs NOK 70 000 per person. Paragraph In addition, annual maintenance and quality assurance costs are incurred. One would also need new additions. Laser control usually requires three to five people. We're going to be open to innovations in the public sector, but here's a thorough analysis that shows that gathering is not something to save, and we would go down on the professional quality.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1533	This question, from the representative of Øystein Djupedal to the Minister of Justice, is raised by the representative of Karin Andersen. At the same time, the President will remind everyone that speaking time must be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1538	I will be asked the following questions: ‘According to a recent statistics from the Oslo Police Chamber, there is a sharp increase in the number of offenders under 20 years of age and with a foreign background. The number of serious violent crimes also increased in 1998 and the number of repeat offenders is high. What will the Council of State do to address and address this development, as well as to initiate measures following young people after their first crimes?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1547	I'm going to try to meet the President's point of reference in terms of speaking time. Much has already been done to meet the developments pointed out by the representative of Andersen. First of all, the Ministry has implemented measures for increased staffing with particular emphasis on visible police present in places and at times where criminal acts take place in particular. Oslo Police District will receive a special reinforcement with a significant increase in the number of officials in 1999. In addition, we are working for the UP patrols to participate in the Oslo Order Service on weekends. Last year's students at the Police College are going to take part in an enhanced order service in Oslo. In the case of punishment by perpetrators under 20 years of age, the majority of such offences are carried out by a small minority of repeaters. Oslo Police District is implementing its own reconnaissance project involving the intelligence section and all stations. The aim of this work is to upset the rest of the environment, weaken and, where appropriate, remove the conductor strata and prevent re-recruitment. The Ministry has also contributed considerable financial support to a research project on the same theme. The project is based on the successful experience in relation to extremes. In addition to immediate action, targeted prevention measures of a long-term nature need to be put in place. This is done by several departments and several of the measures are coordinated in the State Secretary Committee for Children and Young People. I would like to mention some of the long-term preventive measures. The Oslo Middle East action programme is a broad initiative with specific actions aimed at children and young people with a migrant background. The programme involves several departments and departments in the municipality of Oslo. One of the challenges is the engagement and accountability of the parent group. Research shows that young people seeking the criminal gangs have little follow-up from their parents in life outside the home. Among other things St.meld. No 14 for 1997-98 shows this. In the case of crimes committed by repeaters, it is a fact that a small group of offenders are responsible for a large part of the crime. The Ministry's aim is to ensure that this group has its affairs decided quickly, so that there is not a long time between apprehension and possible punishment. The Ministry of Justice will organise a symposium to focus on how the length of time between the different stages of the criminal proceedings can be reduced to a minimum. Because the question is about the situation in Oslo, I would like to point out in particular that the Oslo police district aims to increase the number of requests for custody of repeaters by 25 p.m., so that they are not immediately released after apprehension. At the same time, a separate courtroom at Oslo Tinghus will be disposed of for cases where the repeaters are involved. This ensures rapid criminal proceedings, adequate low maintenance time and rapid detection.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1573	I thank you for the answer, which shows that the Government is working on new measures. An important area where the government needs to work more is to ensure that agencies and administrative bodies — whether child protection, municipalities, police or the judiciary — have adequate frameworks so that they can do the big and important job they now need to do more. Strong strengthening of cooperation between police, child protection, home, PP and other facilities is needed. Can you think of new ways to organize this work? A few days ago, I received a letter from a project at Hamar, where there is cooperation between the police, criminal services in freedom, prison, social services, employment services, drug treatment and more. They say they're able to find solutions, but they're stopped by legislation. Does the effort now being made by the Government mean that they are also going into and looking at legislation to help people who have committed criminal acts but are to be rehabilitated into society, so that measures are not stopped by unnecessary legislation in the various disciplines?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1580	Yes, I can confirm that. We are busy looking at legislation that prevents good cooperation between sectors. It's true here, and it's true in a lot of other areas. What we have to recognize is that it's a difficult cleanup work, because it's usually a pretty good foundation for laws in isolation, and then one is going to make this work across the board. That's why we're in the process of looking at this, and we're trying, both as politicians and in the government, to break down some of the traditional way of thinking about, where one places responsibility somewhere else, and try instead, as Andersen's representative asks, to look at it together. I think we're going to be humble and say we haven't gotten far, but we've started, we're on the way. And we're taking good initiatives, like that from Hamar and other places, and we're going to do our best to get this done.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1590	I regret to see that I have to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions – but as she is ill-appointed, I am pleased that the Council of State Lilletun will answer: ‘The Western-Agder Police Commissioner now enters to restrict the police service in Flekkefjord Municipality. Flekkefjord Police Station shall be closed on Sundays and between hours. 23:00 – 7:00 every day of the week. This is a major and significant step back for police and preparedness in Flekkefjord, which also has ring-fenced effects on neighbouring municipalities. What will the Council of State do to prevent this?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1599	It is the police chief who is responsible for how the work is prioritised in a police district. It is also up to the police chief to establish and implement watch and emergency arrangements so that the service provision can be optimised overall within the allocated framework. In such an assessment, both tasks and resources must be proportionate. In the police and county councils, various forms of service have been set up. This may be full-time active service, cross-border vigilance or back-up services in the form of home guards. In this it is that there will be varying services in the police and county seats, depending on tasks and geographical conditions. In the case of the Flekkefjord municipality police service, the chief of police has informed that both watchful and emergency considerations have been adequately safeguarded in the conversion of the service envisaged. At the time of the day when there is no active service, the standby will be resolved by reserve service. This system is made up of police officers who are available on standby and will move out as necessary. I can assure the representative Kleppe that here the department will follow two lines. One is that the freedom that lies in the delegation of responsibility to the individual police chambers and county councils in order to make their resources the best possible, we don't think we're going to take from them to make the Ministry of Justice an over-police office or a district councillor. At the same time, I can promise the representative Kleppe that we will follow closely the development in all areas and have a dialogue, in this case with the chief of police in West Agder, if it turns out that this has negative consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1610	It was not a reassuring answer, at least not when the Council of State stuck to what he had brought with him from the ministry. But when the Council of State began to talk based on its attitudes and opinions on this, it immediately got better. I am so pleased that the Council of State Lilletun will follow this closely, and if there are any problems, he would come back – that is how I understood it – with measures to avoid financial resources. From that point of view, I am too satisfied. But what happens in our country, which also happens in Flekkefjord, is that we are closing down the opportunities for law-abiding citizens to move safely. The fact that the police station has a voicemail between hours. 23:00 and 23:00 7:00 a.m. isn't reassuring. I would like to remind you that Flekkefjord Police Chamber, with the help of the nearby police chamber last September, had a seizure of over 1 tonne of hashish. This shows that crime in Flekkefjord and the South is the same as elsewhere in the country. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State to confirm that he will follow in particular up Flekkefjord, considering what he concluded his previous post with.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1617	The President will take the opportunity to remind the representative, Kleppe, that when the Council of State reads from its documents, it is not called the Department, it is the Council of State that makes its statement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1620	I thank the representative Kleppe for expressing some confidence in the Council of State in his supplementary question. Then we can well see that it is hopefully not the fact that cork Kleppe or I are currently in a state of suspension in West Agder, which means that they can reduce preparedness. It is an internal working group in the police district that, in the context of the merger of Flekkefjord Police Station and Flekkefjord County Councillors, has worked on the new service system. A review of the watch records for the last six months shows that the average was one expression per year. the week within which it is currently being added to the fallback service. The Home Guard scheme will consist of four service providers to cover Flekkefjord and Kvinesdal municipalities. This means that if a person receives a response from a telephone answering machine when a call is sent to the police station, he will also receive a telephone number from the guard and can call the person directly. And then they ask whether this is a reasonable way to organise the service: the most likely people on the tasks to be solved.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1630	I want to ask you the following questions: ‘Many are busy setting up a central reservation register to avoid telephone sales. I know that the Ministry of Justice has worked for a long time on the regulations relating to this matter, in particular the guards of the single-dwelling mentally and physically disabled are very confused about the collection requirements that accumulate in connection with telephone and door sales. Can the Council of State continue to work on the regulations in this matter, so as to avoid these problems in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1639	The Ministry of Justice is currently working on a regulation for the establishment of a central reservation register. The register was scheduled to start in 1999. This is stated in the St.prp. No 1 for 1998-99 chapters. 462 pcs. 5.5. The budget for 1999 for the Brønn Island Health Registers was cut by 6 million by Stortinget. kr. Within the given budgetary framework, the Brønnøysund Registers must give priority to the tasks already assigned to them. In view of the budget cut for 1999, it may therefore be difficult to set up a central booking register this year. It is in itself regrettable, but one must first carry out the tasks that you already have, and as a cut, something actually has to wait.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1646	I thank you for the answer, but I'm really not happy with that. I regret to say that the budgetary cooperation that took place in the autumn actually once again shows that it affects the weakest and places them in an even more difficult position than the one they have been in. In addition to the fact that this means a lot to the weakest, it also means a lot to ordinary people, both old and others who find it hard to say no when people are either on the phone or on the door. I simply note from what the Council of State has said, that with the help of the Progress Party and the Right, it has once again gone beyond the weakest.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1653	It is an important principle in all political work that one takes the most important first. I agree that there are many who want clearer regulations and guidelines in this sector, but I want to reserve myself when it comes to that this is something that strongly affects the weakest. I'm sorry that I don't have so much detail that I think about how this part of the budget was signed and who was in it, but at the same time it was a collective realization that we actually needed a tight budget this year to bring down the interest. Then I can't see that the most serious thing was that this was a little delayed. The Ministry of Justice has decided, at its internal level, that the regulation should be completed on 1 December 1999. The regulation has already been in the process of being heard, and there is still a need to assess the hearing outcomes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1660	We will then deal with questions 31–33.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1666	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Church, Education and Research, who now has an opportunity to return to his more natural role: ‘The Ministry has approved the application of the Congregation of God to set up a private elementary school at Ørsnes in the Awake! The municipal council has unanimously appealed the decision, inter alia, because the members are totally subject to the opinions of the chairman, and only the senior priest has the right to make public statements. Does not the Council of State consider this to be a concern and should not give priority to local priorities?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1675	The Church of God Primary School was approved on 23 December 1998 with the right to state support after private schools. The Ministry has spent a long time making a comprehensive assessment of all aspects of the application for authorisation, dated 6 January 1997. The approval was granted on the basis of the requirements of the private spherenova. It has been stressed that the school has revealed that it represents a religious alternative to the public base, and that it further meets the professional requirements of the law. The ability to establish private schools for religious reasons is basically rooted in parental and religious freedom. Parents have the right to choose a pension for their children. Privateculelova opens so that under certain conditions they can get state support to create private schools that provide accommodation on a different basis of life than the public school. It is important for me to stress the fundamental point of departure when the representative Norvoll asks critical questions in relation to focusing on and taking account of local priorities when assessing this specific matter. Local views are important and should of course be emphasised as part of the Ministry's overall assessment of the principle and requirements of law. Nevertheless, the importance of local priorities may mean that private schools have to give up, which may mean that private schools really have little to say in small communities. In this case, in the letter of approval of 23 December 1998, we have made some demands for the approval of the Church of God Primary School. This includes: underlines strongly the need for the school to pick up impulses and incentives from the community, to help students participate in their own local environment and to stimulate cooperation and dialogue with a lack of local authorities and organisations working on measures for children and young people in the municipality. As the representative Norvoll said in his question, the municipality of Vågan, in a letter dated 18 January 1999, appealed to the Ministry for its approval. The Ministry will now carefully assess the complaint. So I don't think it's right to comment on the matter in addition to what I said here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1690	I thank you for the answer and am glad that the Council of State will go through the matter thoroughly again, but I have to say that I have a certain understanding that it is limited how thoroughly he can go into the matter here in the Question Time. However, I must be allowed to say that by making a decision to approve this school, one helps to split a town in Lofoten. I agree that this is a fundamental question, but the principle that is important to me is that the school should be a meeting place, and that it should contribute to promoting tolerance and understanding across different groups. This is not helped by giving the community a school of its own, and thus isolating itself even more from society than it is now. I note that the Council of State stresses that it will be stimulated for cooperation and dialogue in the community, and I hope that this will be followed closely up. After all, that is the main reason why the municipality of Vågan has appealed this decision against the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1697	I want to confirm again that we will have a thorough treatment when the anchor reaches our table. In principle, I want to express that one is in a dilemma a good deal when parents in smaller towns strongly want an alternative to the public school. In those cases, there are clearly two conflicting interests. One is about the overall rural environment; the other is the right of parents themselves to decide on the assignment and training of their children. In that voltage field, we're standing. When it comes to this specific matter, I will return to her. When it comes to the main principle, it's important for this council and this government to hold on to it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1705	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Church, Education and Research: ‘Researcher Ragnhild Bjørnebeck at the Oslo Police College says, in the context of recent statistics from the Oslo Police Chamber, that the school has not been able to develop good strategies to capture immigrant boys who have fundamental problems with their development. In Oslo, Gran School has done a lot of successful work in this field. What will the Council of State do to bring out successful knowledge to others and to give more opportunities for better schooling and enhanced auxiliaries?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1714	The representative Reikvam raises important questions relating to serious problems in both school and community. Many parties have failed when young boys over time develop such criminal behavior as was documented by the police officer in Oslo last week. This is about destructive conditions in society that also intervene in the school. Creating a good environment for growth and learning is a challenge for wide-ranging mobilization of responsibilities in many instances. Parents, schools, other municipal and state institutions and etatars, immigrant organisations and b. has a co-responsibility to reverse the frightening developments we have now come to know. The representative, Rikvam, highlights the work of Gran School at Furuset, Oslo, in this area. I myself had the opportunity to get to know the contents of this work and the promising results when I visited the school in the conditions of Grundskuleveka in November 1998. This is why the Ministry is very pleased that knowledge and experience from this type of initiative are being disseminated. Information on the measures taken at Gran School is now being disseminated to other schools in Oslo and Akershus. I also note that municipal and state authorities have gained knowledge of promising initiatives and actions through the «Oslo inner East» project. The government is busy with a broad and cross-ministerial commitment to children and young people in their growing-up environment. From such a perspective, the Ministry of Education and Research is working on several specific issues and measures to improve the learning environment in the school and to strengthen competence in meeting such challenges as the representative of Rikamm points out. I am not sure what to do with it.\t\t You By following up on St. Meld. No 23 for 1997-98, Training of children, young people and adults with special needs, is strengthened on a national basis by bringing the PPT closer to 300 settings. Measures to prevent behavioural difficulties and resolve conflicts in the learning environment will be included as a central theme in the planned three-year school-leaders and PP addence competence development programme. As part of a broad effort to improve the growing-up environment in some experimental municipalities, special efforts are being made in the school in three municipalities, including one part of Oslo. The initiative will aim to involve schools, elephants and parents in the work of preventing violence, racism, bullying, intoxication and crime. Student work, the development of democracy in the school and enhanced cooperation with other local authorities will be a central perspective. The government will take St.meld. No 25 for 1998-99, Parental education in primary school, raises some issues that are important for pupils from linguistic minorities. Can not open message on the value of providing these students with training equivalent to that given to Norwegian language parents, and underlines the importance of working closely together at home and school in these cases.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1735	I thank you for your answer. I am pleased with the attempts that are now being made. Getting new professional groups into school is important as preventive work. Behavioral researcher Størksen at the Center for Behavioral Research in Stavanger underlines very strongly that we need to bring in new and different disciplines. He specifically mentions child protection and the PP service. The leader of the League of Teachers in Oslo has been involved in the same thing. She has said that we need to bring in new adult groups that can work cross-sectorally, and mention environmental workers, socionomists, psychologists, etc. In a Bærum school there was a cross-sectoral project going on. The results of this project were good, but due to poor finances it was not continued after the end of the project period. My follow-up question to the Council of State will be: Will he take initiatives with regard to municipalities that have good experience and who have been involved in projects with a view to their continuation, and will he receive funds to enable this to be done? - Because it's a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1742	I want to confirm that we are going to do a lot of what the Rikvam representative said. The parent choice of the basic school, combined with the ministry, launches a parental information project to improve general cooperation between school and home. The project will take place in two counties, Nordland and Uppland, and here we will also present the good experiences from Gran School and a number of other experiences. When it applies to the projects in the three municipalities that I mentioned, we have added extra funds in relation to them. Otherwise I'll say that when e.g. Mr. Bærum's council, I'm wondering that it's the economy that stops such a project. I think we have to assume that it's a municipal responsibility. Today, I have also been delighted to open the first national conference for schooling. It is an amazingly exciting project. But both in the attempt to present Gran School and what we're doing when it's about schooling, we've experienced that it doesn't have the same media interest as all the negative ones have. But it doesn't mean that we're not going to follow up on what the representative Rikam is doing here today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1752	I would like to ask the Minister of Church, Education and Research the following questions: «From the school year 1999-2000, technical vocational school is moving to a new structure. The new introductory Regulations require documented competence in the compulsory general subjects for applicants with a professional letter prior to R-94. In relation to the regulations in force, this is an intensification and will exclude many applicants concerned. The size has in Innst. S. No 78 stated that no such requirement shall be imposed on § 20 candidates. [[1998-99]] Will the Council of State change the admission requirement to technical vocational school?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1761	The take-up requirement for technical disciplines according to new structure will be professional letters and two years' practice. After reform 94, most of them will have completed the 2+2 model, i.e. two years in school with basic and continuing course plus two years in company training. The new technical school curricula, to be used in the autumn of 1999, are based on knowledge in general subjects which corresponds to the level after completion of the secondary course 1 in vocational training courses in schools. During the two years of technical college, students will have general study competence. In order for students in technical colleges to be able to take part in general education in the field of study in the course of technical colleges, it is a condition that they have real competence in the field. This also applies to trade union workers who have passed a test under Section 20. As a transitional arrangement, it is possible to include applicants with pre-reform certificates or with long and relevant practice and real competence in general subjects at VK I level. This was communicated by the department in its own circular autumn 1998. The bullets themselves can assess whether the seeker has the necessary real competence. In many technical disciplines, an advanced course is about to be arranged to update non-realistic seekers. It is also open for one to build real skills through training in technical disciplines. The reason for the misinterpretation of the admission requirements of a new technical college may be that a brochure has been published on a private initiative by a technical school profiling group. This leaflet provides incorrect information. It states that documented competence is required in the general and non-real sciences, as is stated in the circular from the Ministry. The brochure was not submitted for the department until it was sent out. Technical colleges have the objective of providing technical education and leadership training to people with long and versatile professional experience. In a new technical school structure, common general subjects have been introduced to provide general study competence. These are knowledge that is needed in our modern society. Societies are changing rapidly, technological developments are moving faster and faster. An important part of the work of a technician will be communication with different professional groups, including cross-border. It is therefore important that students receive training in both their mother tongues, their language of choice and their social sciences. Mathematics and natural sciences are a means of understanding the technical subjects. In addition, technical colleges shall be a means of recruiting higher education. There is also an increasing interest in this in the labour market, because it is required by leaders and intermediaries in the future. I want to take a close look at the experience with the intake for coming school years, considering any changes in the recording rules. The challenge will be to practice the recording rules so that those who do not have the formal competence can be admitted to technical colleges on the basis of real competence.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1774	I thank you for the answer and will add that it was a certain attendance compared to what I was concerned about. Technical college is under pressure, and it's been under pressure ever since we got Reform 94. It was forgotten in many ways in the context of reform 94, and it has suffered afterward. We also know that applications have fallen dramatically in recent years. It is important that we now call about technical vocational school. I'm a little worried if we make a system that makes it harder for adult people who have their education before reform 94, to be admitted to technical colleges. And I feel like we're about to do that. Although the Council of State uses the term ‘real competence’, I am nevertheless concerned that this can exclude many, and the advances, as explained by the Council of State, are also in many ways a terror for many who have a certain fear of theory. I hope the Council of State will look at this one more time, review it again and open the way for the old system to be maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1783	The President has a great deal of respect for the fact that the representative of Sv would like to have a little more speaking time, but nevertheless he has to stick to the speaking times.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1786	The part of the brochure which gives incorrect information that study competence is required shall, in circular form, be known as dead and powerless. Furthermore, it is quite clear that the representative, Reikvam, and I have a common understanding that technical colleges should be an offer to those who do not have a theoretical background, but who want to develop either as intermediaries or to go further, for example. in engineering studies, etc. But at the same time, I think the representative, Rikvam, and I'm a few of them, that in order to do the tasks of a modern society, a good part of these subjects is actually necessary. For this reason, it is the intention of this Council of State – and I believe I also share it with the representative, Mr Requam – in connection with the spirit of both the notification of competence and the setting of the notification of competence that ‘real competence’ should really be used, that the entrance should be simple, but at the same time the quality assurance at the end must be maximum. That is the goal of this Council of States.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1793	We go back to question 26.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1799	This question from the representative Synnøve Konglevoll to the Minister of Labour and Administration is raised by the representative Tomas Norvoll.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1802	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Labour and Administration: ‘In its oral Question Time on 20 January 1999, the Council of State Løwer indicated that the State has granted almost free plots to SiO, Student Union of Oslo, and did not exclude the Ministry from doing so several times. Does this mean that the Council of State considers selling state properties to communications also outside Oslo, and will the Council of State take an initiative towards host municipalities so that they can also contribute to cheap student housing by selling municipal properties for a symbolic price to student relations?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1811	In the state, we have a law for the disposal of state properties. This legislation requires the disposal of the country's properties at market prices, unless otherwise provided by the Stortinget. The state of v/Statsbyg has fixed off two plots in the Gaustadbekk valley to Student Association in Oslo at a symbolic price. In one case it applied to the site of the sports complex Domus Athletica, and in the other case it applied to the site for the construction of student housing. The plot of Domus Athletica was attached away at a symbolic price because the Stortinget had assumed that empty free was made available. In the context of the revised national budget in 1998, the Government proposed that land be attached to Student Cooperation in Oslo at a symbolic price for the construction of student housing. The majority agreed to this. The initiative towards the Government was taken by the Minister of Church, Education and Research and I jointly responsible for student policy and the properties managed by State Building. If there are requests from outside Oslo for the disposal of land under my responsibility, I will, in the same way as with the Student Cooperation in Oslo, assess the request and the further initiative in consultation with the Minister for Church, Education and Research and the Minister for Finance. However, it is noted that the number of students in Oslo is high and the housing market is particularly under pressure, and that this may put Oslo in a special position. The Ministry of Churches, Education and Research has set up a working group to assess the responsibility of the host municipalities for student welfare. We know that there are different policies in the host municipalities to give or subsidize plots to student homes and student children's gardens. The housing and land issue is a very central issue in this investigation. The Working Party shall report to the Ministry of Church, Education and Research by 1 April of this year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1826	I thank the Council of State for a good and informative answer. But does that mean that she gave the answer that the Council of State is going to be active and positive if applications are made from places other than Oslo, or new applications from Oslo? There are a lot of projects around that have come into trouble because there have been problems with getting reasonable plots for construction, whether it be for student homes or other social student schemes. Colleges and universities have a certain tendency to lie in the largest cities where there is a pressure on the housing market and where the plots are relatively expensive. I am aware that the Ministry of Education is working with the responsibility of the host municipalities. We get back to that case when it is available. I would just like to say, on a more general basis, that it is a little strange that when new offers are to be created, we have the rapporteurs and local authorities running in flocks and following in order to operate lobbying, but when a job is to be done and the municipalities have to set up to facilitate the universities and universities, it is more settled from that point of view. So my follow-up question is whether the Council of States will take a positive view of requests that come from elsewhere, and whether she will treat them in a relatively mild and straightforward way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1833	It was because we were mild and fine that we gave it the grant to build student homes in Oslo as we did. And the future form of work will be the same: when such questions come up – and if the state can contribute anything in relation to land – the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Church, Education and Research and I look at the matter. I can't make any promises, I'm sure the representative understands that. But we have a political desire to contribute, as we did in Oslo, so that the students can live in a reasonable way, a need we see is difficult for them to get covered.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1843	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘How far has it been in the follow-up to the decision on the construction of gas-powered ferries for the Arsvågen – Mortavika ferry link?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1850	The regulatory framework for the construction and operation of gas fuelled ferries has been fully developed. The technical challenges of gas-fuelled ferries have also been solved. Earlier this month, a contract was concluded with the Norwegian workshop for the construction of gas-powered ferries for More and Romsdal County boats as. The test is based on liquefied gas, LNG, supplied on a tanker from the Tent Goods. Ferra, which will have 100 car spaces and certificates for up to 300 passengers, is assumed to be used in connection with the Moldefjord. The investment costs will be approx. 30 pst. higher than for an equivalent diesel-powered ferry. As I know, this world's largest passenger ship is built for gas operation. In addition, the first passenger ships in the world are constructed in accordance with a separate legislation for the construction and operation of such ships. I consider this newly built pioneer project. As indicated in the Ministry’s draft budget for this year, it seems impracticable to build a ferry for the Mortavika – Arsvågen link based on compressed gas test operations, CNG. Deliveries of liquefied gas from the Tjeldbergodden are a little-known solution, among other things. due to high transport costs. The production of liquefied gas from a condensation plant near the link to the energy price comparable to the price of diesel has not been clarified. A gas ferry will reduce only a small part of the production of the installation. Therefore, both the market opportunities and the financing of such an installation remain to be clarified.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1859	I thank the Council of State for the answer and the briefing he gave on the now contracted gas-powered ferry. I find that this is how the Council of State sketched out, there are a number of problems in getting the other gas ferry started, between Arsvågen and Mortavika. This concerns both the market and the supply problem, i.e. the terminal. My supplementary question to the Council of State is: Can the Council of State now outline progress, and will the Council of State come back to Stortinget with a briefing on the further plans to get this link on rails in the case of gas ferries?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1868	It is true that in parts of the answer I referred to a different connection, but it was to show that there is a development in this area, and that there is a connection between the two ferries that have been treated in the past. As far as this matter is concerned, it is mentioned in detail in the budget proposal for this year, and in the light of a number of parties in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, I am asked to return in an appropriate form to the Stortinget. I do, but I do not have any final answers regarding the time perspective for this or the questions I raised in the main reply to the representative Nordtun now. I'm busy seeing what I can do. That's what I can say right now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1878	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘Is it true that the transport authorities have decided to merge the White Island and Skudenes connections from the year 2000?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1885	In view of, inter alia: initiatives from the political level in Rogaland have for a long time been aimed at improving the capacity and frequency of the deployment of a third ferry into the Mortavika-Arsvågen national road network. As the budgetary situation is tight, it is necessary to see the use of resources in conjunction with other national road ferry services across the Bokenfjord. In this context, it is also considered that the conversion of the rickshaw connections to Wittsøy and Skudeneshavn into a triangle connection is considered. It would then be appropriate to operate the connection with a newly built ferry with up to 67 parking spaces. Today's ferries are old and mature for replacement. It has been estimated that the annual cost of the triangle relationship will be lower than the current cost of the two relationships. This includes the cost of capital for newly built and supplementing the ferry offer to White Island by fast boat. The proposal was dealt with by the county in December and is now to new county municipal treatment. The Ministry has therefore not completed the examination of this case, nor has it taken any decision to convert the two national road links into a triangle. There is scarcity of ferries and scarce appropriations for operation of the highways. I therefore hope that the state policy treatment of the case contributes to a local solution.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1894	I thank the Council of State for the answer. As I understood it, the central road authorities have not yet decided what is to happen in this outer part of the fjord, in the relationship between Skudenes and Mekkarvik. But I want to draw the attention of the Council of State – which I think he is – to the fact that there are clear statements and signals from the municipalities concerned. There is no doubt about what Karmøy and Wititsøy municipalities etc. There is no doubt as to what the majority of the Committee on Transport has said on these matters. There is now a great deal of anxiety and fear that this connection will be greatly reduced for road users in this island community and for Karmøy in order to have a triangle in the area. But I have the expectation to the Council of State that he will intervene, so that neither capacity nor offer will be reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1901	When the Stortinget dealt with the transport budget for this year, the very tight operating and maintenance frameworks were adopted. There was even a dispute about the size of the frames, but it is not the theme here today. Within that framework, we made it clear that many good and fair desires could not be met. That's why I'm always responsive to local treatment, if you can find solutions. The current local treatment of these compounds is not completed. I'm waiting for that answer, based on the simple fact that no one can have more money than what exists, and no one can have more ferries than what exists, but if you find a friendly agreement, it's always of the good. But as I said, the pressure is now local, and I'm waiting for the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1909	I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Transport: «A Danish tourist died in a car accident in Valdres on 17 January 1999. It was nice, and the car had summer tyres. Danish winter tourists who drive cars with summer tyres in Valdres are not an unusual sight. How can it be allowed that foreign-registered cars can drive around with unadapted tyres and endanger both themselves and others, and what will the Council of State do about this?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1918	It is very unfortunate that foreign vehicles run smooth Norwegian winter roads only equipped with summer tyres. However, this is not allowed. The use of winter tyres, including chain where appropriate, is required when conditions require such equipment. This is explicitly stated in the regulation on the use of vehicles § 1-4, where it includes, inter alia, is: ‘Vehicles shall not be used without adequate grip in relation to the guide, if necessary by use of winter tyres with or without spikes, chains or similar.’ Responsibility for the fitting of vehicles in accordance with this Regulation lies with the driver and inadequate tyre equipment provides a basis for criminal liability. However, drivers of non-resident vehicles may misjudge conditions in Norway. In addition, it has been necessary to improve the control and information of border crossings with regard to mandatory tyre equipment in Norway. The Directorate of Roads has therefore, in consultation with the Ministry of Transport on 9 September 1998, sent out a clarification to all road offices on how to understand and practice the legislation. In addition, the Road Directorate is now working on a brochure in several languages to be distributed at all border stations of the country and to car users’ organisations etc. in other countries, which makes it clear that in Norway winter tyres or chains are required when the road is smooth.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1934	I thank you for your answer. It is said that the ferries offer rental of winter tyres, but not everyone agrees to the offer. The border stations are here referred to as an area, but shouldn't there also be an opportunity to follow it up already on the ferry? It's probably so that many tourists who have been here, perhaps just have been to Oslo. If they come up in the mountain ranges, there's a completely different lead we're talking about, so they get an unpleasant surprise. I wonder if it can't be possible to follow up at a little earlier time than just at the border station.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1941	The border station is important, because not everyone comes to Norway with ferries. But I see well the point of view about ferries, and I'm going to take that view that when you're going to give information material further, you should look at all practical possibilities. I would add that in the case of foreign registered vehicles in Norway, there is already a strong reaction in the case of heavy-duty vehicles. There are very important border stations, with a mandatory check to look at, inter alia. letters of lading and being active. So the point of view that the representative has taken up is very much on my mind, it's on road safety and saving lives and avoiding damage.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1952	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘NSB has decided that the freight night train on the Nordlandsbanen will no longer stop in the Lake of Mosque. The lake is the third largest densest place along the Northern Railway in Northernland and the traffic nook point for both goods and persons going to and from the inner and outer Helgeland. The result is that the goods are now transferred to a vehicle train on the highly accident-affected E6 through Northernland. Does the Council of State believe that moving freight from rail to road is a good environmental policy and road safety policy?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1961	NSB Freight is continuously working on finding transport solutions that meet both the customer’s requirements for quality and flexibility and profitability requirements. Therefore, in relation to the Sea of the Sea, the NSB has seen the need to make adjustments to the operational arrangements. This has happened in dialogue with the customers, and the NSB believes that they now have a competitive offer of service via Mo i Rana, Bodø or Trondheim. Centrally in the NSB’s assessments concerning the operation of container customers is the use of the Nordlandsbanen for the transport of fish. The NSB attaches great importance to the establishment of an attractive offer in relation to the transport of fish to the continent. This is a time-sensitive transport and therefore the NSB has found it necessary to find solutions for the fastest possible transport so that the company can offer competitive rail fishing services. The operating arrangements now in place mean that the total volume of goods running on the railway is increasing. In addition, this operational structure will result in increased competitiveness for the NSB, which is expected to provide positive ring-effects for the railway as a mode of transport.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1968	I thank the Council of State for the answer, even though the Council of State's response is to a large extent contradictory to the signals coming from local teams regarding the understanding of the changes that have been made. No mention is made of the fact that the quantity of goods is a problem which has contributed to the adjustments made on the Nordlandsbanen. On the other hand, the problem has been waiting time at the station in the Baltic Sea – waiting for the opposite passenger train. However, what may concern the Council of State, which is in many ways the chief executive in the field of transport policy, is the work that is now being done in the Directorate of Roads. Work is done there with a regulation to open the way for the use of 25 1⁄4 metres of vehicle combinations with a total weight of 60 tonnes, while at the same time NSB Gods works to get the most goods from road to rail as part of the national transport plan. Does the Council of State see the issue related to those questions?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1975	First, a general comment. If NSB Gods does not reorganise its business, the freight trains become less and less rare. Using transhipment by car to strengthen the railway as a freight form strengthens the railway. This will actually lead to a freight volume that increases the number of trains, and in the case of the lake, the freight train is kept. The second question raised by the representative is the general competitive relationship between road and rail. In this context, I am very aware of the problem that is linked to the vehicle trains he mentions, and I would like, among other things. address those questions when I am going to visit the German Presidency of Transport in Bonn at the beginning of February. I am here generally concerned that the railway should be able to strengthen its development, but will not now link further comments to a case that has not been dealt with. At the moment, as far as I know, only in Sweden and Finland do you have such carriages as this, while the rest of Europe, among others. Germany, don't allow it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1982	Questions 31, 32 and 33 have already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1988	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Defence: «Last week, KV «Åvat» was used as a transport ship in Meløy municipality during police missions. The police's mission was to separate a ‘dumper’ and to investigate a suspicion of unlawful use of snowmobiles. High costs are associated with the use of a coastguard ship in this way. Does the Council of State consider this to be the correct resource use of Coast Guard vessels?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e1997	It is true, as the representative Svendsen claims, that KV ‘Å Sea’ was used as a transport vessel for a police mission in Meløy. However, it is important to stress that an appropriate assessment of the use of the Coast Guard’s resources requires the use of the Coast Guard’s tasks. A very central task is the strengthening of sovereignty within the territorial waters and the exercise of authority in the sea areas under Norwegian jurisdiction, for example in the economic zone of Norway and in the protection zone of Svalbard. This places great demands on the presence and ability of effective monitoring. When the Coast Guard vessels are on patrol, they are continuously prepared to provide e.g.: disaster relief and rescue. In examining the Ministry of Finance's budget proposal for 1993-94, the Stortinget endorsed the objective of maximising the State's overall resources in coastal management. It was against this background that the Internal Coast Guard was established in 1995/96. With this establishment, and in the light of the rules in force, the Coast Guard carries out civil society assistance tasks in addition to the main tasks I mentioned above. The Internal Coast Guard is based on a multi-use concept, which means that institutions such as the Police, Customs and State Pollution Control can be assisted by the Coast Guard in carrying out its tasks. This is in line with the conclusion of the Storting. At the same time, I would like to stress that the tasks of user activities are always subject to priority. Important tasks are ahead of the less important ones, and the primary tasks of the Coast Guard are given priority over assistance to other departments. This makes optimum use of resources. It is in this general context that the assistance of the KV ‘Åhave’ to the member of the army of Meløy must be seen. ‘OWN’ KV carries out its assigned principal tasks at the same time as it is able to provide assistance to establishments such as: Police. It is clear that the ship was on patrol in the area outside Meløy and had free capacity to assist the police. Since the ship was on the patrol and could combine it with a task for the police, the additional costs of this operation would be negligible. Therefore, I believe that this kind of mission is initially in line with the intention of the Inner Coast Guard. I would also like to stress that this type of transport operation is not a very high priority task in the Coast Guard. Internal Coast Guard activities have been undertaken for a relatively short period of time and the service is continuously evaluated with a view to achieving an appropriate and cost-effective use of resources. I therefore think it is positive that the use of the Inner Coast Guard is the subject of debate. The question from the representative Svendsen is also related to another theme, namely the implementation of a user payment system for some coastal guard services. The Ministry will assess different models for such a system in the current year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e2012	I thank you for your answer. The fact that the Coast Guard ships are used by the police may make sense, but there must be a need for a rapid call-out. For the purpose of separation – in this case a loader was involved – I think that I go far beyond the line, especially given that the Car Authority, who requested the separation, claims that this was completely unnecessary and could have been done in another way. In such a case, a ferry or a speedboat should be used. Unfortunately, this example is not unique. I have received telephone calls that the Coast Guard has carried the bilgeman on snowmobile control to an island where there is only one old snowmobile – and there was only rhyme on the ground. Boat moorings have also been pulled up in the control unit. I assume that the Council of State agrees that such examples can both undermine respect for law and order and weaken the support of the Coast Guard in the coastal population. No one's earned it. I hope the Council of State takes these signals seriously, and I want to ask him if he will take the initiative to intensify the use of the Inner Coast Guard, so that this part of the Defense may still have broad support among the coastal population.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e2023	As I mentioned, the Inner Coast Guard is a new establishment, or a new part of an establishment, which is under ongoing review. The matters pointed out by the representative Svendsen will be included in the current assessment. I also register the reaction of the representative Svendsen, and the examples he refers to. It is natural that these are also included in the basis for the overall assessment. Like Svendsen, I agree, as the Council of State, that the support of the Coast Guard in the coastal population is important to maintain. It is important to continue to focus on increased activity at the Coast Guard and on adequate resource availability if we are to assign it to an increasingly new task. So here's a context that will be presented to the Storting in a very short time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e2033	I have the following questions for the Minister of Defence: ‘In the evening post of 22 January 1999, it is stated that Norwegian pilots in the NATO force now travelling to Italy can operate only in daylight, as they lack competence and technical night light capability to allow pilots to see in the dark. Does the Council of State consider this to be satisfactory?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e2042	The aeroplanes sent to Italy have not reviewed the Mid-Life Update update program. Therefore, aeroplanes lack the system upgrade required to exploit the aircraft’s weapons at night under the safety rules and criteria normally applicable in a peace operation. Norwegian F-16 has been registered with NATO in relation to their current performance, both in terms of material and training. Air defence has been training in night operations for all years, but the main objective has been to maintain a minimum capacity, primarily in order to be able to assert sovereignty in peace, and to defend itself against an easily identifiable resistance. In other words, we can fly operationally in the dark, but today we do not have systems that are able to identify much enough targets at night in a satisfactory way in a peace operation. When the F-16 Mid-Life Update upgrade is technically completed in 2001, the training of pilots will continue to benefit fully from the new system. So even if the plane is upgraded, it will require a significant training of pilots before we can say that we are operational with the new capacity of Mid-Life Update providing our planes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e2056	I thank the Minister for the answer. I thought it was disturbing to read what I did in the evening post. I thought you had a defense that was ready to go to war at any time. According to the Evening Post on 24 January, Norwegian generals say that Norway is soon on the sideline in NATO. It is a ‘fact that the forces of the Navy, the Army and the Air Force do not get all the training they really should have’. ‘The situation in today’s Norwegian defence has certain similarities to the situation in 1939’, says formerly Defense Chief Arne Solli in the Evening Post on the same day. Do the government councils see the same danger signals as the head of defense?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e2069	The Minister of Defence does not see the problems in the same way as they were now described, because the head of defence said something more in his interview. You can't just read the ingress and forget what the context of the ingress is. I would also like to remind you that the Norwegian defence is ready to go to war. There's no doubt about it. We're operational. What I have tried to underline, and which is misrepresented by those who have spoken in the newspapers, is that we are trained on night operations, we are trained on night flights, and we are operational in relation to the tasks we are going to do in Italy and in Kosovo, in relation to what we have reported, in relation to the escort services and follow-up tasks we are going to have. We are a full member of NATO. NATO has been informed of the situation from year to year and has accepted it. So there is nothing that is unknown, either for NATO, for the Ministry of Defence or for Norwegian politicians – if you had gone into the annual reports for recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e2079	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘In France, drugs containing the active substance buprenorphine have had remarkable results in the treatment of drug addicts. Among other things, the number of overdoses has been reduced by 70 pst. in four years. The drugs should have clear benefits compared to methadone. Will the Council of State take the initiative to require and extend testing of buprenorphine-assisted treatment in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e2088	The situation of the most heavily charged drug users has worsened over the last few years, while overdose deaths have increased. Both the physical and mental health of the addicts have been worse. The abusers include: more severe and have several infections, as well as a lot of pain with anxiety and depression. My starting point is that one overdose death is one too much. Strengthening efforts are needed for this group to improve the situation of the addict and to increase the chances of successful rehabilitation and a better life. To achieve this, there must be a width in supply. Sorry, there is not a solution that suits everyone. This means that health provision is closely interwoven with social follow-up. Last year, we launched a series of new actions for this target group, including: social services law has been amended, so that legislation has been more precise and effective to prevent drug users from entering institutions without their own consent. So we're going to arrange for more compulsions. Several new municipalities received funding for post-protection measures. The methadone supply was replaced and is now nationwide. The use of buprenorphine is known in the scientific community in Norway. Norwegian experts visited the project in France last November. They found the results interesting. I myself would like to travel to France first in March for, among other things, to be directly informed of their results. I want Norwegian expertise on the trip and together with them discuss the experience of the French government with this form of medical treatment. The Methadone Centre in Oslo, MARIO, is preparing an experiment aimed at responding to the need for such a provision in the treatment of drug users in Norway. As you know, there is a project in the Ski where Subutex is distributed to drug addicts. In order to provide this drug to drug users, a request was made for the State Medicines Control for a waiver of registration. In addition, there are strict restrictions to be able to provide drugs of this kind to drug users. This must be the case as long as we know that the prescription of addictive drugs from Lige, without close follow-up to the client, increases the risk of overdose. Health surveillance is concerned that not all drugs are equally suitable in so-called substitution treatment. They stress that there must be strict control over what is being printed, and that all such processing must be within the limits of the methadone project. In principle, I believe that the most possible measures to help drug users have to be tried out. If buprenorphine-assisted treatment is shown to be effective and if it can be implemented and implemented in controlled forms with the necessary follow-up, I am willing to evaluate further the use of such treatment in Norway as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e2104	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and will wish her a good trip to Paris. I agree that there must be strict control of the drug being prescribed and that all such treatment must be within the framework of the methadone project. We do not offer methadone treatment to anyone who meets the requirements for such treatment – approx. 500 people are on the waiting list and overdose deaths are higher than ever before. Everything must be tried to significantly reduce overdose deaths, as the Council of State also said. In France, very good experience is gained in the use of drugs containing the active substance buprenorphine. Yes, the results are alarming. Treatment is far more reasonable than methadone-assisted treatment. Can the Council of States not open the possibility that those on the waiting list for methadone-assisted treatment will receive this alternative treatment immediately? And have the Council of State discussed this issue with the Council on Drugs in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e2113	It is right that the representative of Skogholt points out that there are too many people waiting for treatment at this time. I have looked down on a working group to look at both the link between the supply we have today for treatment and the need we have. They will also look at quality and organisation. I'm glad we're together, across different parties, for a stronger effort for the most common drug users. But what's decisive is that the individual gets close follow-up. First, he or she has a chance of being closed. It is the basis of the methadone project, and it must also be possible for us to expand with new preparations. That's why this time is needed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e2123	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: «The daily newspaper of 20 January 1999 presents shocking reports from the county doctor in Oslo on the state at 15 of the city's 55 nursing homes. The supervisory reports document 35 breaches of applicable laws and regulations, inter alia, as a result of low manning and too many unskilled. The Jagland government presented the ‘Action Plan for Health and Care Personnel’, which the current government cut about 20 million. kroner in which it took over. Will the Council of State report on the progress of the action plan?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e2132	The Oslo County Body Report gives all cause for concern. I have also understood that the Municipality of Oslo takes this report seriously and follows up. The government will continue and increase efforts to improve access to qualified personnel in the health and care sector. Today's situation is a result of previous years' neglect when, among other things. relate to educational capacity, and this is particularly true at university and university level. There are also plans in many municipalities to meet future needs for health and social workers. In order to get the best possible overview, the Ministry has asked municipalities to clarify their personnel needs over the next few years. During the remainder of the 1999–2001 action plan, the state’s regional representatives in the counties will cooperate with the municipalities, with the county councils and with the councils on specific qualification and recruitment measures in the individual counties. A particular priority will be given to the qualification of unskilled people, including those with disabilities. by stimulating as much as possible the qualification of care workers and the continuing training of caregivers and other health and social professionals from continuing training. It is right that the representative Eyeågen points out that the Jagland government presented the action plan for health professionals in 1997, with an economic framework of 110 million. in the 1998 draft budget. The proposal was continued in the central government budget proposal for 1998, but was reduced by 19 million. kr at Stortinget’s treatment. In the 1999 budget, the Government has set up a comprehensive presentation of human resources and competences in the health and social sector as a whole. This applies both to the new measures introduced by the action plan in relation to the 1998 budget and to other measures taken by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. The overview shows that the department ran around 286 million. D to human resources and skills objectives in 1998. The government proposed to increase this frame to approximately 324 million. 1999 kr, and got its connection to it. The increase will be particularly related to the escalation plan for mental health and to the preparation of the fixed medical system. In addition to these funds, municipalities will also be able to make use of the means of discretion in the field of elderly people and of the rights of mental health protection for the qualification of personnel. The combined effort from the Ministry to strengthen access to qualified personnel is thus, with the support of the Stortinget, a monthly increase, and an additional increase in admission to health and social studies at universities and higher education institutions will be assessed. Finally, let me stress that the personnel situation in hospitals is not only dependent on the availability of professional personnel. The working environment also has much to say if the staff are well-being and remain in this sector. I know that Oslo municipality in its work now, and also other municipalities, is busy with it. We follow up the self in the Department for the monitoring of factors that create a good and stable working environment in hospitals. Employees who enjoy their work are crucial to the quality of care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e2147	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The situation was that it was a little difficult to understand this statement in the year’s budget and compare it with the original action plan. There was a lot of reason for my question, because very many measures of different kinds were put together. The reality was that the government of Bondevik made a significant cut in the first place, and I wanted to know how to deal with what had been presented, in order to get a better basis for comparison. I have now received an explanation. I understand that the Minister of Social Affairs is also concerned with these very important issues. I would like to ask if the Minister of Social Affairs believes that the measures put in place by the Government are sufficient to ensure a decent care for the elderly for the future in accordance with laws, regulations and administrative provisions. And finally, when will the Stortinge get presented with an evaluation of the original action plan?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e2156	I am pleased that the representative Eyegen addresses the search for a case that concerns a very large number of people, i.e. a more dignified care for the elderly. I don't think I can answer such a comprehensive and difficult question as the representative for the eye here, in one minute. I think I should limit myself to saying that I am very pleased that we have had a positive impact on our investment so far. But that's no guarantee for the future. On the contrary, we are forced to follow closely both the action plan for better care of the elderly and the action plan for better health professionals in the municipalities and the supervisory reports. We've also started a job in the department to secure their old-age pensions better than today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e2166	I will allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘It is now established that single carers lose the right to transitional support and additional child-rescue when they have fixed partners. According to the Social Services Act, it is not possible to include the income of partners in the measurement of social assistance. What is the assessment of this by the Council of State?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e2175	The social welfare schemes for single carers were introduced at a time when either married or lived alone. Sambuarforma was a little common. It was also more common for a woman to work at home. Society has changed. Today, cohabitation is very widespread and widely accepted. It also seemed more natural to adapt the social welfare schemes to actual family and life patterns. The choice of form of life should not be affected by the fact that one form gives greater rights to public benefits than the other. The purpose of the social security scheme in the national protection laws is to enable single care providers to provide themselves after a reasonable transitional period. The partner with whom to share building costs and other household expenses does not need the same amount of benefit. On this basis, people's protection laws and child's protection laws have stable coexistence conditions – i.e. that they have been in 12 of the last 18 months — with marriage. I would like to make it clear that the changes in the law of the people's rights and the child's rights do not corroborate the starting point: Sambuars do not, unlike spouses, have mutual maintenance obligations for each other. Cork a partner or a spouse also has some direct liability for the other's special child. That's what the biological parents have. The other parent, who does not have daily care for the child, is required to pay child benefits. When it comes to social services laws, this is the last security network in the welfare state. Promises include: assure all those who have resided in Norway, defenceable livelihood. Social assistance is, however, of a subsidiary nature. Individuals are initially responsible for providing their own entertainment by using all relevant means. When all current outlets are fully used, but not extended, the person who cannot rely on his/her livelihood has a claim for financial support. I would like to point out that the award and measurement of financial benefits will be made on the basis of an individual needs test based on the applicant’s economic, social and health situation. This is a different starting point from that for child welfare and transitional benefits. In measuring financial support to co-operators, it has to be assumed that co-operators do not have a mutual maintenance obligation. However, the financial benefits of a common household may be taken into account. It can also be taken into account that the seeker is actually entertained by the partner. The government is required to provide a notice of live-out equalisation in this spring, where the situation includes: single predecessors will be evaluated. the government-emergent Sambuar selection also deals with the issue. The selection goes through laws and regulations and evaluates their rights and obligations on a more general basis. It aims to present the setting during the spring. Both the message and the follow-up to the selection report allow you to record the conditions for a broader selection of single caregivers.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e2192	I would like to thank the National Council for the adult training, even though I know these laws relatively well. The answer raises many more questions than it clears. This must be a short version, because I only have one minute. I would first like to say that I think there is a disappointing answer, because it indicates that a cork looks at the problems or has thought through them. The consequences of this are that single dependants who have suffered or no income — and if they get sick while they have suffered or no income, they also do not get sick money, to deposit it — become social welfare recipients, for here there are other institutions, and the Council says that it should continue to be. The consequence for municipalities is that they can get large additional costs as a result. I don't think the Stortinget was made aware of that when the people's rights were changed and the child's rights were changed. I would like to ask again: will the Minister of Social Affairs arrange this, or will he at least continue to work to see if there is a double communication when it comes to the law?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e2203	I don't mean to learn Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt anything about an area that I know she has the background to know well, but I've given my answer based on what she's asked for. She has asked for an evaluation of these two laws, and she has received them. Otherwise, let me add that the large conversion of the social benefits to single caregivers occurred on a proposal in the welfare notice, adopted by the Stortinget without the support of the government party, and the evaluation added to 2001. But as I pointed out in my main response: I want to say that both in the Sambuar selection's setting and in the staging message of austerity in living conditions, the sole caregivers' situation will be assessed more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e2210	The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is soon to come. The President will propose that we continue the Questionnaire and complete today's overtime map. – It is considered biphasic.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e2216	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘In Fauske Municipality, a patient must spend the rest of his life in an institution site, for which he does not need, in the opinion of both Fauske Municipality and Fauske. The patient has COLS [[chronic obstructive pulmonary disease]] Does the Council of State think it right to force an otherwise healthy and quick person to stop smoking against his will?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e2225	Norwegian health policy is based on a premise of fair distribution and access to health services. In this case, it is a question of whether a specialist statement can be refused because the patient smokes. I am not familiar with all the issues relating to this matter, but I understand the question so that it is about the doctor's reluctance to recommend that the patient have access to a particular type of medical device. Without going into the specific matter, I will give the following answer: It follows from the medical law section 30 that a doctor's obligation to be careful, accurate and objective when issuing a certificate and a medical certificate. This provision shall ensure that medical statements are based on thorough examinations and are precisely designed. The professional judgement of the individual physician does not allow me, as Minister of Health, to review, but I would like to make it clear that the doctor's assessment of the contents of the medical statement must be carried out in the light of sound medical judgement. Furthermore, the medical evaluation shall be carried out in the light of factual considerations. To the extent that the patient’s conduct of life is taken into account, it must be because this is of considerable relevance to the soundness and usefulness of the treatment. There may be cases where the physician finds that the patient’s conduct of life causes a treatment patient to want to be irresponsible. Furthermore, there may be cases where the patient’s conduct of life means that treatment will not produce good results. If the patient’s conduct of life is given weight based on motives other than medical-professionals, e.g. because, in principle, the doctor considers that persons who smoke are not entitled to the same treatment as others, there will be extraneous considerations in relation to the decision to make by the doctor. Such considerations he has no opportunity to take. I am asking for an understanding that I cannot comment on the circumstances of the specific matter referred to here, but I am referring to the fact that the county board in Nordland has the matter for a concrete assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e2244	I thank you for your answer. In my view, it is worrying that an individual has to spend Christmas at an institution because of the principlerism of the public. The rejection has given the following reason why the patient cannot use oxygen in his own home: there is a medical-professional consensus on this, based on the fact that the smokers do not get full use of O2 absorption. Furthermore, the fire protection considerations mentioned are not justified. As far as the medical profession is concerned, the Minister of Health must agree that the intake of oxygen will be the same whether he gets it at home or at an institution. He smokes both places, and the absorption of oxygen does not depend on where he gets it. As far as the fire risk is concerned, oxygen is not known to burn. In addition, the head of care in the municipality of Fauske writes: ‘The patient is clear and orientated. As in the past, he has good knowledge of gas and fire hazards.’ Although there is a medical consensus on something, does not the patient require an individual assessment? If so, will the Minister of Health ensure that this patient receives such an assessment, based on the situation of this patient?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e2258	I want to maintain that Storting's pulpit is not the place to assess a concrete diagnosis or prescribe treatment for a single patient. Equally fully, I believe it is justified that the county doctor has now dealt with the matter and will make a concrete assessment of it in relation to the principles that I presented in my first answer. I consider that to be a reassuring handling of the matter as it stands.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e2266	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The national fire section of the Haukeland Hospital in Bergen has serious operational problems and is threatened with closure. What can and will the Council of State do with this serious problem?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e2275	During 1998, national health surveillance carried out an evaluation of national high-specialised functions, including the national function of advanced fire-injury treatment. The report from Haukeland Hospital describes a significant clinical activity that is gradually well established. In addition to clinical activities, a large national fire damage course is also held each year. Haukeland Hospital has maintained its national function in a good way. During 1998, manning difficulties have occurred in the fire damage section of Haukeland Hospital. Both the hospital and the county council have informed about this, most recently in the press release of 18 January this year and in notes of the same date to the county committee in Hordaland. The hospital reports that there is a major shortage of specialist nurses and, at the same time, major problems with new recruiting. About half of the special care positions in the fire damage section – 21 posts – are currently available. In 1998, a total of 16 patients with burns were treated in hospitals in Sweden and Denmark. Last year, the burn section in Haukeland treated 41 patients, while the average over the past five years has been 66 patients per year. As a result, capacity was significantly reduced in parts of 1998. However, this is also due to the fact that the department was closed for about two months due to infection problems. Haukeland Hospital also has general difficulties in recruiting adequate specialised nurses to other departments. The hospital has therefore increased the internal training of specialist nurses by 40 pst. In addition, a number of recruitment measures aimed at professionals in Sweden, Finland and Germany are being implemented. The hospital informs us that this work will continue, while the hospital is now actively working to make more flexible use of the total specialised nursing capacity. It has been agreed to extensive Scandinavian cooperation on patients with serious fire damage. This cooperation allowed 16 patients to be transferred to Denmark and Sweden in 1998. Haukeland also receives patients from other countries, among others. Two Swedish young people were moved there after the big fire in Gothenburg last November. It takes time to build up to a high international level a special and demanding function as a fire damage section. Experience from the construction period of the section of fire damage almost 15 years ago shows this. With the problems described above, one must expect that it will take some time before the situation is fully satisfactory again. However, it will take a lot longer to build up this country function in another Norwegian hospital. Therefore, during the current build-up period, it will be necessary to also use the capacity of fire damage departments in other countries. In this situation, both the Haukeland Hospital and the Hordaland County Municipality have indicated that they wish to be able to fully perform this national function as soon as possible, and that they will ensure that this happens. Over the whole of 1998, the supervisory authorities, i.e. The county doctor in Hordaland and the State Health Authority have been briefed on developments and have had ongoing contact with the hospital owner. This contact goes on. The county doctor in Hordaland will actively follow developments in the future. I see it as one on the hospital owner's side does what you can to secure the crew. Therefore, the situation does not imply any initiative of its own to change the national function of the fire damage section in Haukeland, but a continued vigilant follow-up by the supervisory authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e2290	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer, and I am pleased that you do not consider moving the fire section from Haukeland Hospital. The national fire section of the Haukeland Hospital is of very high professional standard and has gained international fame for its treatment facilities. There is therefore no need to eliminate a disaster about this treatment provision now, if necessary, due to a lack of health professionals. I have a certain understanding that nurses at this department are getting tired, because it is both physically and mentally quite stressful to associate with these burned patients, who are often seriously deranged from the physical point of view. As this is a national treatment provision, I assume that the Minister of Health is doing what is possible, and I understand that the Minister of Health is doing this by following it quite closely. My follow-up question concerns something that was not affected by the Minister of Health: if there were to be a lack of resources for the Haukeland Hospital fire department, would the department be helpful in this way to bring in nurses, possibly from abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e2299	It is my opinion that the hospital owner is dealing with the situation with the available instruments. The case has not been presented to me in such a way that it is necessary to introduce new instruments. It is primarily an internal education that is now being brought up to a large extent, an intensified external recruitment, while maintaining its function through cooperation with other hospitals. However, the follow-up by supervisory authorities may reveal the need for action by national authorities. They will of course be evaluated if we get such messages.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e2307	Once again, I will be allowed to ask the Minister of Health a question: ‘In a letter dated 13 January 1999 to the Minister for Health of the Association for the Control of Cerebral Parese in Norway, the rent ratio on the Berg farm is set at 31 March 1999. The reason for the termination is the failure of the building stock, and the Rikshospitalet did not initiate a new lease with the association. Does the Rikshospital no longer need Berg farm, and if not, what operational problems will the Rikshospital get when the building mass on Berg farm cannot be used after 31 March 1999?’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e2316	The conclusion of an agreement between the Cerebral Parese Association and the State v/ Ministry of Social Affairs and Health on the use of Berg Gård has been on the 1996 agenda. The State of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Rikshospitalet made contact for negotiations in July 1997. A new initiative was launched in March 1998. The first negotiating meeting was held on 27 August 1998. The state has invested approx. Ten million. kr in the property on Berg Gård. In addition, the annual maintenance costs have been around One and a half million. kr. The Rikshospital claims that they per year. Today there is a need for the premises on Berg Gård. The new National Hospital, the Children's Department, at Gaustad today has no capacity to accept the activity at Berg Gård. The future organisation of the offer to the patient group at Berg Gård is to be assessed in the ministry. An exodus from Berg Gård per. 31 March 1999 will have an impact on the patient group currently on the scene. I have therefore taken the initiative to call a meeting with the Cerebral Parese Association next week.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e2327	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer, and I will praise the Minister of Health for every good practice with rapid reactions. I appreciate that. It is not always that the reactions meet my wishes, but nevertheless it is positive that a health minister responds as quickly as he has done in this case. The CP Association has, in its time, gone ahead and shown its way in offering to the group of patients they represent. It is totally unacceptable, in my opinion, that the state does not take its responsibility seriously and makes any more effort to arrive at an arrangement with the CP association in terms of the rental conditions at Berg Gård. I am pleased to note that this will be done on the initiative of the Minister of Health the next week, and I hope that a solution will be found, so that both the association and the Rikshospitalet can be satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e2337	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment: ‘Norwegian predatory management makes predatory stock grow freely, and only in exceptional cases breeding permits are granted. Farmers who have animals on the outback have huge losses that are only partially covered by the state. The State's animal health surveillance is now in the process of prohibiting the set-aside next summer. It shows that the coexistence between sheep and predators is impossible, which our ancestors took the consequence of. What measures are envisaged to prevent this from leading to depopulation of district Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e2346	Then the council has a golden opportunity to compete in noise volume with what's going on outside of Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e2349	To the extent that she has to, she must also be able to do so. The objectives and principles of the management of the large predators have been addressed and clarified by the Storting. I show you, among other things: to the 1997 report on predatory wildlife and its treatment by Stortingen. The aim is to ensure viable populations of all four major predatory species in Norway. At the same time, active farming shall be ensured with the possibility of exploiting grazing resources in sheep and clean pastures. The government is now following up its decisions in a number of areas. I emphasise that administrative measures are developed and implemented in close cooperation with municipalities and other stakeholders. The stock situation is different for the four large wild game species. Gaupe and youv have a stock situation that provides a basis for using stock-regulating instruments as regular hunting and licensing. On gaupe, which has so far been the species that causes the most damage to grazing animals, it was opened for hunting in most places in the country in 1998. 118 animals were killed, which is a record high target in this century. For you, licensing has been opened throughout the country, except for the core area of South Norway. Due to different population status, the use of such instruments has not yet been relevant for bears and wolves. In order to limit conflicts between sheep and predatory game, funds have been allocated to measures such as the transfer of sheep to other pastures, the previous lowering of sheep and the switch from sheep to milk production. Experience has shown that the objectives of the management of wild game require coordinated efforts by agricultural and environmental protection authorities. However, the starting point for the measures currently being implemented is that predators must be managed by land-suspensioning. This implies that the demarcation must be reserved for buffalo and domestic animals in large parts of the country, while predators must have more stringent protection in other areas. The Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture are now evaluating the effects of measures and instruments to date. Stock records are also in progress to provide a basis for future management actions. In the light of the ongoing evaluation, I, together with the Minister of Agriculture and in close cooperation with stakeholders, will seek solutions that minimise the damage to the buff and tamrein industries.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e2366	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It's an old saying that says something like that cow starved while the grass grows. As you debate and discuss and resonate, both the reindeer industry and the farmers, who have to give up their use, and the relocation is a fact. St.meld. No 35 for 1996-97, which was adopted in 1997, should have been sent back and discussed again. Then you have to ask questions if it is not soon time for the state to take responsibility for their predators and start taking care of them. Moving sheep is no good, and moving the prey is no good. The predators are moving. The State violates the Basic Law § 105 on ownership, and it undermines the ancient natural right to defend life and property. It is not a good thing for the state, nor for Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e2375	There are not many times I have been asked about predator management in the questionnaire. It's no wonder that the barge message tells us to combine two seemingly conflicting considerations. On the one hand, we're going to use the land resources for grazing for both domestic and sheep. We know that's one of the most environmentally friendly meat productions we can have. On the other hand, we are obliged, and will take responsibility, to have viable populations of the four largest predatory species also in Norway. That means that we have conflicts between predators and sheep farming and reindeer farming in several places in the country. What has been important on the part of the Government is to try to reduce conflicts as far as it can. We have granted conditional breeding permits for pests, we have now had consultation, and are being dealt with in Stortinget, proposals on the statutory right to compensation, and we have opened up a historic big gloupe hunt this year that went on. This, together with the use of other prevention tools, is what we can do to reduce the conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e2385	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘The State operating aid of NOK 175 per year. the car that car collection points receive for scrapping has been at rest for almost 20 years. At the same time, work has become more extensive. This has led to dissatisfaction among industry members. How will the Council of State contribute to the continuation of this important environmental work?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e2394	The collection system for car wrecks and track-laying vehicles shall be self-financing, i.e. income and expenditure shall balance over time. The income is derived from the property tax on the first registered vehicle and from the income from the sale of the steel in the wrecks. In addition to the payment of the parcel, as well as the support for the press and transport, operating aid of NOK 175 per person is granted. wreck delivered to the approved collection site. The objective of the operating aid is to provide sufficient incentives to maintain a nationwide collection system and to ensure that environmentally hazardous substances are addressed. The operating aid is not intended to constitute a profit for car collectors. It is not correct, as claimed by the representative Bredvold, that the operating aid has been on site for almost 20 years. When the operating aid was introduced in 1978, it was NOK 63. The aid has subsequently been raised six times, to the current level of NOK 175. Today, state pollution control is responsible for the administration and control of the car wreck system. The Ministry of the Environment has the top responsibility for this system and, in the context of the annual budgets, makes an overall assessment of the financial framework conditions for the car wreck system, including operating aid. I am aware of the fact that the Association of Norway’s BIP Collections has sent a letter to the State’s pollution control authority on the framework conditions for car collectors, including: the level of the operating aid is raised. The State pollution control body shall meet with this association at the end of this week to discuss this. I would like to await the assessment of the case by the State pollution authority. There is no doubt that I cannot now explain the budgetary implications for the car wreck system. In any case, it is obvious that in the future, the car wreck system will continue to be designed in such a way as to ensure the environmentally sound treatment of this important waste category.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e2407	I thank the Council of State for the answer and am particularly pleased that there will be a meeting with the Association of Norway’s National Library Collection to discuss, as I understand it, among other things. economic and practical in the event of the receipt of a car wreck. It is, as I understand it, no political disagreement that old car wrecks represent an environmental problem that we have to solve. It must therefore be economic to accept this problem waste. At present, according to the NBF, performance is rather poor, while the workload has increased. There is also a rather uncertain industry in predicting what the future will bring. We saw that in 1996, when the wreckage increased considerably, and the number of cars surrendered increased by 320 pst, according to NBF's figure, while this is now at a low level. I can otherwise mention that in Sweden the carmakers get 500 kroner to do the same job, while in Denmark there are 550 kroner plus VAT per person. Car. I thank you again for the answer, and will wait anxiously for the result of the announced meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e2420	Like the representative, Mr Bredvold, I would like to state that there is broad support for the maintenance of the scheme and that it helps us to deal with something that would otherwise be a serious environmental problem. The Econ Centre for Economic Analysis has carried out a review to look at how the scheme works, and they say in their report that it works mainly well and according to the assumptions, both economically and for the environment. At the same time, they suggest that the level of operating aid should be assessed, and this assessment will, of course, also be included when the SFT is to hold this meeting. Let me also mention that we work internationally to have the opportunity to maintain this scheme in the future. The EU seems to be adding up to a different system, and we are now working to maintain, through the EEA, a system that we believe works very well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e2429	Case No. 1, the question mark, is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-27.ana.ud845e2438	There is no record.
