ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-22.ana.ud1312e33	The representatives Hill-Marta Solberg and Lars Gunnar Lie, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. Three permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on the Welfare Permit of the Representative Anneliese Dørum from Monday 22 March onwards and until further notice from the Group of the Progressive Party on the Permit of the Representative Fridtjof Frank Gundersen from 22 March to 24 March to take part in the meeting of the Western European Union Parliamentary Assembly in Copenhagen from the Group of the Socialist Left on the welfare leave of Mr Ågot Valle on 22 and 23 March On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Rikke Lind and André Kukkestad For the province of Hordaland: Eirik Langeland Mountain
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-22.ana.ud1312e83	Rikke Lind, André Kvakkestad and Eirik Langeland Mountain are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-22.ana.ud1312e100	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs, Culture and the Administration, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the working party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-22.ana.ud1312e107	It's been focusing heavily on prices and price developments lately. There have also been studies that have focused only on part of the value chain. Therefore, there is a need to monitor and monitor the food market in the future. There is also a broad consensus on the need for such studies as one in the proposed document asks for. In the case of agricultural policy issues raised, among others: in relation to market regulation, it would be right to wait for the warning of agricultural policy. Here you will be able to capture both targets and instruments in a broader context. With this in mind, Minister of Agriculture Kåre Gjønes has recently launched a pilot project to identify price levels and price formation for Norwegian food, together with representatives from several departments, consumer organisations, grocery stores, food industries and primary industries. In the light of this work now under way, the majority of the Committee believes that it will take good care of the proposal in the document. Therefore, it won't be right now to start a work parallel to this. It appears that the food budget in Norwegian families is now 12-13 pst. of total expenditure on consumption, against approx. 40 pst. of 1958. For comparison, we use over 20 pst. on travel and transport. Of the 16 countries we compare with when it comes to food prices, there's only one country with higher food prices than Norway, that's Denmark. Most countries have from 0 to 12 pst. food flavourings. With our previous VAT on food, we took a sixth place and without VAT, a fourth place of these 16 countries on the list. This, in turn, may be much better than most people had thought in advance. Until now, we have had a clear turnover here in the country of food. However, we are aware that this can change rapidly if some of the large food chains move to purchase fresh food from abroad. We can get a strong change in the purchase pattern for the groceries we buy in the store. The liberalisation of legislation, such as the veterinary agreement and changes in customs duties, may lead to a rapid increase in imports. It is therefore important to establish a policy that protects us from the level of infection present in the food chain in different EU countries. This is our responsibility. Consumers in Norway are not simply concerned about getting cheap food. They will also have clean food, free of infection and additives of various kinds. Therefore, consumers also care whether the major players in the grocery market take their goods away. It is important that the Norwegian consumer is given knowledge of what is really happening in the food sector and that all of the results of the conversions are made visible. Then I think about everything from what is paid to the wholesaler and the producer, to where the groceries were purchased. Otherwise it looks like it's the big food chains that are winners in today's media debate. In addition, they usually want to ask state-owned children's owners. They have faith in freedom of choice, market power and free competition. But that's not always what consumers are best at. Today's grocery store is dominated by four chains. Most of the products from the 80,000 farmers in the country are translated here. 40000 added to the food industry and transport are also included in this value chain and by 15 000 added to the shops. All Nordics are customers through these four chains, and it says itself that they are an important power factor in society. The 1996 Fafo Report on Anti-Industrial Power shall state: ‘There is little doubt that there have been marked changes in power conditions in favour of the chains. Whether consumers have gained or lost power is more questionable.» These are some of the things that I expect will be discussed in the work that has now been started. This has also been called for here in Stortinget in 1996. At that time the proposal was defeated, when it was seen that the Competition Authority is doing a good job. Both the trade organisations and the Confederation have long called for such a price follow-up. It was therefore clear that no one is satisfied with the facts about the price evolution of food in the whole chain from land to table. Now you need a proper set-up of a wide-ranging community that hasn't drawn its conclusions in advance. And we're looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-22.ana.ud1312e142	It is important that the investigations to be carried out around the food chain are as quality as ensured by independent interests as far as possible. There are already several investigations that highlight the setting of prices for Norwegian food products without their independence from the producer level being adequately elucidated. Operators in the food industry are, to a large extent, both purchasers of and suppliers of premiscuous food for these investigations. Many ask questions about interconnection and an objective assessment of the problem The new large-scale communication on agricultural policy must therefore show a high degree of neutrality with regard to agricultural price policy, precisely in order to provide confidence to consumers in relation to consumer and price policy and competition. The Minister of Agriculture has signalled a big message about agricultural policy in 1999. It is therefore not appropriate to propose a public sample to assess prices in the food industry now. The government has already focused on this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-22.ana.ud1312e149	Food prices are something we all have an interest in as this takes a relatively large part of a person's or family's overall budget. In addition, food prices are also helping to shape the settlement, especially along our borders. I am thinking in particular of the border trade we get because of high food prices here in Norway compared to, for example, in Sweden. In 1998, the Nordics were left with approx. $7 billion in Sweden. In addition, we do a lot on our trips to Denmark and Finland, together for approx. One billion kroner. This contributes to the closure of many of our grocery stores along the border due to very low trade, and this in turn can lead to increased dislocation as the service offer decreases and, not least, job losses. When you know that 1 million. average food sales kr corresponds to approx. one job, this is very alarming. In addition, there are other ring effects. Due to the relatively high food prices in Norway, we also see an increasing trend in food smuggling towards Norway, as profits are also increasing in this area. This also leads to a reduction in the need for Norwegian food, which in turn leads to fewer agricultural jobs, more delocalisation and a low level of food production in Norway in a crisis situation. This together will bring Norway back many years in terms of self-sufficiency. Other ring-effects of the Nordic food trade abroad are, of course, the fact that other goods and services are also traded when you are there. This could in the long run reduce the overall service provision that Norway can offer to its citizens. Otherwise, one must be allowed to see the tragic in that the Norwegians travel to, for example. Denmark and Sweden and purchase cheap ribs, for NOK 19.90 per person kg versus approx. double price in Norway, when we know that over 6000 tonnes of Norwegian pigmeat were dumped abroad for approx. 10 kroner per year. kg to maintain a high price in Norway. This becomes extra bad when we find the product description and the place of manufacture of the goods written in Norwegian. The intent of this document No. The 8th proposal by the representatives of the Progress Party, Øystein Hedstrom and Terje Knudsen, is to have the entire value chain in the food market explored in order to get an overview of the price conditions and opportunities for more affordable food. This must be something that we can all agree on, and the whole committee also sees the need for such a type of investigation as the proposal is. The party notes that the Minister of Agriculture has now launched a pre-project to identify the price level and price formation of Norwegian food. This is positive, and let's hope that it gets all the sides of the case. Such studies have also been carried out in the past, but in the view of the Advance Party, they have not taken into account the entire value chain in the food market. The investigation must reach, inter alia: why Norwegian agricultural products are generally more expensive in Norway than in Norway, for example. in Sweden, which parts of the value chain may be more expensive in us than in other countries, how competitive the different products are, etc. The party looks with great interest and excitement to what will come out of these new studies. We should not leave Rimi alone to make Norway cheaper. Until that's the case, it's too important.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-22.ana.ud1312e170	The relatively high price level of Norwegian food is a problem both for the trade industry in border regions and for Norwegian households. For most, it is difficult to understand that food production in Norway should be so much more expensive than the corresponding production in, for example, Norway. Sweden. Competitively regulating the price of imported agricultural products is not only an irritating factor for Norwegian consumers – it is helpful for Norwegian families to use too little fruit and green in the daily household, with the unfortunate consequences for public health. It is commendable that an initiative has now been taken by the Ministry to investigate price formation in the food chain. And it's good that you also add up to get a comparison basis from other countries. The right assumes that this comparison with other countries is sufficiently thorough to make it clear which links from land to table competition is failing or may be lacking in Norway compared to other countries. This is essential for us to get a full picture of how the price level here in Norway is getting so high. However, the right is somewhat skeptical that the Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for this investigation. There is something about the farmer's horse and the farmer's oats that suggests that a more neutral body should be responsible for the final product of the investigation. Therefore, the right considers that responsibility for the project should be transferred from the Ministry of Agriculture to the Competition Authority. It would give the investigation project greater credibility. In addition, we look forward to the announcement from the Government of agriculture and assume that the outcome of the ongoing investigation is embedded in the agricultural notification.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-22.ana.ud1312e183	There are probably farmers in the city, was one of the slogans in the EU fight in 1994. Since then, the number of farmers in the city has increased, food producers have become fewer and fewer and have ceased to use more and more. As I understand the proposers, these developments are positive, because they give the consumer cheaper goods. If the only policy objective in this area is lower, I am afraid that the production of food can be small in this country – and then the number of farmers in the city will increase dramatically. It would be an exaggeration to blame this development on Hedstrom and his party alone. There is, of course, a responsibility for the majority here – not least those who are in charge of an EU policy of adaptation and who want the power of money to be more influential than the power of the people. In this context, the banana war between the EU and the WTO is interesting and clarifying to those who think that only Adam Smith's invisible hand is to be found. Now, then, the EU and eventually Norway will certainly also have to get really cheap and industrially produced meat from Uncle Sam. The problem is that for it to be really cheap, it's been brittle with hormone, so it can grow faster and cost less to produce. This example illustrates what we're going in the low-price direction is the only value for the political objectives we have. It is the food producer, the farmer, who seems to be the main problem for the proposers, although they also raise some important issues. It is a major problem for many in the whole country – not just on the border – that the payroll requirements of four one-way chains have removed the local store. But is it just a paycheck? When the newspaper last Friday could tell that a chain owner lit NOK 20,405 an hour every day in 1998 at the grocery store, we would rather talk about a greed problem. And here's a problem for the proposers. It is simply not relevant for them to support SV in getting a tax system that can bring more back to the community, money that the community could spend on, for example. to reduce the food tax and thereby bring down the price. But for the Progress Party, people of the nations are sacred. The proposers initially wanted to use a few million people to investigate what has been investigated before and with which the Minister of Agriculture has started a work. The proposal is therefore completely unnecessary if it did not have our other motives that were the driving force. SV is therefore satisfied with the conclusion of the majority in the Committee, and looks forward to a big message with visions of an agricultural policy that has more objectives than a low price. You may know the price of everything, but not the value of anything.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-22.ana.ud1312e199	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-22.ana.ud1312e202	I am pleased that a majority in the handling committee sees the need to examine all stages of the food chain in order to obtain, if possible, fairer food. But Langeland draws comparisons that are far beyond what makes sense. It is clear that food has to be compared with food in other countries, based on the same quality and purity. That's where the comparison has to go, you can't draw in extreme and outraged relationships. The party notes that Norwegian food is too expensive and risks being uncompetitive. Therefore, we believe that ‘price cuttism’ is absolutely necessary by making production more rational and efficient. The document we are discussing is intended as part of an absolutely necessary effort to provide understanding and knowledge of the formation of prices for agricultural products, the evolution from land to table, and the stages and circumstances in which we stand apart from other countries. Once the Minister of Agriculture has started a project that goes in the same street as the proposals of the Advance Party, it is all right. But it is in its place to stress that the most important thing must not be excluded, namely that the work is done widely enough, and that the result is very credible. It can then serve as a basis for the formation of opinion and decisions in this Chamber. Many are concerned because Norwegian agriculture is in the process of weakening its competitiveness. In this respect, I would like to remind you that the European Union is putting its agricultural reform in place these days. This means that the prices of meat, butter, cheese and other agricultural products will be reduced, for example: in Sweden, with 10-15 pst. the next few years. And many Norwegian consumers are always protesting against the Norwegian high-price policy today by choosing Sweden, where they act like pigs. Last year we experienced a new peak year for the border trade leakage to Sweden by nearly 7 billion kroner, of which 40 pst. I'm talking about groceries. Now food and pole prices will be further reduced by ‘sweet brother’. We will certainly experience an accelerated borderline leakage with similar losses of jobs and income on the Norwegian side, with new problems for farmers by having to get rid of Norwegian overproduction. In the forthcoming WTO round, Norway will be faced with strong demands for lower customs duties on agricultural products and, in the most extreme cases, customs duties can be halved. Rimi-Hagen & co. will not fail to absorb the food from outside that is cheaper, and in this situation agriculture will clearly need to convert. Therefore, I hope the investigation initiated by the Government will provide the necessary overview of the price developments for food and the possibility of lower prices. The size must have the necessary decision-making basis to provide the right framework conditions for agriculture so that the industry can rationalise, streamline and lower prices in order to survive further in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-22.ana.ud1312e215	The President is in doubt, but understands that it might be more appropriate to use the words ‘Sweden’ and ‘Swedish citizens’ instead of the term just used by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-22.ana.ud1312e218	The background to this Document 8 proposal is to highlight all the claims made by the media for a long time, that there are some in the value chain for food that is too well paid. Despite this, there are a few ECON and Fafo reports showing that the daily food industry has been through a process of rationalisation and conversion that has been positive for consumers, as there has been a development of strong competition between operators in the retail trade. However, it is worth noting that both reports point out that this competition has not been present in agricultural production and on the supplier side. The surveys so far have focused only on part of the value chain, on the assignment of some parts of the industry. This seems to have contributed to an inexhaustible debate on Norwegian food prices. Therefore, a wide-ranging government-designated sample that thoroughly studies the entire value chain will have significant credibility. The key questions in this context are: Why are Norwegian agricultural products so expensive? And how does the price divide into the different parts of the value chain? Furthermore, it is not uninteresting how competitive the different products are compared, for example, with other products. in other European countries. A scheme aimed at following a larger number of Norwegian-produced goods from farmers to consumers will provide some indisputable facts. The proposers will not conceal the fact that the wish to have the above mentioned conditions was speeding up when it became known, as the representative of Bredvold had in mind, that 6000 tonnes of pigmeat was dumped abroad for 10 kroner per year. last year to maintain a high price in Norway. We believe that this type of surplus export of Norwegian raw materials at dumped prices is not suitable to give the Norwegian agricultural industry confidence in the market. The proponents of the Progress Party are aware that the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Gjønnes, has recently launched a pre-project to identify price levels and price formation with consumer organisations, the retail trade, the food industry, primary industries and several departments. This is all right, even if, according to its Document No, the proposers. 8-proposals would have preferred a wide-ranging government-designated sample.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-22.ana.ud1312e230	Just a few brief comments from my side. It's used terms like expensive food and cheap food. It might be right here to point out that what we're looking for is the correct price based on the assumptions that have been made. It has been pointed out that it is important that there is confidence in the job that is being done by those who are now doing this work. It is the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research, the Statistical Central Agency and the ECON that carry out the project and with a reference group from those involved from the soil to the table-chain. From this I have the confidence in the work that is now being done, that it will create the confidence that Stortinget is asking for. A data collection will also be carried out in the project among shops in Sweden and in the border lines of Denmark and Norway — which are probably typical border points — among others. to see whether the border trade is a market for dumped products or that prices are differentiated. It is well known that even in these border lines, the trade that is taking place there, it may be the type of dumping that is being discussed and be an attractive market. With regard to the issue of dumping of Norwegian production to a market outside the borders of the country, it is not strange. This is done in all countries where there is surplus production, which is then adapted to the prices of the world market. So it's wrong to create a picture that this is strange. This is happening from all countries. I hope that the work that has been started and which I intend to return to the outcome of the proposal on agricultural production will be part of and provide useful information in relation to the questions raised in Document No. The 8th proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-22.ana.ud1312e241	The political majority in this Chamber have expressed their desire for a more rational and efficient Norwegian agricultural production, and I suppose, at least, it is the intention of the Progress Party that things are happening internationally: the EU is putting its agricultural reform in place, we are gradually getting lower rates of customs – whether we like it or not – in relation to the WTO, which means that we are getting progressive towards greater competition exposure internally in Norway, and it will strengthen the situation of farmers, so that the transition does not become too great when exposed to international competition in the long term. In connection with Gunhild Eyerings St.prp. No 8 for 1992-93, Developed Agriculture, it was a majority that wanted to move towards more efficient and rational agricultural production with less regulation, and greater use of market signals should be given weight. The size has also treated Ot.prp. No 5 for 1996-97 on a new organisation of the market in milk, where the majority of the political groups had a level playing field in the dairy sector. One element of this is just getting fairer food prices. Prices in the milk sector have also fallen after some degree of competition. Whether this is what the Council of State calls the ‘real price’ is not known, but to me it is at least a positive development. But not everything goes in the right direction as the population wants. We got a decision from the Sales Council on Friday that I would call directly alarming and consumer hostile. A proposal by the director of the Bondelag Kirsten Indjørd Værdal, who was supported by the cooperative representative of the Sales Council, will limit Tine's universal obligation to private dairies. This severely limits competition at the processing stage in the dairy sector, and that means the hook on the door for new dairies of some size outside the Dairy Cooperation. The decisions of the Council of Commerce impose strong restrictions on competition and will be unique in Europe. What's happening now is that dairy farmers are doing a farm service, because farmers will benefit from increased internal competition in order to survive longer in the future, as I have said. I have a question for the Council of State: Synnove Find has now decided to appeal against the decision of the Council of Turnover of the Ministry. If a majority in this Chamber signals that they wish to continue the market organization for milk with the system of universality imposed on Tine, as at present, will this view be respected by the Ministry?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-22.ana.ud1312e254	I was a little in doubt if I should answer, but I expect that the question was asked to the Minister for Agriculture. I would just like to say briefly that, of course, the Council of State cannot go into the consideration of the decision taken by the Council of Turnover, if there were to be an appeal as ports in the department. We'll deal with that question when such an appeal might be in the department.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-22.ana.ud1312e259	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2425]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-22.ana.ud1312e275	This interpellence affects the medical distribution in Norway and trends related to it over the 1990s. I want to pay particular attention to the recruitment difficulties now seen in the primary health service, but to some extent the differences in recruitment at the specialist level will also be affected. With regard to the structure of the Norwegian health system, there are many areas in which the quality is to be demonstrated. From the Law on Community Health came in 1984 and forward towards 1990, there was good recruitment for primary health care medical positions. Many small municipalities also experienced stable medical coverage, with good recruitment for job vacancies. Although that picture has been partially dramatically altered in the 1990s, it is important, in my view, to see the quality of the structure created by the Law on Municipal Health. It is also important to stress that various studies have shown that local hospitals have a significant relief function for the larger hospital units, and in many cases the effectiveness of small hospitals is as high as that of the large hospital units. It will be both an unrealistic and inappropriate objective to seek to change the health system back to a previous structure. Nevertheless, the objective of providing primary health services as a basis for health care needs to be pursued and continued. In its extension, it will also be important to maintain and further develop a specialist structure that is not becoming more centralised, but is still able to spread specialists to the various health regions and counties according to the needs of specialist services in the population. I have the following desire to point to some developments over the last decade. From 1995 to 1998, there were 720 new doctors in Norway from the University of Tromsø. In the same period, there were 30 fewer doctors in North Norway. In Finnmark, only 11 out of 19 municipalities had permanently appointed municipal doctors in the last six months in 1997, and 38 pst. of the posts in municipal health services were without a permanent post holder. The proportion of doctors in North Norway was 10.3 p.m. in 1981, and the number increased to 11.3 p.m. in 1995. Since then, the proportion has fallen dramatically in a short time, reaching only 9.7 pst in 1998. From 1995 to 1998, the number of occupational doctors in health regions 1 and 2 increased by 12.4 pst. The increase in health regions 3 and 4 was each of approx. 9 pst., while in health region 5 it decreased by 0.4 pst. But the phenomenon described here is not exactly a North Norway phenomenon. In one of the hospitals in Sogn and Fjordane, six out of 21 posts were unoccupied in October 1998. In one of the municipalities in the same county, all five municipal medical positions were occupied by foreign short-term vicars, after having had a stable addition in all the positions a few years before. During the visit of the Social Committee to the various counties, we also heard about recruitment difficulties in the counties such as Hedmark and Oppland, and even at the Central Hospital in Akershus, it was expressed that it may be difficult to attract specialists from the Oslo hospitals or from private specialist clinics. In the case of primary health services, there are also major difficulties in achieving an appropriate and coordinated organisation in the central east region, not least conditional on the expectations of the population that diagnostics and treatment should take place at a more specialised level than in general practice. A phenomenon that has been very common in recent years is that the proportion of foreign doctors has been increasing. Of a total of 14,394 play in Norway per year. On 1 September 1998, 1538, or 10.7 p.m., had foreign citizenship. The proportion in 1990 is estimated from Norwegian Medical Association figures to be 2 p.m. and in 1993 to 3 p.m. In the light of what has been perceived as a lack of a body, it may immediately seem positive that you have managed to recruit foreign doctors. The largest proportion is from Nordic countries, with 59 pst., while Germany is represented by about 59 pst. 14 pst. by the foreign doctors. However, language problems and different cultural and educational backgrounds may cause a very high proportion of foreign doctors — especially from non-Nordic countries — to change the medical supply to the population because the doctor does not have roots or relations with the population to be served. The doctor may also lack basic knowledge of Norwegian law in key areas such as social medicine and social medicine, and patients may have difficulty being understood, or to understand the doctor, if the doctor lacks the necessary language skills. It is therefore of interest to look at the geographical distribution of foreign doctors coming to Norway. The lowest relative share is found in East Agder and West Agder, Vestfold, Oslo and Akershus with approx. 7 pst. By comparison, the proportion of foreign doctors in Finnmark is now 25 p.p., in Sogn and Fjordane 24 p.p., while in North Trondelag, Hedmark and Nordland it is between 16 and 17 p.p. It may seem that the proportion of foreign doctors is a marker for the problems of recruiting doctors, with the highest proportion of foreign doctors where the recruitment difficulties are greatest. The efforts of these doctors should be appreciated, but when some municipalities no longer manage to recruit doctors with Norwegian backgrounds, there is at the same time a strong alarm signal related to the structure of health services, as some of the stability and continuity of primary health services disappears. There is reason to point out, in particular, two phenomena that are valid in relation to the distribution of medicinal products. One is that there has been a general improvement in the recruitment of hospitals at the expense of primary health services since an improvement in pay conditions for hospital doctors a few years ago. The lack of recruitment to primary health services seems to have been self-enhancing by increasing the pressure on the remaining doctors. Some of them have chosen to enter the hospital sector instead, while some have deliberately applied for larger, central places with a stable primary health service, where working conditions have been more orderly. In addition, the geographical distribution of doctors shows an increasing degree of centralisation, away from typical districts and towards larger population centres, especially in the central eastern region. The consequence of the deficiencies of primary health services may be that an increasing proportion of medical diagnosis and treatment is carried out at an unnecessarily high level of treatment, further away from the home of users and with increased resource use as a consequence. An example of this may be the proportion of immediate relief interventions in the various hospital units. On the basis of a report to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health written by Eva Holmsen in 1996, the proportion of immediate hospitalisations was 48 pst. in 1988, while the corresponding proportion in 1995 was 62pst. In the case of home medical departments, this proportion is now between 70 and 90 pst. by all submissions. The increase in hospitalisations from 1991 to 1996 was 8 p.m., but since the immediate help rate increased by 16 p.m. in the same period, there was, in reality, a decrease in planned contributions from 1991 to 1996. There is reason to believe that a well-functioning primary health service will relieve the number of immediate relief interventions by a greater proportion of the treatment then taking place in the home municipalities. Thus, there is no contrast between measures that would be recruitment and stabilising for primary health services and improved and more efficient use of resources in hospitals. On the contrary, there is reason to believe that hospitals could make much better use of their activities by ensuring stable conditions in primary health care. Identifying instruments that will result in improved medical distribution in the short term and, in particular, improved recruitment to primary health services is not easy. It appears important to identify the causes of its successively biased distribution, so that actions that can be undertaken are targeted. SV would therefore believe that it would be in the interest of all parties if the Government initiated such a screening, which also includes an assessment of instruments for improved medical distribution. An instrument that could be expected to improve medical recruitment in the short term is an extension of the rotational services of doctors in the districts from half a year to one year. If it is considered that primary health services should form the basis for medical care, there is a manifest imbalance between the whole year in which the tour operators are in the hospital and the half year in which they are in the district. As well as the medical study itself, which is largely hospitalized, as the post-graduate duty service helps to focus on specialised hospital medicine at the expense of basic general medicine. The proposal that is being promoted here today seeks to help compensate for this difference. By paying particular attention to district psychiatry as a share of the extended district psychiatry service, the psychiatry escalation plan is also being met, with special emphasis being placed on district psychiatry. In the light of what has been said here, I would like to address the two proposals that SV has made in connection with the interpellation today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-22.ana.ud1312e333	Olav Gunnar Ballo has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-22.ana.ud1312e336	Norway is among the five countries in the world with the highest medical density compared to the population. Despite increased access to doctors in recent years, we have a high number of vacancies in both primary and specialised health services, on which the interpellant was involved. Per. On 31 December 1998 it was about the same. 900 vacancies, divided into 200 in municipal health services and 700 in specialist health services. The problem of community health services is particularly evident in district municipalities. A survey shows that municipalities in Northern Ireland with less than 4000 inhabitants had more than 1/3 of the fixed medical positions unaccompanied. The use of 10-20 short-term vicars during the year is not uncommon. In the small municipalities, less than half of the doctors were Norwegian. The causes of the deficiency are complex. I think the other interpellant had a good analysis in his post. One of the reasons is that in a 10-12 year period from 1981, we reduced the number of study places in medicine in Norway. If this had not been done, we would have had access to approx. 1 000 more Norwegians play on the market. Another reason is the large growth in medical positions in the hospital sector in the last five years. In the period 1994 to 1998, the Joint Committee on Medical Sciences and the Structure of Occupations approved approx. 1250 new medical positions in hospitals. During the same period, however, the hospitals created approx. 1,030 jobs without approval. In this period, 163 housing units were allocated to the local health service. Almost all applications from the municipalities were accepted. New agreement policies from 1 July 1998 also included the conclusion of 375 new agreements between county councils and medical specialists. In other words, we have had a very large growth in the number of medical positions and contractual shelters in the specialist health service. In combination with changes in pay and working conditions for hospital doctors, this has contributed to the major problems in the districts in recruiting doctors for general medical care and for community medical work. Lack of doctors and considerable instability also lead many of the doctors who have worked for a long time in the community health service to consider stopping because the stress is too high. This has also turned out particularly unfortunate geographically. During the period 1995-98, the proportion of medical vacancies was 4.3 times higher in the health region 5 than in the health regions 1 and 2. In the context of the introduction of the fixed medical system, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has carried out a survey of the medical needs of the municipalities. The Ministry will estimate that there is a need for approx. 400 new medical positions/homes in connection with the implementation of the reform. This is in addition to the 200 vacant medical positions in the municipalities. In other words, we face a major challenge, which requires joint efforts from both the state and employers in the municipal sector. In order to address this challenge and to achieve an improved geographical distribution of doctors, three key actions are central and need to be seen in the context. The first step is to increase access to doctors in general. It must be followed up by grip No. 2: strict national regulation and distribution of medical positions and homes. The third approach is the implementation of incentives aimed at primary medical care. I'll now elaborate on these three elements. As regards access to doctors in general, I can tell you that in the last ten years there has been a steady increase in medical students. Between 1990 and 1998, the number of training places for the medical study has increased from 310 to 590. In recent years, several Nordics have chosen to study abroad. The figures from the State Loan Fund show that in 1994-95 there were 579 Norwegians studying abroad, while in 1998-99 the figure had increased to 1398. The Ministry of the Church, Education and Research and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health are among others: agree to increase the capacity of the University of Tromsø by 30 places. At the same time, it is topical that the Central Hospital in Akershus is once again starting student education. We will return to this in the state budget for 2000. Health authorities have also, in cooperation with labour market authorities, launched a medical recruitment project under the direction of the Labour Directorate. In 1998, it was estimated that about half of the EU’s population was living in the region. 100 doctors from Germany, Austria and France recruited through the project. The target in 1999 is 200 doctors. In addition, 63 doctors from outside the EEA were authorised in Norway in 1998. Overall, this will help to ensure that the annual availability of doctors will be more than doubled over a decade. At the same time as increased access by doctors, strict national regulation and distribution of medical positions and homes are necessary. This leads me to grip no. 2, which is the introduction of a new national medical distribution from 1 January of this year. The new scheme, adopted by the Stortinget in December last year, is governed by the Municipal Health Services Act and the Hospital Act. It replaces the previously agreed trial of regulation; the so-called ULS agreements between the State, the KS, the Municipality of Oslo and the Norwegian Medical Association. The scheme requires the Ministry to establish an annual framework for the number of new medical positions and homes that can be established in the municipal and specialist health services, including the State's own hospitals. The Government-appointed National Council for Specialist Medical Training shall advise the Ministry on this distribution framework. The detailed treatment of individual positions lapses. With regard to the distribution framework of the specialist health service and the local health service respectively, I have on several occasions clarified that priority areas of action should be cancer, psychiatry and primary health services. Prioritisation of primary health services is particularly important in view of the introduction of the fixed medical scheme from 1 January 2001. In order to achieve this priority and to reduce the scope of vacancies, the challenge will be to create fewer jobs than net access to doctors. In this way, several doctors will be able to apply for primary health care. This has also been followed up by the National Council by recommending to the Ministry not to approve more than 80 new posts in the specialist health service for 1999. The overall allocation framework will be clarified in April to May this year. Before this allocation framework is established, there is no possibility of creating new posts. It is important, however, that medical regulation should not prevent medical recruitment. As I explained in the Questionnaire on 17 February, I have therefore seen it as absolutely necessary for the primary health service to establish a transitional regime until the final distribution framework is in place. This means that the National Council has been delegated by the Ministry to allocate up to 24 seats to the primary health service until 1 May 1999. The third step that must be taken to improve the geographical distribution of medical services is to implement measures to improve the recruitment and stability of the general medical service until after the introduction of the fixed medical system. In 1999, there will be 20 million. to incentives to improve recruitment and stability of primary medical positions. A guidance system for new and new doctors is already in place in the four northernmost counties. The aim is to take care of the turn doctors and the new recruits as a resource for further recruitment to the general medical service. The evaluation so far suggests that this is a very good measure. Doctors in the same counties, with the exception of the municipality of Tromsø, will also be given better conditions through a proposed scheme of grants for continuing education in general and community medicine. Furthermore, there may be much evidence that high vigilance is an important reason why both newly trained and more experienced doctors do not apply for community health services. That is why I am dedicated to stimulating local authorities to develop alternative models of medical care cooperation. Municipalities that have ideas about medical cooperation can apply for funds for investigation and start-up of intermunicipal medical cooperation by 1 May this year. The Ministry announces this possibility in these days. Further work is being done on the design of guidelines for a government-organised temporary employment scheme for particularly vulnerable municipalities. It is current that the Directorate of Labour is a secretariat for, initially, a probationary system for municipalities with special problems. Lack of professional networks and lack of opportunities for professional development have also been highlighted as a problem in outlying municipalities. Therefore, the Ministry is working on measures to strengthen primary health services in selected resource municipalities. Cooperation with the university communities in research and training activities is relevant. The Ministry has also started a course in so-called national courses for doctors from the EEA region in all its health regions. In the long term, I expect that increased access to doctors in combination with tight state governance and distribution of medical services and those incentives will improve the stability of medical positions in those parts of the country that are currently experiencing the greatest medical shortage. However, it also presupposes loyalty to the new medical distribution system and active efforts by employers. I have set up a partnership with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs to assist the municipalities in solving the medical situation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-22.ana.ud1312e372	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I can't see that there's any contradiction between the considerations I have, and those that the council here announced. I think that many of the grips outlined and the thoughts presented by the Council of State are things that can contribute constructively to the problem. However, there are some things I could think of pointing out in terms of the distribution of doctors. SV has been very concerned about realising the firmness reform. When it is now exposed, we hope that the time of the postponement can be used constructively to do something, especially in those municipalities where the recruitment difficulties have been particularly severe. What I record when you talk to both municipal doctors and the people around the country, and especially where you have a lack of a body, is the fear that the permanent reform will be even more centralizing, and that now you have doctors who are positioning themselves in the context of the introduction. It would therefore have been tempting, or at least one might think of it as an instrument, that municipalities with particularly large recruitment difficulties had come to the fore and not after the municipalities that would then easily be able to recruit doctors. SV has proposed this before, but not implemented it. I would have liked the views of the Council of State on this and some considerations about the reform of the system and the way in which to ensure, in particular, the most difficult of the municipalities. One more thing that I could wish the Council of State to consider is the district tour system. In my view, there is a quite obvious misunderstanding when the time in hospitals is getting longer – it gets shorter in districts – and a large part of the studies in any case concentrates on hospital medicine. The trends we see in medicine are also very strong in the direction of increased specialisation, while, in my opinion, we have had a very fortunate structure in Norway by the fact that the general medical service has been so focused. Therefore, it is important to identify interventions that can counteract the rashes that result in the escape from primary health services. In addition, we see that the provision of specialist services is very different in different health regions. It would have been desirable to have some kind of monitoring in the different health regions of the actual specialist needs and the coverage to be provided by specialists, in order to make targeted use of tools to stimulate specialists to get out in the regions where there is a lack of specialists, and to reduce the number of specialist homes and the contribution to those where there is a type of over-establishment. In addition, some of the measures taken include: the free choice of hospitals, in consequence, may be considered to be centralising, because there is a lack of funds at the smaller hospitals to operate to ensure the hospital's income. To this extent, I could imagine hearing the thoughts of the Council of State about it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-22.ana.ud1312e387	I agree with Mr Ballo that the time gained in preparing for the permanent reform should be used constructively. I can assure the representative that we do. The fact that both individual municipalities, state authorities and other parties are given better time to prepare for the implementation of the reform is in itself positive. It is a major reform affecting all the inhabitants of the country. On this very basis, the same batches proposed to postpone the reform also proposed strengthening the funding for incentives for primary medical services. This means that during this release period these measures will be reinforced. This is essentially the type of action I described in my first response. As regards the risk of medical positioning, the Ministry has always been concerned about it. Therefore, this market is closely monitored. I have been informed that there will be a very low threshold to say from and possibly consider intervening if we see that there is a positioning that can help to weaken the prerequisites for implementing the reform. The partial introduction of the reform in individual municipalities has been discussed. My view is that this is such a comprehensive and far-reaching reform, affecting so many parts of the healthcare system, and affecting all citizens, that it is organisationally and not least communicationally difficult to implement it gradually. That is why, for our part, we have come to the conclusion that all practical considerations mean that it is being implemented at the same time across the country, but that the conditions for this to happen need to be strengthened. I agree with the representative of Ballo that the tour system is a very important part of this picture. That is why one of the measures I presented is precisely to support the tour system and the tour time through guidance, with which we have good experience from the Nordic states. The proposals put forward by the representative, Mr Ballo, in this connection, I think there is reason to consider in greater detail. To strengthen psychiatry as part of the tour service, we are already investigating.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-22.ana.ud1312e398	Many areas in Norway today lack medicine. This applies both in the primary health care and in hospitals. Interpellation is therefore important, and the Workers' Party supports the intention of the proposals. Maybe they could profit from being sent to the Government as the Council of State said here. The system we've had with controlled distribution of doctors has been undermined by the fact that many hospitals, especially in central districts, have illegally set up posts and contracted doctors at the expense of many districts. Demanding vigilance in primary health services and other conditions has also led many doctors to engage in hospital services. Quite exactly two years ago, the government of Jagland presented proposals for a fixed scheme to which the majority of the population also joined. This was a fundamental step in ensuring a more stable medical supply and a more transparent and predictable working and salary relationship for the population. In the course of the proceedings, the Workers' Party adopted two proposals, as follows: ‘I. The size calls on the Government to pay special attention to municipalities with unstable medical coverage and to return to Stortinget with measures that can improve such a situation. II. The Government asks the Government to draw up criteria for which municipalities should be able to receive special incentive schemes for better and more stable medical coverage.» I expect the government in its work to follow up these decisions. The release of the fixedlegislation was, in my view, a poor response to the challenges we are discussing today. I would also like to point out that during the course of this year's budgetary procedure, the Labour Party promoted publishers of about 10 million. additional to recruitment measures. The Labour Party has also addressed and supported the scheme, as outlined by the Council of State, with the allocation of medical positions to the regions with a view to achieving fairer medical coverage throughout Norway. For a long time, we will also probably depend on being associated with foreign doctors, especially with district municipalities and a number of hospitals. Even if we are to ensure, through the licensing and authorisation system, that foreign doctors meet the necessary professional requirements, it seems that the exemption rules can sometimes be too strictly enforced. This may lead to a lack of practice in Norway for purely formal reasons by well-qualified doctors. I would ask the Minister of Health to assess this. As an example, I can mention Odda Hospital, where a doctor has specialist training in orthopaedics from his home country Germany and basic training from Hungary. The fact that the doctor has basic training from Hungary appears to disqualify the doctor from regular work in Norway. This can't be right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-22.ana.ud1312e429	Temporary shortages of hospital doctors and general practitioners in different parts of the country and districts are no new phenomenon. With approx. 15 000 doctors in total in the country should not really be lacking in either hospital doctors or general practitioners, nor should it really be. Over time, several different attempts have been made by the authorities to direct the doctors to what they wanted, with little luck. The profession of medicine is also a free profession and, fortunately, the idea of ordering is abandoned in most political environments. Today, we look at the situation in terms of population per capita. occupational doctor under 70 years of age, the distribution is as follows: in health region 1 and 2: 303 inhabitants, in health region 3: 360, in health region 4: 353 and in health region 5: 318. So there are fewer inhabitants per. doctors in health regions 1 and 2 and in health region 5. The number of medical staff in the municipal health service, i.e. the general medical service, in 1997 shows the following figures: for the Westfold counties 1,381 persons per year. doctor, for Finnmark 883 persons per play. These two figures show that the 1997 general medical coverage was actually much better in Finnmark than in the Westfold counties. The situation today is roughly the same. It is true, as the interpellant points out, that recruitment to the general medical service has been much lower in recent years than in the past. Some of the explanation for this may be the plans to put in place a fixed medical system in the country, which many general practitioners actually fear in view of the responsibilities and duties imposed on them as prescribers. My claim in this way is that the fixed medical system is a contributing cause for low recruitment to the general medical service. Until the current year, it was a medical distribution committee, the so-called ULS, which was to regulate the access of specialists to county municipalities and regions. The scheme did not work as intended. From 1999 onwards, the medical distribution function has been taken over by the Ministry, which is now to distribute specialists to the regions. I personally have no faith that this will solve the problems, and I am opposed to any kind of regulation and conducting of doctors. The counties and primary municipalities must enter into the existing competition for medical services in the market. By providing good pay, good employment and good infrastructure, a doctor will be able to recruit better than by public regulation. I also think it's very important, even with regard to the specialist coverage, that you now get some peace around the hospital structure, and that the specialist medical positions become predictable over a longer period of time. With regard to the proposals, I would recommend to the interpellant that they be submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-22.ana.ud1312e450	Despite the growing number of doctors in Norway, we have a disproportionately high number of vacancies. There are not only individual groups or parts of the country, but it is just as the interpellant points out that there is a clear geographical bias. According to WHO statistics, Norway has 3.17 doctors per year. A thousand inhabitants. Only Spain and Belgium have more. We therefore need to ask the question whether the doctors we have are appropriately placed in relation to needs and tasks. In the coming years, we will note the impact of increased admissions to the medical study in Norway, from 345 in 1992 to 415 in 1993 and 490 in 1996. In 1998, the recording in Tromsø increased from 70 to 76, and it has been decided to increase further to 100 when the locations allow it. Similarly, an increase from 90 to 120 students in Trondheim is planned. At the same time, the number of Norwegian medical students abroad has more than doubled from less than 600 in 1994 to nearly 1300 in 1998. As the Council of State has pointed out, this will lead to a significant increase in the number of finished doctors in a few years. There are many reasons why Norway should have a relatively high level of medical coverage. Large geographical distances with partly difficult communication conditions are one moment. Nor does the increase in the number of finished doctors represent a corresponding increase in the number of medical jobs, including: because a greater part of the new doctors are women, who take more than men into account that they have a family, inter alia. by taking out leave and making more use of the part-time position. But it's a problem when an investigation shows that subordinate doctors in hospitals use 20 pst. of their working time other than for medical purposes. I'm glad the Health Minister here has signaled more office positions. Many years of experience have taught me that office staff are more capable of doing office work than doctors. And it's unacceptable when we can read that doctors at Ullevål Hospital have to reject patient work in order to write journals by hand. In any case, the doctors are in the same situation as most of us: we drown in paperwork. I'm glad that the department has started work to reduce the form field, so that doctors can free up more time for the patients. With regard to the geographical distribution, it is important for the Minister of Health to implement strict national regulation and the allocation of posts and places of employment. Positive instruments are better here than coercion. One important tool has been the allocation of study places, with a clear link between study places and future workplace choices. It is therefore important that education has a district profile, and it is right that the increase in places of study should remain outside the Oslo pot. But the medical distribution is uneven even within the regions. This is also why it is a good measure to include hospitals other than university hospitals in medical education, as it is now done, for example. in the West. In this way it can be very positive to include e.g. The central hospital in Akershus as a place of education for some of the students at the Oslo faculty. With regard to the inter-pellant's proposals, I would like to refer to what the Council of State has stated on the work in progress and ask the interpellant to convert the proposals into transmission proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-22.ana.ud1312e465	The medical distribution in Norway is an ever-increasing problem. In the budget agreement before Christmas, the Right contributed to several measures to address the medical shortage in the districts. We contributed another 5 million. to encourage the improvement of medical coverage in outlying areas, for increased training, with increased admission of medical students in Bergen, Trondheim and Tromsø, and to look at the possibilities for re-establishment of medical training at the Central Hospital of Akershus. These are important measures, as experience shows, as many people have been here, that the majority of health professionals trained close to home also live there. In addition, the right was passed to lift the ban on social security for doctors over 70 years of age. In a situation of great physical deficiency, this was a meaningless prohibition. There is also reason to believe that the fixed medical system is contributing to the lack of a doctor. If we look at the statistics on medical work carried out in the Municipal Health Service for 1997, this shows that it does so per year. Year-old work was 883 inhabitants in Finnmark, 110 in Troms and 1,068 in Nordland. In Oslo, there were 1,322 inhabitants per year. Playing years' work and in Akershus 1439. Akershus was also the county that had the highest number of inhabitants per year. In 1997, medical services in the municipal health service had the worst primary medical coverage. Districts that struggle with lack of body can also do a lot themselves. The right has pointed out that county councils can strengthen recruitment and retain more doctors through flexible working arrangements that allow doctors to combine private and public employment. In the case of hospitals, it is important that they be organised in such a way that as much of the working time of doctors as possible is spent on patient treatment and less on administration. In addition, one must be concerned with making the positions professionally attractive. I have noticed what Health and Social Manager Bjørn Atle Hansen in the municipality of Nordkapp has said: Here is the lack of a body a stranger. They've been busy creating a good circle and making it attractive to work in the municipality. It's about a lot more than wages. They are offensive to professional development, updating and further education — and they succeed. Black paint and misery description are timeless. The right hopes that a new medical distribution system, as well as, for which the Minister of Health was involved, increased access to doctors and incentives aimed at primary health services, can help improve conditions. I would like, like several others, to ask the representative, Mr Ballo, to turn the Socialist Left's proposals into transmission proposals, on the basis of the statement that the Minister of Health has had here today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-22.ana.ud1312e480	I think it is good that this question is raised again, but the topic has been debated many times before, without any significant improvement in the situation. As former rapporteur in a small municipality of Northern Norway, I have good knowledge of what the lack of a body means in District Norway. I think it looks like Alvheim and Sjøli representatives are completely ignoring the distance problem when they list the statistics on medical density. In areas with large distances, it is not that easy that one can only call for help from another municipality that currently has a good medical coverage. In such a situation, municipalities are forced to pursue a policy of over-the-counter in order to make themselves as attractive as possible to potential applicants for medical leave. In my time as rapporteur, we had to resort to such recruitment measures. This could give results for one municipality, but there were no more doctors for that reason. The result is that the problem is only transferred from one municipality to another. The medical situation has been totally unsustainable for too many parts of District Norway for a long time, and so I think it will be until the training capacity of doctors is significantly increased and special tools are put in place for recruitment in the community health service. For the northern part of the country, it will be essential that several doctors can be graduated annually at the University of Tromsø. We know from experience that a large number of doctors who take their education in Tromsø choose to stay in the country. I have registered that there are very well qualified health professionals among our new countrymen and women, including doctors. I have met with refugees with specialist skills, but who have been inactive for years because of the inertia of the system. In a situation of great medical shortage and lack of other health professionals, it must be wrong that well-qualified personnel should have to fight to get the formalities right, so that they can enter a job in the healthcare system. We cannot afford to lose such resources, nor can we afford to let them go inactive against their will. In my view, the legislation needs to be reviewed in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-22.ana.ud1312e494	Verbally, we all agree that everyone should be provided with a satisfactory health care service, regardless of where in the country a resident lives. But the verbal agreement is obviously not enough. The medical coverage in Norway is distorted. At the end of 1997, there were more than 190 unoccupied positions and contractual shelters in the municipal medical service, and in the hospital sector there were 650 unoccupied positions. The highest was the unemployment rate in Nord-Trøndelag, the Northern Norwegian counties and Sogn and Fjordane. The implementation of the fixed medical device will make a significant contribution to ensuring an equivalent provision of healthcare to the population. A fixed medical device means that any resident will be offered to become associated with a general practitioner with a public contract. In view of today's medical situation, regret may be expressed that a majority in the United Kingdom has chosen to postpone the implementation of the reform, but on the other hand, I am pleased that there is a broad consensus on the principles and content of the reform and that the reform will be implemented. A free medical market is most likely to reinforce the current bias. I think there is reason to point out that the Municipality of Oslo – based on a sense of solidarity and justice – also underlines the need for regulation and a national distribution of doctors. I also want to point out the phenomenon that many private practitioners establish themselves in the Oslo area without an agreement with the municipality or county. This relationship can contribute to the development of a two-part health service in the Oslo region, where the buyer is given completely different opportunities than the buyer. Several private health clinics and private practitioners currently offer services based on prostheses that can be up to three times as high as the contract-based doctors take. Thus, both the patient’s self-payment and the remuneration of health professionals could be significantly different in the two health systems. These relationships can also be elements that make it more difficult to get a fair health service and a fairer medical coverage, which we all want. I would urge the Minister of Health to take a closer look at these issues, and whether they can have consequences for the medical cure that we depend on, both in addition to the country and for the public health services in general.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-22.ana.ud1312e507	Although Norway has some of the highest medical density in the world, there is a shortage of doctors that makes many job homes unmanned, both in the primary and specialist health services. At the turn of the year it was approx. 900 medical vacancies, and this is very worrying. There is reason to say that there was little prediction when, in the 1980s, the number of medical study places in Norway decreased. This lasted over a ten-year period. Although education in medicine has increased again in the 1990s, the need for and growth in medical positions has increased strongly in recent years, including the following: this is particularly true in the hospital sector. There is reason to point out that although hospitals were allocated approximately in the period 1994-98. 1250 new medical positions were also created more than 1000 medical positions without authorisation in the hospital sector. It is therefore very important and gratifying that the Minister of Health now – and also in February this year in response to me in the Questionnaire on my question on the same subject – clearly states that the medical distribution needs to be better managed and regulated. It is important that primary health services are now deliberately prioritised along with areas such as cancer and psychiatry. The geographical distribution needs to be carefully considered in terms of primary health services and also in relation to the smaller hospitals in relation to the specialist health service/2. line service. Then it's not enough just to add the number of patients per. doctor on the ground. Also, geographical conditions, such as distances in the community health service and distances from the 2nd line service, need to be taken into account. It is gratifying that we have now achieved a significant increase in medical training in Norway, among others. with a training offer also in North Norway, at the University of Tromsø, and that this offer will be increased as early as next year. It is also important that general medical education can be strengthened and organised in order to enhance the status of general medical practice and that there is greater room for research and further training in this field. Stronger cooperation between primary health services and specialist health services can provide greater flexibility, more professional challenges and better resource use. Strengthening primary health services, with better both qualitative and quantitative medical coverage, will be the most effective drug use we can have, and will serve both patients and public budgets and services. I am also pleased that the government in the budget this year signaled that it will try to look at the situation of primary doctors, among other things. in relation to the bureaucracy and the issues that take up their time more than patient treatment itself.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-22.ana.ud1312e528	Interpellation itself will, of course, not solve these problems. However, I am pleased with the signals that have come from almost all the parties in this room. I think that the approach both from the Council of State and from many of the others who have spoken is constructive. I also noticed Britt Hildeng's description in relation to Oslo. I think it would be too easy to talk about a crisis in the districts, and that this would mean that you would have to offer some healthcare services in Oslo. But I agree with Hildeng – considering that in some areas there is so much resources, not least in the Oslo specialist health service – that there is a need to look at distribution mechanisms in order to create a better health care provision in health regions. In parallel with this, for example: also Oslo's problems to cope with in the primary health service. It is therefore a matter of better organisation, better distribution and a willingness to offer the people who have a solidarity perspective in themselves, and where they do not squander on each other and suspect the motives. I think there is a clear line in this Chamber, not between the socialist and the bourgeois parties, but between all the parties and the Progress Party. I don't stop wondering about the head of the social committee when his answer to the challenges we're facing here is to talk about and look at any kind of distribution and regulation of the doctors as a udder. I have very good contact with doctors around the country, not least from the Association of General Practitioners, and also with specialists. There are few doctors in this country who have such an unhealthy thought about how we can create a better health care system. Most people are actually concerned that politicians have a responsibility to do something about this. What the Progress Party here is doing is getting out of the debate altogether, as well as having a willingness to use resources without controlling resources. That means that we'll get a much more expensive and a much worse health care system. I hope, when we are going to discuss these issues again and again, that the Progress Party can be a far more constructive contributor to finding solutions. I record again and again that the Right is that, although the approach may be different from what SV might think. Ideological dividing lines must be accepted. However, disclosing yourself out of that debate by saying that nothing should be involved in governing, nothing should be shared, and the doctors are a free profession, is the same as saying that you do not have a health policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-22.ana.ud1312e541	There has been an interesting debate on the will to govern, but also on the instruments that are sufficient and good in governing. I am, as the representative Alvheim, opposed to the conduct of doctors to specific positions, but I am not opposed to the management of the allocation of new medical resources, for all experience so far shows that if we don't control, there will be a distorted distribution of cake. The results we are facing today are, in my view, rather a result of a lack of governance and poor governance mechanisms than a result of mismanagement. That is why I believe that we still need a proper allocation of new medical resources through the job framework. I also think it is important in the light of the concerns expressed by the representative Hildeng. I belong to those who do not want a development towards a more two-part health care system, and I think a free market would inevitably lead to it. That is why we also need tight management with approval of new hospitals. If not, this centralization trend could continue. I want to warn against a fragmentation of tariff areas, which can also contribute to something of the same kind. In my view, this will be an important point in the future debate on health policy. Let me then get into an area that the representative Kristoffersen raised, namely the approval of doctors outside the EEA territory. I have previously stated in a spontaneous Question Time – it is possible it was in response to questions from the representative Kristoffersen – that we will look at how we can simplify the procedures and contribute to a simpler recognition of doctors trained by some educational institutions outside the EEA area. We are now in the process of doing so, including: training institutions in Poland and Hungary. That's set of 1 million. SEK for an investigation work in 1999, and I expect that work to continue in the approval process. Finally, let me say to the representative, Sjøli, that it is not only important how we distribute resources, but also how resources are used, how the doctors' workforce is used in health care. We have to keep focusing on doctors being used until the doctor is trained for, and not on a lot of other tasks that others could do as well or better. We cannot afford that in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-22.ana.ud1312e552	Sir. Ballo has asked for the floor for explanations of vote, I assume, or for answers to various calls.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-22.ana.ud1312e555	There have not been so many calls, but it was a mere forgetfulness on my part. I just want to say that with regard to the two proposals that SV has put forward here, there is so much support for the intention in both proposals from so many parties in this Chamber that I find it quite reasonable that both proposals should be converted into transmission proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-22.ana.ud1312e560	That was the president's guess, too. Debates of the European Parliament So 2 is over. [[Recommendation, see next column]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-22.ana.ud1312e570	We then go to voting on case No. 1 and 2 on today's map.
