ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e24	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to one by one by each group, as well as one by the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to three lines with replies from the Council of State. In addition, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the posts allocated will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e33	The matter we have to deal with today is one that we deal with every four years, with a review of the state ownership shares that the Ministry of Agriculture has overseen. When you look at the setting, there is little agreement between the committee. It's actually just three relationships. One thing we agree on is that we have received the message. The second is that we recommend the attached protocol, and the third is a small note on three lines. In addition, the rapporteur has no right to group a majority for anything, and it has nothing to do with the rapporteur's efforts. With regard to the matter under consideration, we see that the Ministry of Economic Affairs manages at least NOK 3 billion of nominal capital in state holdings. Maybe it doesn't sound that much. It's beyond what you have to assume becomes the country's shares in any exposure to Fornebu. With regard to the comments of the various parties, they may themselves explain to them, as there is no majority voting here, except for the proposal for a decision itself. For the Right, I would say that in this matter of state ownership in general, we went through it thoroughly when dealing with ownership announcement not very long ago, where the different parties had their principal rounds of state ownership, in terms of private ownership and the role of the state as a regulator in this market. I will do nothing but refer to the Right notes in this way. However, the right has a concrete proposal that we have made in connection with this communication, which is that we want the Government of the State budget for 2000 to present a degressive plan for the state's interests in Norwegian business. It is true that the vast majority of state holdings in Norwegian business are a matter of historical conditionality. They have arisen in very special situations, they have often arisen in the absence of private capital, they have often arisen in the context of natural resources, etc. Very much of the justification for state ownership has fallen away. That is also stated in the communication. In addition, the Communication states that the need for state ownership in the interests of socio-economic and sectoral policy interests is changing over time. I would assume that the Ministry and the Council of State are of the opinion that this change over time per. today implies a less need for state ownership than has been the case. There are few operational recommendations in connection with this notification at least as regards and which illustrate the possible way of selling into these companies. I might have expected a little bit about this. As I said, it is on one point that the Committee has a comment that brings together a majority. It is a note relating to Southernvaranger, where the Committee refers to the observations made by the respective fractions in relation to the budget revenue. No 8 for 1998-99 and Innst. No 289 for 1995-96, and where we point out that we assume that the Council of State and the Government implement the winding-up of the government's involvement in the South Warrants ASA as soon as possible, preferably in 1999, and after the leaders put in the budgetary position. In so far as it is possible to have a pious wish towards the Council of States, I ask that he affect in his statement the manner in which it is to be done, and whether it is done in line with the leadership in that budgetary position. I would also like to address the Right-wing proposal, proposal No. 2, refers to the submission and recommends a proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e54	Ansger Gabrielsen has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e57	In a time of major technological change and increasing internationalization of capital, it is quite decisive that Norway has a conscious and clear strategy on whether one will have state ownership, and in that case what one wants with state ownership. In this situation, I believe that state-owned companies are a good tool in industrial policy. The State shall, through its ownership, provide and secure employment and the Norwegian welfare society. Furthermore, state ownership will strengthen the element of long-term Norwegian ownership in our business and make the ownership structure more stable. At a time when much of the capital comes from investors with relatively short-term financial motives, this is important. Although state ownership is more widespread in Norway than is usual in Europe, a growing trend in many countries is now towards the development of a partnership between state and private enterprises. The further development of such partnerships in Norway will be a good step towards a good industrial development with a competitive business, where new technologies and new competences will be decisive elements for Norwegian business. State ownership is not an objective in itself, but in many cases it is desirable to achieve a number of enterprise policy objectives. If one then chooses to sell state ownership, it must also have a clear purpose. Such a hall must be based on strategic plans and thorough analyses. Released resources from the sale of state axes should be used for measures that increase the value creation in Norway, i.e. to various funds leading to new start-ups, innovation, research or new capital to Norwegian business. I would like to remind you of our earlier proposals on investment funds and technology funds, which would be very important and good measures in such a context. This is how the country can use resources to prevent gaps as well as in value creation and competence. And by participating in enterprises, the state can participate in a venture that takes the most possible social interest, that secures an active ownership in Norway, and that prevents the outsourcing of jobs. Nevertheless, State ownership must be exercised professionally and be based on a commercial principle. State holdings, like others, need stability in the dividend policy pursued by the owner. There must be a long-term thinking behind the dividend policy, and it must be designed in such a way as to support the performance objective of the enterprise. At least there must be no such thing as an actual trend, that collapse and government use dividends from state enterprises to meet spending needs. It's a situation that's totally unsustainable and that's not that easy to run for the corporations it's in. Then it's quite understandable that a person gets a call for privatisation from the leaders of these companies. The state must have clear objectives for its ownership, in the same way as for others, for the different activities. The state must define a long-term and good ownership strategy for the individual enterprises. If those who are elected by the state to the board of directors of the various companies do a good job, such goals and strategies should be pursued. Without it, a government will have little power to perform a steering function with gravity. In the cases where the country has sectoral policy objectives with its ownership, which one also has in some contexts, this should be stated in the articles of association of the objectives. At a time when it seemed more and more relevant to sell out parts of the country’s ownership order, it has to be done, as I said, after careful and concrete assessments. Once the Storting has authorised the Government to sell axles, the Storting must also have the right to obtain a foundation for why one has chosen to sell out the different owners. Furthermore, as I have already pointed out, the state should invest funds from the hall of state-owned axes in forward-looking economic development. The Labour Party and the Right have joined in to place the revenue from the hall of state axes into a research fund administered by the Norwegian Research Council. The contribution of this Fund shall concentrate on areas of high national and international value, including: marine research, medical research and environmental research. In this way, when oil comes to an end, we can make it possible for a growth-intensive business. Let me briefly comment on one of the companies mentioned by the big message, which the representative Gabrielsen was also in – for there is particular reason to mention Southvaranger. Südvaranger has been a corner stone company in the Churches since 1906, and the state has for periods, from 1981 until the closure of the ore-based enterprise in 1996, added SEK 4.6 billion in state capital. I would like to claim that there is a wrong use of the state's funds if private shareholders should now receive dividends from these funds. When it comes to the liquidation of the state's sole liability in South Varanger, I, as also Gabrielsen, cannot see that the government has followed up what the Storting has said in this context. The Grand Duchy deals with the winding-up and conversion of Southvaranger in June 1996. Furthermore, it was confirmed during the 1999 budgetary procedure that the winding-up of the State’s involvement in the South Warehouse ASA was to be carried out as soon as possible, preferably in 1999. There's a reason for once again to emphasize that the large number here has said needs to be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e79	This Communication, which provides an overview of state ownership exposures in business activities, can provide a good starting point for a fundamental debate on state ownership in enterprises. The Progress Party has never seen it as a task for the public to operate industrial activities, rather it should concentrate on pursuing an appropriate business policy. For us, it is important that the State should not have it as a public task to conduct speculative business on behalf of taxpayers. As is the case at present, Norway is in reverse in the case of the sale or disposal of holdings in state activities. Fortunately, we have come so far that privatisation is no longer regarded as something disgusting and horrible by most people. Privatisation may be defined by transferring tasks or assets currently covered or owned by the public to private individuals. An extended definition also talks about privatisation when private interests take over a relatively higher share of new tasks than private ones have had in similar areas in the past. The concept is very comprehensive and ambiguous, and therefore difficult to define. In recent years, we have experienced unprecedented privatisation in Europe. In Germany, privatisation has been launched, among others. by Deutsche Telecom, part of the carrier Lufthansa and Deutsche Postbank. The French government has once again focused on Air France, state banks and other privatisation objects that have survived the first round, including: due to firm protests. In Europe as a whole and globally, privatisation of high-tech areas in the public sector is an ongoing feature. Deutsche Telecom and Italian Stet are attractive examples of that. Western European privatisation will be the dominant on a global basis this decade. Privatisation in Germany, France and Italy will dominate in this area in Europe. In the United Kingdom, most public commercial interests have been sold or disposed of. The important thing that remains is British Rail and British Energy. It was at the beginning of the 1990s that the Syse government took the first falsifying steps in this country towards privatisation and the liquidation of unprofitable state enterprises, with the support of the Progress Party. Privatisation was no longer at the theoretical level in Norway. A lot happened in a relatively short time, but then it stopped, until it has now become a movement in this. I am thinking then of the sale of the state's holdings in Norsk Jetmotor, the consequence of the budgetary agreement between the government parties, the Progress Party and the Right on the case of partial privatisation and listing of Telenor and the sale of the shares in Arcus with subsidiaries. The Progress Party welcomes this development and hopes that it will blow a privatization wind over the country, as elsewhere in Europe. The Norwegian State has significant interests in a number of Norwegian companies in the business community. We want some of these holdings to be transferred directly to Norwegian citizens without remuneration, so that the real owners can dispose of their holdings. It will lead to a gigantic adult education of the Norwegian population in being a shareholder and owner. We see it as a goal to separate state-owned corporate interests that are financially justified and transfer them to the population, sell them to private individuals or transfer them to the Swedish Social Security Fund as a contribution to securing future pensions. That is why we are promoting a proposal to appoint a privatisation commission with a mandate to promote proposals to step down State business exposure and to plan the practical implementation of the transfer of interests to the Swedish Social Security Fund, to the population and to sell to private individuals. I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party, referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e102	Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e105	We deal with the state interests that belong to the Ministry of Industry and Trade. But when we think completely, we have to remember that the main state interests are under other departments, for example. within oil, telecommunications, etc. And the reason for state ownership is not clear, it's quite the lack of it. There may be strategic relationships with national resources; there may be framework conditions, such as: infrastructure, it may be long-term ownership, it may be employment and it may be territorial policy considerations. SV will focus on such considerations. What's amazing when I read the comments in the setting is that the center parties, and the centre party in particular, only focus on business principles. They don't say anything particularly about the social considerations that need to be taken. It's essentially a little bit amazing considering the history of the centre parties and especially the centre party. They are also more involved in the dual role than it may be important to have public ownership in the interests of society. They weren't in the last magnification period. It is not surprising that the right in the setting says that ‘this is not a natural task for the country to engage in business’. No, it's natural for right-wing people to take social considerations. For the Right, it is more natural that all power should be brought together in the hands of the shareholders, and that the power should be in closed jurisdictions in important social areas. From some general considerations, I'm going to a concrete and very local problem, namely Sulitjelma. The Ministry has indicated that 2 million have been allocated. as a single State grant to Fauske Municipality's clean-up action plan. Since I wondered why it says ‘one-off’, I went back to the time when the money was granted, and then I found out that the setting does not say anything about it being a one-off grant. Then I moved on to the revised budget last year, where a majority of the financial committee points out that: ‘The amount previously granted has been 2 million. crowns for cleaning up after 100 years of mining at Sulitjelma Mining. There is still a significant clearing work at the former mining site. In order for this work not to stop, continued government involvement will be necessary». This was said by a majority of the financial committee last year. Then I see that the Ministry of Economic Affairs last autumn said that ‘this is to be regarded as a one-off contribution’. At the same time, we can read from the budgetary position last autumn, where it says: ‘The Committee’ — this is a unanimous committee — ‘shows that after 104 years of mining, there are still major environmental pollution in Sulitjelma. The State was the last owner, and the State must therefore be responsible for environmental clean-up in line with the polluter-pays principle.’ In other words, the different committees in Stortinget have said several times that it is a state responsibility to clean up after 104 years of mining. If the job is done, one might say that it is a one-off grant, but if the job is not done, it means that the state still has to have a responsibility. Now you can probably discuss which departments will be responsible for what. But anyway, it's the state that's responsible for cleaning it up after 104 years of mining, and that's what several committees have said. It is therefore surprising that the ministry uses the term ‘single allocation’. I would like a comment from the Council of State on this issue. I assume that when you're going to settle for the sins of the past, you don't get the forgiveness of sins until you've done it properly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e128	The attitude of the Industry Committee in the present case shows predictable political differences along traditional lines of conflict. The Labour Party has a great deal of faith in state ownership, and has few counter-representations to the extent that it gets a great deal. The party of progress takes the opposite extreme and does not want state ownership, but gives away the values of the state. The right goes a little bit more moderate in the same path, but, like the two parties mentioned, also has a strong ideological approach to the matter. The danger of this is that one eagerly after being clean and ranked overlooks both the principal and practical consequences of their own proposals and the balance between different considerations. The central parties are in the centre and have a more pragmatic approach to this subject. It is wrong for the representative Myrvoll to present it as that the centre is only concerned with the business part of the state's interests. For the left, we also have an ideological foundation for our position. We are concerned with the balance of power, the cleanliness of the roles of the state, the balance between social and business considerations. But in this balance, there are the concrete, factual considerations that determine the balance point. In the view of the centre parties, social democracy and the right-hand side are too much in their separate direction, and therefore do not strike the right balance between the rather important considerations to be taken into account for the sake of social development as a whole. On the basis of such a principle, but also practical approach, the Government always assesses how the State should manage its interests at a time of strong business dynamism. Possible sales are considered below. In the view of the Centre, it is therefore unnecessary to set down a privatisation commission, as proposed by the Progress Party, or to ask the Government to make a special phasing-out plan, as proposed by the Right. The portfolio under the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which is currently being treated, is relatively limited and transparent. Moreover, on this occasion I cannot fail to point out two cases where parts of the opposition have tried to create a high level of noise with strong attacks on the Minister of Industry, but where the substance turns out to be equal to zero when the case comes to substance treatment in the Storting. Obviously, the intention has been more to gain political gain in opinion than to discuss political realities. I am here aiming at the sale of Norsk Jetmotor a.s in the establishment of the joint Nordic ammunition company Nammo AS, and I am aiming at the assessments of the state's ownership of A/S Olivin and thereby Moxy AS. In the Nammo case, the head of the Control and Constitutional Committee went high on the run against the Minister of Industry. I do not go further than this, but I note that the suspension has not raised a single objection to the ministry's handling of the matter. The same is true of Olivine and Moxy. Here, it is cynically played on the sense of security that people can have in relation to the fact that the state owns a business, without considering that in many cases businesses can be much safer and more forward-looking with an active private owner. With a more open economy in the world, competitive and market conditions are constantly changing, and any company competing with others must be on hold to maintain and strengthen its position. It is not given in any way that the state is the owner who can best contribute to this. In most cases, the state is a passive owner, who is just not good enough to run businesses in a new reality. If the country is to sell shares in commercial activities, there are two considerations that should count equally. One thing is that the government's money can be invested in businesses that are more important, another that you get active and committed owners who can strengthen the company. The committee work in Stortinget usually brings things down to the ground, and we get to clear up the real political lines. This case shows that the good balance point is at the centre, and that the Government supports its ownership policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e147	The notification submitted gives an overview of the activity in the last four years of some major industrial holdings in which the State has shares. I see the Committee's position as broadly in favour of the proposals of the Department, which in particular set out the basic features of our management of these State interests. State ownership must be exercised in a professional manner and based on commercial principles. The general starting point of government companies shall be a profitable operation. In setting targets for returns and dividends, the same principles should apply as in private industrial companies. The government is currently reviewing the ownership of some state-owned industrial enterprises and will focus on a policy of more active and diverse ownership. We'll see if the state's capital can do a better job if it's moved from established companies to contribute to new, more risky establishments. Stock sales are going to be the right and necessary part of this. In some companies, the state may go completely out; in others, the option may be a partial privatisation. The sale of State shares is therefore part of the Government’s policy. In June 1998, the Government authorised the sale of shares in 1998 for up to 500 million. kr, provided that the sale could be made at an acceptable price. The mandate was subsequently extended for 1999. There's a lot going on here in ours. The country's third in Norsk Jetmotor has already been sold, and there are committed advisers to assess a sales strategy for the Arcus Group in order to be able to submit a proposal to the Stortinget. A valuation of A/S Olivin has been started. The state has just sold itself into the credit fund. The Norwegian Bank will follow. The merger between Telenor and Telia appears imminent. These are today owned 100 pst. by the Norwegian and Swedish States, where the sale of the State’s holdings will be part of the scheme. We get a similar development in the Norwegian Medical Pot. The government has a pragmatic attitude in these matters. Each company is assessed for the reasons for continuing state ownership, where appropriate how the State can sell off in a positive way for the enterprise in question, which may acquire the new owner who has an interest, competence and capital to further develop the business and which may at the same time lead to the sale of the enterprise at an acceptable price. In particular, the requirement to sell at an acceptable price, as the Stortinget itself has established, requires us to provide time for a sound assessment of all stages of the process. Here, practice has been to use both Norwegian and foreign advisers and to deal with the matter in cooperation with the company’s board of directors. The extensive state ownership in Norway also makes it important to be aware that the public can play a double role as both company owners and market regulators, as pointed out in a comitology note. The government raised the issue in the big business ownership announcement and will continuously follow up the need to organise ownership in some companies, so that ownership and regularity are more widely exercised by different departments. I would like to mention that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health already when Arcus AS was organized as a limited company, transferred ownership to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade. Similarly, the State's remaining shares in the Norwegian Medisinaldepot will be dealt with. As far as Sydvaranger ASA is concerned, I note that the Committee has not objected to the fact that the State's shares in this company may be sold on the basis of the decision I referred to earlier. Of course, I will work to wind up the country's involvement in the company as soon as this is possible, and preferably in 1999. Here, however, I must also refer to my previous statement on the handling of this matter in the budget debate in the autumn. There are important business reasons why winding-up work has to take some time. Mining concession and emissions permit for continued mining are available, but the company ABM has not yet taken over the mining equipment and facilities previously agreed upon. Other land and assets must also be traded, including half of Pasvik Kraft DA, and a significant claim from Höganäs must be negotiated. The state's behaviour will lack the professionalism we've pointed out above, if we put ourselves under a time pressure in such matters. As I see it, the management of Sydvaranger ASA has, under these conditions, been able to actively contribute to the company being able to provide room for the current new business in South Varanger, so that it cannot be said that the conversion work is prevented by the line chosen in the winding-up work. But of course, we are all interested in completing the liquidation work as soon as possible. Finally, the question from the representative Myrvoll about Sulitjelma Bergverk. It is such that state authorities, Bergvesenet and environmental authorities no longer have any claim against the company, which has also been wound up, in terms of cleaning. So the company has settled separately with regard to all state requirements. However, the municipality itself has developed a plan of measures for further clean-up, as they see it needed, and for that plan of measures a sum of 2 million has been allocated. kr from the State. But in the case of the state, the requirements of the Bergvesene and the environmental authorities on clean-up have been met.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e169	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e172	I noticed the Council of State's mention of Sydvaranger, who was as good as possible, but I could have thought of a slightly more complete comment. The background to this is that the Business Committee was in the Churches and was briefed on the role of the South Banks in the current community there, with a presentation that looked at the fact that the enterprise was now almost set up and managing ownership through its private shareholders, preventing a positive development of society there from purely profit-seeking. We were then made aware of this, and were asked to make a headway in the winding-up. I could have thought that the Council of State also said a little about the role that Southern Warrants now have in the community up there.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e181	There is no doubt that the winding-up of Sydvaranger has probably been more complicated and took more time than underpinned by the 1996 decision on winding-up by 1998. We see that an en route has obviously encountered bigger problems here than you could predict, and in and of itself, there are also many larger values visible than the one that you thought was in the company at that time. Among other things, I mentioned in my previous post that this is a legal dispute with the Swedish company Höganäs, which has not yet been clarified and which may need to be clarified in the courts. We know, as we know from the process over these years, that there have been considerable problems selling away, as the Storting has ordered, Pasvik Kraft, because the other owner made it impossible through his veto right. It is probably also the two biggest issues that remain. In relation to the municipality, it may not be so unreasonable that one sees that there is some contradiction between a community and such a dominant enterprise that is in liquidation, which also owns a significant degree of the infrastructure of the community, which is to be returned to the municipality. Not least, we know from the time the committee visited the area that there was a significant dispute about emptying issues. It is now in the process of finding its clarification. I have been informed today that there are now very few plots left, so in a short time, the issue, which has been a considerable conflict in the community, is settled. Then the other sizes remain, which we hope we can get in place quickly. The pleasant thing about all of this is that through this closure, it has been possible to also contribute to the development of nutrition in the area. Among other things, this week a mining concession was granted to the company Arctic Bulk Minerals, which will launch a significant activity in the area with very good support from the community. I also know that the company Sydvaranger is negotiating with other stakeholders who can use the assets that are being wound up by the government for business development. We hope to do all of this within the timescales set by Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e190	When I first read this message, there was a matter under the chapter on Norsk Hydro that I took an interest in and that was previously unknown to me. There the department sharpens the tone and gives almost a warning to Norsk Hydro about a bauxite project in India, the so-called Utkal project, and I'll quote from the message: ‘However, the government expects Norwegian companies to carry out an ethical assessment of their involvement and behaviour in line with internationally recognised human rights standards. We also expect Norwegian enterprises abroad to take responsibility for matters within their own activities in terms of safety, working environment, worker treatment, product quality, etc..» I get very curious when this is highlighted especially for a large international company with a state-owned majority. Why is this so strongly emphasised with regard to this company? Is there any suspicion or reason to believe that Norsk Hydro does not comply with internationally recognised human rights standards, in the light of Hydro's experience and international work? I would like an answer to that from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e202	The fact that this side of the extensive activities of Norsk Hydro is given some space is that there has just been a considerable attention in the political debate here at home. I myself have sometimes been on the pulpit and black on, among other things. hour question about exactly this project. Therefore, some attention has also been given in this Communication. It's probably so that there would have been some attention around it if it hadn't been given any space. What we're saying about this is enough for Norsk Hydro to be a pretty obvious case – you act out the way you behave at home. And they do. We also have a expectation that all Norwegian companies will. It's not because the state owns 51 pst. In Hydro, we expect them to behave like this both outside and at home, but because it's a Norwegian company that does. Such expectations have Norwegian authorities of Norwegian companies. As far as this particular project is concerned, I have often stressed from this pulpit that it is Hydro that sets its business conditions on the basis of the signals given and the policy that the Norwegian authorities are pursuing for all Norwegian companies. And I know explicitly that in relation to this project, Hydro is just concerned with both human rights issues and environmental issues that are affected by the project, and takes care of it to a significant extent. I actually think it's possible to go as far as saying that Norsk Hydro hadn't been in there, it could have looked a lot worse for both the environment and the local population. So, as you can see, Norsk Hydro as a participant down there is a guarantee that just Norwegian view of this is being brought to the project in Orissa in India.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e213	I would also like to focus my attention on the situation that still persists in the case of the South Warehouse ASA. I think you have to set a deadline. That's the biggest thing in the world, and it's not very satisfactory, especially for the community, ever to repeat that things take time. It's a very vulnerable society waiting for a clarification. When ABM has its concession in place, in my opinion, the entire business idea behind the state's ownership of Southvaranger ASA has disappeared. It is still away from conditions that frustrate the community, cf. the Council of State's own statement on this subject with the resolution of property. You can see that the different rates crack with some colossal leaps in value-fixing. The biggest assumption was that the values of ownership would largely fall to the community, so my question to the Council of State is whether he can guarantee that these matters will be in place during 1999. Then it is my request to the Council of State that he disregards everything that the representative Inge Myrvoll said, except what he was about when it was about Sulitjelma Bergverk. It is quite obvious that the state needs to take a closer look at the responsibility it has for cleaning up the community. Finally, I would like to ask the Council of State that, when he is going on his svalbard safari with the Prime Minister, he engages more closely with representatives of the many engagements that the State has over there. The abolition of Svalbard Societal exploitation will be one of the conditions that the Council of State should look at, as it is today a permanent resident who dominates Svalbard.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e226	There is no doubt that both I and everyone who is working on the liquidation of the South Warmers remembers and is concerned about the impatience of the Stortinge here, and I can assure you that we have as high pressure and work as quickly as we can. I refer to what I said in a previous reply here to the representative Rudihagen, that for example. the emptying issue, which was an acute question a short time ago, is now in the process of finding its clarification. We are about to sell out and liquidate it and realize it conglomerate of values that have been in this company. But there are two main sizes of problems in particular. It's a legal dispute with Höganäs, and it's the sale of Pasvik Kraft. As we know, we have encountered direct problems with the other owner, and we are of course required to get the most money out of a realization, based on the provisions of the Share Act and on what Stortinget expects, and therefore we must get sold at a proper price. Now the decisions that have been made open so that we not only wind up the company, but can sell shares and thus liquidate the state's involvement in the company, and of course we will continue to work on that. I would also like to stress, also a little bit on the basis of what Mr Rudihagen said, that minority shareholders should not be overly important. No, they're minority shareholders, but the state actually has to comply with the share law on how to handle the relationship with minority shareholders. They have considerable legal protection, and of course the state must also comply. In order to guarantee that this can be terminated during 1999, I must say that it is difficult to provide any guarantee, but I will comply with what is also stated in the Stortingen decision that it will happen as soon as possible, preferably in 1999, and that is the timetable on which we base. And if we can manage to find a solution when selling the shares, it might be possible to do it quite quickly. Otherwise, I must stress that I will take with me to Svalbard what the representative Kristiansen here says. Unfortunately, there will not be any safari on this trip. It's got to go very fast. Yet, of course, together with the Prime Minister, we are going to focus on the current issues that are there.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e239	So the chord change is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e244	Since it was full on the lines, I have to make a new article. Now I assume that the Minister of Industry, without the invitation of the representative of Kristiansen, largely let it go home beyond what I said more generally about state ownership. When I talked a little bit about the center, I didn't think about the left -- I think the distance between SV and left is pretty big -- there were other groups in the center I thought about more. But let me get back to it with Sulitjelma. The Council of State indicated that the requirements that had been imposed had been met. Now it can also be discussed. I know that in the case of copper content in nearby watercourses etc., you have not reached the limits that apply. But it doesn't just matter if you've got any instructions. In the case of an old mining community, three pieces are important. It's security, it's cleaning up, and it's pollution, things that partially go into each other. And in any case, I believe that the Council of State should not be so cash when he has any settings – partly from a committee majority and partly from a unanimous committee – about different orders. In any case, it should provide some guidance that one might look into the matter more closely and not just take a cash rejection that we have got them and the imposed and that has been done. But it is also questionable whether it has been done. Now I've been in different committees, and I'm pointing out that a majority of the finance committee last year said, ‘There is still a significant clearing work at the former mine. In order not to put an end to this work, continued State involvement will be necessary.’;» I also refer to the unanimous comment of the Committee on Energy and the Environment last autumn, where they said: ‘The Committee points out that after 104 years of mining, there are still major environmental pollution in Sulitjelma. The State was the last owner, and the State must therefore be responsible for environmental clean-up in line with the polluter-pays principle.’ There are two committee comments, one unanimous remark and one majority comment. I don't think the bet council can ignore what I'm saying, and say that we in the department have done the job. Then he says that these committee comments are wrong, and that the Storting is wrong. Is that what the State Council is trying to say here?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e265	I don't think we should make this problem bigger than it is. My point in what I'm saying is that the state's clean-up orders directed through the environmental protection authorities and Bergvesenet are met. It was also the basis for the dissolution of the company, because these would be obligations on the established company. In addition, the municipality has established a plan of measures that has been granted 2 million by the State. Add kr. I must admit that the Council of State does not have the full overview of all the details of such a case, and what may be of cleaning needs. I can therefore promise the representative Myrvoll that I will pursue the question and consider whether there may be aspects of this that require the Council of State to look intently.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e274	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2569]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e288	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose to allow the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e299	The attitude of the Industry Committee on the increase in aid to the shipbuilding industry is only the Progress Party which is not behind it. This is a well-known case, which has appeared in Stortinget many times. We've had it up several times in the 1990s. Various worker party governments have proposed a reduction in the yard support. The Bondevik government did the same, but, most often, the Stortinget has stopped the proposals for reductions that have been promoted. To the extent that it is gratifying that the Government is now promoting a proposal to raise the rates, possibly after the signal of parties in the Grand Duchy that actually constitute a majority. The proposal is to increase the aid from 7 pst. to 9 pst. for new buildings with a value of more than 10 million. EUR and from 3,5 pst. to 4,5 pst. for small new buildings and conversions. There is no doubt that the orders received at Norwegian shipyards fell sharply in 1998, and so far this year there has also been a rather weak order intake. There are probably several reasons why this has happened. There is no doubt that the yard support is an important framework condition for the shipbuilding industry. However, it is also clear that international capacity — perhaps overcapacity — has been a significant contributory cause of falling oil prices and the total loss of off-shore contracts. And as I said, there is no doubt that the uncertainty factor of the size of the yard support has been a problem for this industry. That is why I am pleased that we can now get it up to a level where our competitors in Europe are still lying. And I want to add that I hope it's the last time we unilaterally adjust the yard support. In the committee position, it is a majority who asks the Government to ‘assess further measures to strengthen activity’ in this sector by looking at this with the renewal of the fishing fleet, which in Norway has a very high average age. The Norwegian fishing fleet has an average age of over 20 years, and in many districts, yes, in whole regions the average age is over 30 years. In the case of the ferry fleet, the average age is also high for large parts of it. And it is a majority of the committee that asks the Government to assess whether it can facilitate actions that could trigger missions that can compensate for the decline in the yard industry. I'm not going to use all my measured 10 minutes – I'm going to be glad if others followed the example – but at the end of the day: In the comment of the Progress Party it says: ‘These members consider that Norway is not worthy to participate in a grant race and will therefore oppose the proposal’. I find it difficult to characterise it as a race for subsidies that we give Norwegian industry the same framework conditions – a significant framework condition in fact – as one has abroad. On this basis, I would recommend the setting of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e326	I could imagine starting where the representative Gabrielsen stopped. It is obvious that the issue we are dealing with today is not a race when it comes to providing subsidies, but in fact it is a question of fair framework conditions in relation to those with whom our industry is going to compete in this area. The situation for parts of the ship industry is now serious, and several yards report permits and lay-offs. TBL ships report per. 24 March this year at ca. 450 people are outsourced in the shipbuilding industry. Tangen Verft, who today has 220 lay-outs, will in the course of April assume that 100 men for the construction of one – win and write one – hull. It's a pleasure, but it's – one might say – a short-lived joy. The current stand is one thing, but another is that the overview shows that 8 of our yards will have delivered their last new construction contract by July this year. By the turn of the year 1999-2000, an additional 14 yards will have delivered their last new building. It is part of the image that several contracts were concluded in 1998, when the workshops had the choice between a contract with a very marginal profit, or to send large parts of the workbook out on leave. It is known that every job in the yard industry brings with it around three job vacancies for subcontractors. In this way, the consequences and extent of employment problems can become great if we do not have the power to reverse developments. There are many communities along the coast that will be hard hit if the negative developments that we are now experiencing are not reversed. It goes without saying that the increase in aid rates by itself is not enough, and other immediate measures need to be taken. Great damage has already been done in the year that has passed at reduced rates. Competition with the outside world has not been fair, and Norwegian interests have lost ground. When the image is very serious, there are several bad circumstances that have happened at the same time. First, the bulk of the aid was reduced to the shipbuilding industry, so that the competitive situation of Norwegian shipyards was weakened. It is difficult to interpret as something other than a down-priority of this industry. This was a negative signal both to the market and to opinion. There is no doubt that contracts have been lost following the reduced rates in the yard support. In addition, the bottom has fallen out of the offshore market following the fall of oil prices. From the Labour Party's point of view, both in the budget settings in 1998 and 1999 there was a clear warning against reducing shift support. In the comments on the 1999 budget from the Labour Party and the SV we said: ‘These members would particularly stress that the yard industry is an important district industry with major ringing effects for both private and public activities in the district of Norway. The rates of yard support were reduced from 1998 to the votes of the Labour Party and are now lower than in other OECD countries. This, in the opinion of these members, has been a major contributor to a reduction in the order availability of 50 p.p. Norwegian yards. compared with 1997. The market for the type of ship with our Norwegian speciality has almost dried up in 1998 and Norwegian shipyards have to enter new markets and compete with countries with a higher support rate.’ How a man turns around and turns around, it's actually the sitting government that's got multiple numbers in the Storting to reduce the yard support. Such a proposal has never been voted for by the Labour Party's large-scale group, as the writing on the wall in addition to the spring of 1998 clearly showed that the extensive activity of the Norwegian shipbuilding industry had been on the increase. In this sense, one might say that the medication from the government was not adapted to the health status of the yard industry when the majority of people dosed the medicine. It is positive that the Government is now going to step up its efforts to the OECD and EU levels again, but it is strange that not everything has been done in managing the state budget for the current year. It's very strange when the Government is now able to enter for such an increase in bets, without any extra permissions. For those who think again, there was a hunch that the Workers' Party proposed an additional promise of 125 million. kr, since it was claimed that this would not be enough to satisfy the need. In the Labour Party, we are deeply concerned about the damage caused by the shipbuilding industry during the last year, by the fact that the yard subsidies have been lower than in the countries with which we compete. There is a reason to stress that raising yard support rates is not enough in itself. In this respect, it needs extra lifting to remedy the situation, both in the short and long term. The renewal of the fishing fleet is one area, where considerable effort can be put in, as the fishing fleet is largely old and rational, which the representative Gabrielsen was also involved in. From the St.meld manager. No 51 for 1997-98, perspectives on the development of the Norwegian fishing industry, show that the average age of covered vessels is 23.2 years. Norway is a country with a great need for modernisation. Not least, the environmental aspect will mean a great deal by allowing a completely different consideration to be given to a fleet renewal programme. So we, together with the middle part and the right, say in the setting that we should have the renewal of the ferries. The research ship «G. O. Sars" is now 30 years old and is overly mature for replacement. Building such a ship is an area in which Norway really has a point competence. The administrative situation in the fisheries sector clearly shows that a replacement is high in time. The research vessel is an important part of the monitoring of fish resources, which in turn forms the basis for the sustainable management of our fish resources. This is one of the measures a number of Stortinget has pointed to in the St.meld management. No 51, which I already mentioned. The problems in the yard industry come at the same time with problems in the supplier industry. I would, therefore, like to stress that a number of members of the Committee, with the Labour Party and the Intermediate Party, are asking the Government to consider a change in the petroleum law. It should be ‘advanced to facilitate, inter alia: development of smaller ‘waiting’ fields and fields for expansion. No one can fail to take inward that much of the engineering competence before the offshore industry now encounters dark times. The drop in oil-related activity is now noticeable. In that context, it must be a heavy argument to consider this specifically in connection with the award of the frigate contracts. It may cost us dearly if this engineering skills are confused and, in the worst case, flagged out – not to mention that this workforce can go into unemployment. The last time we had a comprehensive job solution, it cost us really expensive. We cannot ignore such costs when making assessments in frigate cases. A national effort is needed. We have agreements that regulate how to assign a task, through e.g.: The EEA Agreement. What's going to be our task is to see that our shipyards actually get to compete on equal terms with the shipyards in other countries. There is a reason to remember that when the Government is now asked to evaluate different actions to get the activity up, there must be a clear call for those who are to place their orders concretely, that they also participate in this task by actively using Norwegian shipyards. Norway is a maritime nation and should continue to be so. Then we need to make sure that what is to be a central competence environment, the shipbuilding industry, is given a framework that is comparable to that of our competitors. Today's decision will be a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e369	I should like to refer to the comments made by the Progress Party in the Committee's budgetary position for the 1998 financial year on aid rates for the shipbuilding industry. Furthermore, I would like to remind you that the government parties gained an understanding from the Progress Party and the Right of Subsidy for a revised scheme, which resulted in a reduction in the aid rates for the shipbuilding industry for 1998 from 9 to 7 p.m. for large new buildings and from 4,5 to 3,5 pst. for small new buildings and conversions. These rates of aid have continued at the same level of the current year. We have recorded that the Government and the political parties in this Chamber, all except the Advance Party, are in favour of increasing the rates of aid to the level before 1998. We want to be a little more restrictive in this area by continuing the grant of industrial aid in the construction of ships at today's level. As a consequence, we will go against the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e376	In several coastal communities, the yard industry is alpha and omega. They're experiencing tough times now. Some shipyards have already outsourced part of the workforce, with the negative consequences it has for the individual and often for the whole of the maritime industry in the community. After advent of adventurous years, especially in 1997, with orders far above normal capacity, there is a drought in new contraventions. And the Christian People's Party is afraid that in the first place it owes the world economy, and that it is therefore difficult to change. Of course, for outsourced industries such as the shipping industry, the fall in the Austen currency will have much to say for each order placed. And when Korea delivers 40 pst hulls. More affordable than we can deliver, it's hard to compete with. Uncertainty and economic instability in Austen, Russia and South America are also likely to lead to potential investors on the fence and to the prospect of new buildings. The national authorities have had a lot to say that a colossal contraction occurred before the end of 1998 because the aid rates were known to be lower from 1 January. But in this case, the government has taken the situation seriously and eliminated the competitive disadvantages of lower yard support rates. As a speech to the representative Rita Tveiten, I would like to mention that the government of Bondevik was not the first government to propose a reduction in interest rates. It has done both the Jagland government and the Brundtland government before, without it being adopted. When lower rates were adopted in the 1998 budget, it obviously had to do with the need to tighten up the economy, but it also had to do with the very tight labour market. The wheel then went silent, and in such a situation, it doesn't normally subsidize. Now, the situation is hardly normal at the time of the shipyard — it goes up and down like waves in the North Sea. However, the economic situation has radically changed both on a world-wide and in the local environment where the yard in difficulty are corner stone holdings. Thus, as the case-leader pointed out, the stakes are back at 1997 levels. In future, our shipyards must compete for quality and, where appropriate, technological innovation. And if the order intake for 1999 is at least $8 billion, as the government budgets, it will say that the wheels are going into the yard this year as well. The majority of the Industry Committee asked the Government to consider additional measures to strengthen the activity of our shipyards. The renewal of fishing fleets and ferries is a positive measure and a sensible counter-cyclical policy within a limited area. And one should also consider whether any Norwegian fishing boat contracting support should be independent of where the boat is built. Norway has now the same rate of aid as that envisaged by the regulation in the EU/EEA area. But the world is basically something different than the world is on paper. It is a well-known case that many dirt roads are used for e.g. providing yard R & D support in several EU countries. It is also claimed that the economic support of the yard industry in Spain should be above 20 pst, while one should receive 13 pst. for fishing boats in Portugal. The Norwegian authorities, who claim to be in such a different competitive position, have reason to be proud. Norway is not in any way involved in a grant contest even if we raise the stakes of the normative in the EU. I am very pleased that the Government is getting a break from its proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e391	In the 1999 financial position, the majority of the financial committee, all except the members of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, propose to ask the Government to present an assessment of the situation in the yard industry. In St. prp. No 35 on 5 February, the Government has sent such an assessment to the Stortinget and proposes to increase the rates of construction aid to the shipbuilding industry. The yard’s new orders have varied considerably in the last decade — from DKK 2.3 billion in 1992 to DKK 20 billion in 1997. The large opening of contracts at the end of 1997 may have been the reason for the draft budget by both the government of Jagland and later the central government to reduce the rate of subscription to 7 and 3.5 pst. from 1 January 1998. Many suggest a decrease in the activity of the yard in 1999. It would therefore be quite straightforward to increase the percentage of redundancies as proposed by the Government, so that Norwegian shipyards will now have the same conditions as shipyards in other countries. The shipyard industry is part of a maritime environment. It has provided a basis for employment and economic value creation, especially in coastal areas. The marine environment is based on economic development based on freight and maritime transport, oil and gas exploration and extraction, and not least through fishing and fishing. A good educational environment is established at both higher and higher levels, as well as research and development, both regionally and at universities and state universities. The maritime environment has had a positive and good development in several areas, and there has been a monthly lifting of knowledge and competence in these industries. The development of new and advanced products in several areas has opened up new markets both nationally and internationally. Behind the businesses in these industries are many imaginative people and active owners. From the Centre Party's point of view, it is important to facilitate more of these in a future business. If you want to do that, you have to pursue a policy that supports such a corporate culture. I am very pleased that the Workers' Party has gradually gained a more positive view of the yard support. For us who have been busy with good framework conditions for the maritime industries in general, I have to admit that it has not always been as easy to get the same understanding from the Labour Party in the government position. When the yard support is involved, there has been a clear change to the more positive in recent years. The maritime sector is a lack of enterprises and more active owners. If these are to play the role we expect, then one cannot, as a single party does, propose changing the divisional model to the worse for these companies, nor can these companies constantly produce their working capital in construction and production equipment as an object of unlimited tax ability. The Centre Party, through two budgetary rounds, has worked for stable conditions for enterprises with active owners and prevents proposals that would, in total, exacerbate the framework conditions of such enterprises. So the maritime industries have always been our priority, so we've seen a lot to go on, for example. the reimbursement scheme for seafarers, fishing-fleet contractors and the special rule of tax law in the case of the shipping industry. That's how we want to see things in context. For this reason, I am very pleased with the attitude that has been set out in this matter that we are discussing today, which supports the Minister of Industry's proposal for increased yard support, and the Government's comprehensive industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e417	I'm gonna be pretty short. As the Labour Party points out in its comment in the setting, we joined them in the budget setting to maintain the yard support. You should have a look at the framework conditions of your competitors. Otherwise, I refer you to Rita Tveiten's articles. I think I can agree with most of it, and therefore I do not intend to repeat the arguments. I just want to go into an area where I think the committee number is a little bit weak. The number of committees asks the Government to assess the possibilities of a late renewal of the vessel, as it has a high average age. The reason why I think the majority is weak is that this case has a past. Both in the budget setting and in the setting of Norwegian road and road traffic plans, the majority of the Committee on Transport – the opposition in the previous period including the centre parties – says that they are not satisfied with the pace of the renewal of the shuttle and criticise the workers' party government. We were in on it, too. The majority are asking for a plan for the renewal of the spring ferry for two years, based on the state of the ferry. Right after that, the central parties were given the government power. Now the order books for the shipyards are empty, and we can beat two flies in one taste: get the necessary renewal of the shuttle while giving assignments to the yard industry. It is therefore too weak when an evaluation is requested by the Committee. The Ministry of Transport has had two years to prepare an accelerated renewal plan, and the Minister of Industry should go to his colleague in the Ministry of Transport and ask for the plan to be implemented – because it must almost be assumed that it will start to be completed now, after two years with a central government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e426	At the time of the examination of the 1999 State Budget, the members of the Economic and Social Committee from the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Centre Party and the Left asked the Government to present an assessment of the situation in the shipbuilding industry. There were signs that the shipbuilding industry was in the process of getting into a difficult situation, due to changing markets and weak order entry as a consequence. There have been many good years in the industry, with an order intake in 1997 of DKK 20 billion – almost twice a year’s production. Several unfortunate factors have now been enabled. In addition to the overall overcapacity internationally, the crisis in Asia has also exacerbated negative developments. The situation in the oil industry, with the loss of orders for offshore vessels, is another reason. For the industry in this country, it is important that the framework conditions are as similar as possible to the framework conditions of those with which it is competing. Therefore, it is important in the emerging situation that the building grant be increased. The government is demonstrating action by addressing the situation in a separate case before the revised national budget. In this situation, it is important to show creativity and adaptability, both on the part of government and industry. The Norwegian fishing fleet has an average age of 23 years and needs renewal and modernisation. There is a need here, and after good years in large parts of the fishing industry, there are actors who are willing to invest in the construction of new vessels. Therefore, it is now important to consider measures that could lead to an increased rate of renewal in the fishing fleet. The framework for contractual grants should be increased as soon as possible. It must be better to use additional millions in grants when the option can be unemployment benefit. I believe that it is necessary to examine whether the EU directive is completely shut down in order to allow Norway to provide yard support for the construction of fishing boats for supply within the EEA area. If the conclusion is that this Directive does not allow such an extension of the yard-aid scheme, initiatives should be taken to amend the Directive. At the same time, Norway should examine the suspicion that some countries go beyond the guidelines provided by the EU Directives. The Norwegian ferry also has a very high average age. In the district of More and Romesdal, the average age is about 25 years. The oldest regular ferry is over 50 years old. In view of the situation of ferries and the yard industry, it is important to look at the possibility of the forced renewal of the ferry. One should specifically consider so-called development contracts. Forced construction of coastguard vessels and research ships must also be considered. This will bring good socio-economic benefits. One will support industrial activity and employment for a period of low order access, and one will be able to modernise fishing fleets, ferries and research vessels – without leading to pressure in the shipbuilding industry. Finally, I would like to stress the fact that the world’s leading shipbuilding clusters are located in the West. This is acute competence that needs to be put in place to preserve and further develop. Equal opportunities with competitors are important here. From this, the Left is very pleased that a clear majority, all parties except the Advance Party, are in favour of raising the rates of support to 9 and 4,5 pst, respectively. So in the end – since I see that I have some time left – I want to comment on the actual conditions when it comes to the need for funds to raise the rates. The Labour Party submits that in this case the amount proposed by the Workers' Party in the last year's budget procedure is the same as that proposed by the Workers' Party. That's not the case. The Labour Party proposed 125 million. kr. This is an increase of 250 million. kr. That is twice what the Labour Party proposed in the budget. In a tight budget like what we had to deal with before Christmas, I would like to be able to spend 125 million dollars, the center parties and probably other parties as well. kr for other things by substantiating the aid for shipbuilding. Another conclusion may be that if you want to have full employment in Norwegian shipyards, an order entry is required of approx. $8 billion per year. years, and one has to question when not enough money is allocated to pay out what the highest rates of aid are, is whether the Workers' Party in the State Budget was budgeted with a certain amount of freedom in the shipbuilding industry.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e454	Although the reduction in the rate of shipbuilding aid for 1998 and until now in 1999 is not the sole cause of the dramatic drought in the yard industry, poorer support schemes in Norway than in our competitors have done irretrievably harm. The responsibility for this rests heavily on the government parties, who, together with the Right and the Advance Party, against the votes of the Workers' Party and the SV, have adopted lower yard support than our competitors. This has obviously taken away our yard assignment they could otherwise have received. I would like to mention five issues which give rise to concern and which must have implications for the attitude and action of the Storting against the shipbuilding industry. 1st@item: inlistbox The shipping industry’s industry association, TBL, states that contracts were signed in 1997 for EUR 15.7 billion officially and only DKK 3.9 billion in 1998. This is the deciduous lowest number since 1992.2. And perhaps as serious as that: 1996 figures show that profit margins are such that without the same level of support as the competitor countries, the 20 largest yards in total would have a deficit instead of a small profit. This shows that full order books are not a guarantee of necessary profitability. Aid reduction of 2 pst means that the yard to compensate for this need to increase efficiency by 6-7 pst.3. 22 yards will have delivered their last new buildings by the end of 1999 and several of these will have empty order books much earlier. The seriousness of this is underlined by the fact that the industry itself claims that, normally, new contracts must be concluded at least 12 months before the last delivery in order to maintain full employment.4. Very low new orders in the petroleum sector have a negative impact on the shipbuilding industry in general.5. Other economic competitive elements operate in Norwegian disfavor. Examples include: animal financing through high interest rates, more expensive building loan financing in Norway than in the competitors’ economic crisis in the East, which has strengthened the competitiveness of this region and its unbridled subsidising situation in othercompetitor countries. If we take care of ourselves wisely, the paint industry can survive well. We have a decisive competitive advantage. Our yard industry builds the world's most advanced and high-tech ships. This is possible because we have an almost complete environment of subcontractors. These are suppliers and manufacturers who, through the best engineering competence and production methods, deliver almost all components to a ship with the highest quality and punctual delivery. This is crucial. The Norwegian shipbuilding industry is high-tech and gives us the opportunity to have a particularly high level of equipment on ships. This industry is incredibly important for Norway and too many districts. It's a natural district industry. The paint industry in my county, More and Romesdal, stands for approx. 43 pst. of its total turnover in the yard industry, and Hordaland, Sør-Trøndelag and Sogn and Fjordane have a share of 12-13 pst. Each. This underlines the importance of this industry, represented by key enterprises in many communities, which have very significant ring-effects. Employees represent a level of knowledge that has been greatly underestimated. Now we must protect this knowledge-based industry for a time that seems very heavy. In addition to getting the yard back at the right level, we must, as the majority of the trade committee also points out, delaying the renewal of ferries increasing the rate of renewal of fishing fleetsforcing the construction of a new marine research vessel In choosing who will build the new frigates of the Defense, the government must pay attention to what gives the highest employment impact for the Norwegian shipyard industry, including the need to maintain, inter alia, the defence. Norwegian engineering skills, at a time when the yards seem to have problems.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e513	The shipbuilding industry is facing considerable problems. This isn't the first time, and will certainly not be the last time either. This industry has paid particular attention to the authorities, and billions are allocated year after year to the government budget in order to secure jobs and thus employment in industry. The reason for this is two-part. Firstly, the importance of the industry in a number of coastal communities and, secondly, the massive subsidisation around the world means that construction tasks can be difficult to achieve without subsidising also from the Norwegian side. The proposed increase in the rates, for which there is a majority in the Storting, will improve the possibilities for agencies to have new orders in a market that at least has to be said to be something pending. I have noted the Committee's opinions on possible measures, and I have also received from the industry itself and other interested parties a number of proposals for action to be taken. A number of measures are being taken to support public building projects, as well as issues related to the frigate project. When it comes to rescheduling projects, I would like to refer to my answer in the Questionnaire on March 3rd this year to questions from the representative of Bekkemel Orheim. In this respect it appeared, among other things: that the Government is considering such proposals in the context of budgetary work, but that it is not now time to address them further. As regards the construction of fishing boats, I would like to point out that the pace of the renewal of the fishing fleet needs to be assessed in terms of fisheries policy and as part of the budgetary process. We are now looking at what can possibly be done to facilitate the financing of exports of ships, as well as what measures may be relevant to stimulate development measures in the shipbuilding industry itself. However, I would like to stress that in such assessments, we must constantly bear in mind the obligations we have assumed through international agreements, which set limits on what can be implemented by support measures, such as: in the case of the construction of fishing boats for supply to the EEA territory, where yard support is not permitted. In this context, I would like to highlight in particular the very limited opportunities we have to manage assignments to Norwegian shipyards. Finally, I would just like to reiterate that the yard industry has my full attention and that of the Government, but also that possible measures towards this industry need to be considered in a broader economic and budgetary context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e534	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e537	There has been no lack of warnings both in the context of the 1998 budget and the 1999 budget on what could happen to the employment situation if we did not provide our shipyards with the same competitive opportunities as they are to compete with. Clear warnings came from the entire maritime environment, from the shipyards around the coast, from the industry subcontracting to the shipbuilding industry, and from both employers’ and employees’ organisations in common, on the consequences of giving Norwegian shipyards worse competitive conditions than they would compete with. It reminds me a little bit that as we approach Easter, we are still looking at the television presentation of the mountain white rules, where we see how it can be if you don't take seriously the warnings made by experienced mountain people – or in this case the many warnings that came from experienced professionals about the consequences of the policy adopted by the Government, with the support of a majority in the United Kingdom. This includes, among other things: The working party now pointed to some possibilities of trying to get a positive attitude into this industry again, and the State Council Sponheim even mentioned some of them now. Then my question is: will the Council of State now consider some of the good proposals at the same time as we are examining the revised budget, or does the Council of State Sponheim still want to appear in the same way as the well-known Severin Sovereign, as when he found that it went wrong, said that this was unsavory?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e546	Yes, last year was full of many kinds of warnings, and the warnings that struck most heavily against both the Government and the other political environment, and that not least financial politicians Dag Terje Andersen also heard, were the danger of overheating in the Norwegian economy and what we experienced on the interest side. It also marked Norwegian shipyards. The cost picture that exacerbated the competition situation of Norwegian shipyards in the last year is not least linked to both the wage settlement last year and the interest rate development we experienced, which resulted in many Norwegian yards having a significantly higher price of their foreign capital than those they competed with elsewhere in Europe. And then we were able to get through a budget that we now see is the basis for a falling interest rate. That's one important thing. Now it is also possible for us to promote a proposal for increased yard support with funding of funds that were actually not used last year, and which lie in these funds that are built up over the year for payment when the boats are finished, without, in that way, having received any reactions from the markets that do not allow interest to continue to be reduced. So now we're in a situation where it's possible to increase the yard support, while at the same time we're in a development where we can bring interest down. Both parts obviously strengthen the competitiveness of the yards as they now calculate to win out contracts. I also think it is an important point to find that for this whole maritime cluster we have in Norway, it is quite essential to get assignments to Norwegian shipyards that we have Norwegian decision makers and thus Norwegian head office for Norwegian shipping companies. Therefore, the tax system we have for Norwegian shipowners is crucial for obtaining Norwegian decisions, which is an important basis for the Norwegian shipyards’ missions. Then I can assure you that these views are of the industry, including: TBL, has on a number of measures, and I have seen at a press conference that the Workers' Party has read and has a policy for, is also to be assessed in the Government. We come back in the revised national budget with what we see able to advance within a tight budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e557	After all, we have given commendation to the State Council, Sponheim, because he has turned around in time – it is also a mountain sweat rule that it is important to bring with him. But the background for my questioning to the Council of State now is that of the representative from More and Romesdal on the budgeting around changes in the yard support. The background for the Workers' Party to propose 125 million. kr on the current year's budget, was a question to the Ministry about what was going on to raise its stakes to the level to which it is being raised today. We added 125 million. kr on the current year's budget. Then the representative from More and Romesdal says that the government party has now added 250 million. kr. Then I have to ask the Council of State if this is right. So that's how I read St. prp. No 35, indicates one needs 250 million. to increase the 1999 fund. Then you say that one has money left on the 1998 fund, which makes it unnecessary to have additional permissions. I'm asking the Council of State to clarify this, because if it is, one of them has been on an additional 250 million. NOK, or an additional cost of SEK 250 million. kr on the current year's budget, it should have been written in a way that allowed us to find it again in the proposition and in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e566	First, to this, to turn in time. In the economy, it is often about finding the right time – timing is important. I would like to stress that we are now able to increase the rates of yard subsidies, while at the same time we have an overall fiscal arrangement that makes interest rates go down. That's why I think we have to be able to say that it's a good time to do it. And if I'm going to return this by turning it around in time, we might be able to make a real big deal today by saying that the Workers' Party had also turned around in the view of the shipowner's cavalry, and thus secured the decision-making basis of the Norwegian head office, which I think is important in order to secure the assignment to the Norwegian yard in the future. There is no doubt that Norwegian shipowners who have their head office in Norway, as part of a maritime cluster here in the country that is entirely genuine in the world context, are engaged in taking on the social responsibility they have when they have had good framework conditions, to also order ships in Norway. They have the full right to do so without falling under the same public procurement rules within the EEA legislation of the Norwegian authorities. So for budgeting. This is a rule-driven arrangement. And if the Norwegian yard receives a commission – and we hope they will – in the order of NOK 8-10 billion, which is full capacity utilization, it will mean a figure in the order of approximately SEK 750 million, as it also says in the vote. We're going to hope that's going to be the situation. That's the money the state has to pay out, anyway. When we summed up last year, which unfortunately gave too bad contracts, as opposed to the previous year, which sold in twice the Norwegian capacity, there was so much money left on the 1998 scheme that we would actually be able to, in addition to the well over 500 million. kr that was granted for the current year, to cover the full amount of the mandate to Norwegian yards on provisions made on the basis of the budget figures for the previous year. We're going to hope that's the situation, and that we don't have to give other money to people who get unemployed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e573	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e576	When Stortinget deals with the matter of support for the shipbuilding industry, many of us clearly believe that it is high time. And I have a feeling that this case is about more than yard support. This could be the battle for the future of Norwegian shipyards. For us who live in states where the yard industry is a major and important part of our business life, impatience has been great. So we're going to hope that late in this context is better than never. When, as early as December 1997, the Workers' Party proposed to increase the rates from 7 to 9 pst., it was impossible to get a majority for it. The signals from the yard industry have been clear for a long time, and it has been many months since the first lay-off warnings were sent out. The shipbuilding industry has strong and deep roots in Norwegian business, and it represents a culture and competence that we have a great responsibility to care for. If we do not take responsibility for this industry, we may lose the high level of competence we have, and this may lead to enormous consequences for the future of the shipbuilding industry. When the bet on the Tangen Verft is empty, it has major consequences far beyond the municipality. There can be no doubt that the size of the yard aid in recent years has been an uncertainty factor for the industry. We have to make sure that our shipyards have the opportunity to compete on the construction of ships with countries that we know have far better subsidy schemes than what we have. I am very pleased that the majority will now support the Workers' Party in increasing the rates of construction subsidies to the shipbuilding industry from 7 p.m. to 9 pst. Only the Progress Party has a cynical assessment of these industrial workplaces and does not want to participate in the decision. But, as the representative Tveiten was inside his post, 9 pst. grants alone are not enough to fill the order books. Therefore, I believe it is essential that the Committee has pointed out in such clear comments a number of measures that can improve the situation of Norwegian shipyards, hopefully both in the shorter and longer term. Fortunately, the majority have asked the Government to pay particular attention to Norwegian shipyards when deciding who will build the new frigates of Defense. It is hoped that the Government will take into account the serious situation in the yard industry and that on that basis it will take into account what the majority has wanted. It's not keeping a good eye on Sponheim's state council. It is well known that we have a shuttle that is old and worn. And it is very positive that the Committee asks for the maintenance of the construction of ferries. This is good transport policy. In addition, it points to the need in the fishing fleet and to ensure the construction of a new research vessel. These and several measures have been mentioned in the case. This must mean that we have the means to take action when the political will is present. The Labour Party is very concerned about the future of the shipbuilding industry, and that is why we are concerned that we must be offensive to this industry. With the decision being made here and with the strong leadership in this case, it is my hope that optimism will again be created in the yard industry.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e602	I am pleased to note first that the Council of State Sponheim agreed with me that some additional budgeting when it comes to aid for the shipyard, has not found its place tonight, nor is it going to find a place. So then probably this representative from More and Romsdal is wrong. But to the discussion we have today, I would say that the shipyards have been watered down by having a difficult competitive situation, and they have been watered down with conversion. Although this industry has had some good years now, it is – and it will be – in a difficult situation this year. And don't be a big fortune teller to see what progress can be made when the order books are about to empty: permits and cancellations. The government points out that the shipbuilding industry itself has the primary responsibility to ensure competitiveness in the industry. This industry, which is otherwise the industry, depends on the fact that the conditions of competition are similar to those of the conditions of competition with which they are to compete. Our industry has not had such framework conditions in the last few years. We've had high interest rates and a cost development that's been far higher than in the competing countries. In addition, the Government made proposals for increased taxes and taxes on business, which would increase the distance between our industry and the industry of competitors. The industry's framework conditions cannot be changed because the government is not in a position to discharge its responsibilities. Therefore, the overall framework conditions for an industry are important. Therefore, in the industry we are talking about today, we must have the same level of support as the countries with which we compete in the European Union. No one from the Labour Party has disclaimed the responsibility for reducing the level of support for interest when the order books were as full as they were two years ago. But then we have also said that when we see a situation ahead of us where the order books become emptyer, where unemployment throughout this industry is increasing, where the unemployment in oil-related business is increasing, we are forced to change the support schemes so that they can be consistent with those with which we compete. So we've suggested once again increasing the interest rate support. Even if the Minister of Finance said in question yesterday that the unemployment rate is not higher than it was last year, and it's all the same, we know it's different in different industries. And we can't sit there and watch that happen with our eyes open to the whole of the West, with the need we have to build ships and not least to take care of the skills and jobs that are there. The employment situation is very serious in the shipbuilding industry and in the mechanical industry as a whole. It has also been pointed out that this industry is likely to be demolished, and one can transfer the jobs that are there to other professions. It's not that easy to do at any rate. In addition to a missing competence, one must be re-trained. And then we know that this government hasn't proposed so much money when it comes to labour market measures that are really needed, so here we can get into a difficult situation on that front, too, when it comes to labour market measures, in the years that come. But I've said before that it's no shame to turn around, and everyone should turn around if they think it's right to do it. In this situation, I am at least happy that there is a majority in the Stortinget that are now involved in changing the interest rate support, so that one can get an interest rate support that is at the level of the interest rate support for the ones we are competing with. And then I understood that the council was very busy talking about the reindeer taxing for some reason today. I won't be fooled into discussing it tonight. I'm glad that the decision taken tonight is such that at least one can get more orders in the shipping industry, even if I'm a little doubtful as to whether it's going to be very much increased, because it's too late – we've said that before, and we repeat that. But anyway, it's good that it comes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e621	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e624	Like all other speakers, apart from those from the Progress Party, I must join in the joy of raising the yard support to a level similar to that of the European Union. I must also say that it has been a joyous experience to sit in the hall and hear that the Workers' Party has actually learned quite well how dangerous it is to change the framework conditions and create uncertainty for a competitive industry. For the Workers' Party, there have been masters in creating uncertainty at all stages of maritime industry, both in terms of seafarers, shipowners, and yards — at all stages. So I am very pleased that the Workers' Party has learned, and I assume that in the future – at least as far as the largest opposition party is concerned – Norwegian business will have predictable framework conditions and a level playing field with our competitors in Europe. Because that's what's the key here. Our business life is competitive, but the starting point must be the same, national framework conditions must be the same. And when we compete with EU countries, our framework conditions must be equal to the EU framework conditions. It has been pointed out today that in the situation that has arisen, with empty coastal order books, the time has come to invest heavily in investments controlled by the State, not least in ferry operations. It is a good counter-cyclical policy for the state to step in with its investments in low-activity periods and to keep a little more from the market when the wheels go too full. I would like to point out that in the renewal of our old ferry, two gas-powered ferries have been requested. They shall be inserted in the connection of the Bokenfjord, which is one of the connections that are constantly being closed because the ferry connection breaks down. It really means that we have a closed highway in an area of the country where the value creation is high. So I hope that the Minister of Economic Affairs will work well with the Ministry of the Environment, with the Ministry of Transport and with all the related departments so that we can get ahead with the renewal of the shuttle and realise the environmentally friendly measures that are in fact several times confirmed by the Storting's willingness to invest in gas-fuelled ferries. I hope we get to do something about it now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e636	I am pleased that the Government and the majority of the Committee are in favour of increasing the rates of construction grants to the yards to the same level as they are in the EU today. However, I am not pleased that there is a lot of time and effort to figure out and attribute blame to who has reduced and not reduced. What is a reality is, when you know the industry from the inside, that this industry has experienced alternating grant schemes over a long period of time and little predictability. The shipbuilding industry, as has already been mentioned, is highly competitive and cyclical. It is therefore a question of predictability and a level playing field. Industry has not had good years in recent years, at least not if you look at the accounting figures. I would also like to mention that in several other shipbuilding countries, in addition to the framework conditions we are dealing with today, there are forms of grants that are not to be shared by Norwegian shipyards. It is therefore essential for the Council of State to follow up its dialogue with industry and to maintain this contact closely in the days ahead. I will be allowed to draw attention to the fact that today there is a very large proportion of all hulls to Norwegian fishing vessels being built abroad. Furthermore, a significant number of fishing vessels are also being built abroad. I think it is absolutely necessary to look at the conditions of subsidy schemes that apply to Norwegian fishing vessels today, so that we are able to encourage Norwegian fishing boat owners to build their ships at Norwegian shipyards. Our fishing fleet is – as already mentioned – old, and it affects both safety and catch quality. Modern fishing vessels are also highly favoured by the environment. The equipment industry has been mentioned and without a viable yard industry, the equipment industry will also lack the significant potential to develop both technically and in the market. The situation today is that you export know-how and skills by selling out equipment. This competence is then exhausted from the Norwegian shipyard industry, which is badly in need of it. I think it is good that we now have a system of equal conditions of support, but I would also ask the Council of State to follow this closely, so that one is able to comply with the conditions of competition that I have already mentioned, which are varied in many countries.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e654	My good colleague at Møre-benken's representative Jørgen Holte has a strange argument about the Workers' Party's position on the shipyard support. We have voted in favour of 9 pst. and 4,5 pst. and not, as the representative suggested, anything else. A few years ago, the representative Holte’s favourite expression was the ‘rope government in place’. Although the representatives of the government parties now need, and I understand that, to present it as if the government very much wanted to come to the Stortinget with a case of high-end shipyard support, it was such that the Workers' Party in the budget procedure last autumn and around Christmas times – both before and after – strongly pointed out the order drought that was now going on in the industry. The Workers' Party asked the Government to take the initiative. The Government announced measures in relation to the revised national budget. We showed that the need was now and not then. After pressure – towing – it has happened that the government council has come to Stortinget with a good thing that we now stand together about, all as close as the Progress Party. That's not exactly what Frøiland's representative said, that it's better late than never. With regard to the shipyards and the paint industry, this principle is very harmful. Every day can give lost contracts to the industry, and may have done so. So short to also my good colleague on the Mure bench, the representative of Kongshaug. It may well be clear – but Stortinget did not grant 250 million. Now kr. These funds are, of course, 50 million unused from 1995 and 1996. DKK and under-use in 1998 of approx. 200 million. kr – and it is a fund for 1999 of 507.5 million. kr. Then it remains that the Workers' Party as the only party – I reserve the right to SV – has actually proposed 125 million. NOK in addition to the 757.5 million. kr, for which these numbers I now did the trick, amount to. But the important thing is not these numbers, but the willingness to use a support rate of 9 pst. insteadfor 7 pst. That willingness obviously didn't have the government parties, but they have it now, and it's a pleasure that we can now meet, and in that way I join the Minister of Industry's joy over a great coalition, at least at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e667	Much of the energy in the posts towards the end carries a bid that you are concerned with the history, and it is in politics that it is not entirely without interest either. But I stunned when the former State Councillor Andersen, who himself was part of a government that proposed a reduction in the yard support from 9 to 4.5 p.m., talked about Severin Severen and that there was no shame in turning around. I was in doubt if it was a mirror he was standing and looking in. And a former government colleague in the same government, Frøiland, followed up. But at least it is a fact that, throughout the 1990s, reductions in yard support have been proposed by various governments. There is no doubt about this. However, it has stranded in Stortinget, because the Stortinget wanted to keep the yard support largely like the one that's been in the hands of our competitors. Having said that, I have to say that these workers' party representatives are relatively selective in the selection of what is important for the maritime sector, and there is no doubt that it is not enough to have a yard support of 9 pst. in order for Norway to maintain its leading position in the world as regards the maritime cluster of which we hold. I have to give the Council of State the right to say that what is important is that we have tax rules that allow us to keep Norwegian shipowners, that we have a reimbursement system for seafarers that makes our seafarers competitive and capable of manning these ships that are built in Norwegian shipyards, and run by Norwegian shipowners, from Norway. Now it's not up to a case rapporteur to be a judge in a battle for history in the 1990s as to what has been done and not done to maintain this position for the maritime sector, but I don't think I'm doing any great wrong if I end up saying that as far as yard support is concerned, it's probably 0-0.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e676	The President then records that there is also the end of the debate on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2570]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e684	The size then goes to voting on the case no. 1 – 5 on today’s map.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e702	During the debate Siri Frost Sterri put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right. The proposer has subsequently made the proposal for a transmission proposal and the introduction is amended accordingly. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended that the Government in the context of the revised budget increase the amount of humanitarian aid allocated to North-West Russia by 50 million. krones. The appropriations shall be in addition to the 100 million. krona The Government has already proposed to the neighbourhoods.» The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e755	The President assumes that the Progress Party will vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e768	During the debate, Erik Solheim put forward two proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposals are distributed in the seats of the representatives. That will give rise to explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e773	Based on the signals that came earlier today, not least from Prime Minister Bondevik, we want to make proposal No. 2 to a transmission proposal. But because we didn't get such signals on proposal no. 1, on our part, we want it to be taken up to the point of reality.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e778	I would like to refer to the debate we have had before today, first of all to the speech made by parliamentary leader Thorbjørn Jagland, and also to other speakers from the Workers' Party, and to show that we want to continue working on disarmament of nuclear weapons after the summit with a view to gradually building up the nuclear arsenal...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e783	The President asks that we now not go into a debate, but give an explanation of vote, as little as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e786	I would therefore recommend that the representatives of the Labour Party vote against proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e791	Several have not asked for the floor for an explanation of vote. Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party, is transformed into a transmission proposal, and is reworded in the introduction. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended to the Government to work towards NATO setting the same requirements for Turkey for the follow-up of human rights conventions and political control with military forces as for new Member States.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party, is worded as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to work towards the resolution by NATO of the threat of the first use of nuclear weapons in the further planning of defence.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e811	The President will propose that the statement by the Prime Minister at the Stortinget meeting on 18 March 1999 on issues related to the NATO Summit in Washington be annexed to the Protocol on 23 and 25 April 1999. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e818	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Hedstrom, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Ansgar Gabrielsen on behalf of the Right Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to appoint a privatisation commission with a mandate to propose a reduction of State business exposure and to plan the practical implementation of the transfer of ownership interests to the Fund and the population, as well as sales to private individuals. The Privatisation Commission should consist of at least 1/3 representations from the business community and consultants from international companies with special competence in the privatisation of State activities.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e841	It is then voted on the proposal from the Right: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit, in the context of the submission of the State budget for 2000, a degressive plan for the state’s interests in the Norwegian business community. The proposal should include a decommissioning plan for all enterprises in which the State holds interests, where appropriate an assessment of the specific considerations that should remain state ownership.The President assumes that the Progress Party will now vote in a subsidiary way in favour of the proposal of the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e873	The President assumes that the Progress Party will vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-2.ana.ud2455e889	There is no record.
