ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e58	Two permit applications are available: from the delegation of the European Parliament to the EFTA Parliamentary Committee and the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee, signed by the chairperson of the delegation, from the European Parliament’s representative Haakon Blankenborg on leave on 6 and 7 December of the representatives of Carl I. Hagen, Gunn Karin Gjul, Morten Lund, Brother Yngve Rahm, Siri Frost Sterri and Haakon Blankenborg from the representative of Ivar Østberg on sickness leave from 6 December until further notice These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first representative of the South-Trøndelag County, Tore Nordseth, there is an application to be exempted from meeting under the representative Gunn Karin Gjul's leave on 6 and 7 December, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Uppland County: Kjell Ivar FossnesFor Oslo: Sissel DagsletFor Telemark County: Vivian Knarvik BuggeFor Troms County: Ruth StenersenFor South Trondelag County: No Balstad, Bjørg Brushet and Michael Momyr3. Michael Momyr is elected to the Lamentations for the time he meets the representative Siri Frost Sterri.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e143	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e148	I suggest Bjarne Håkon Hanssen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e153	Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting. At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that matters be dealt with as follows: 1 to 3 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e185	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for the main speakers from each political group as well as for members of the Government be set at 10 minutes and that the other speakers be given 5 minutes' speaking time. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with a response after the speeches of the main speakers from each party group and after contributions from members of the Government. [[Presidents]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e196	Solidarity can be defined as a willingness to distribute so as to achieve freedom and equality between people. It involves allocating resources in a way that ensures that those who are the worst are lifted up. But it also means democratic rules of play and international driving rules for economic relations that ensure the development and value creation of individual societies. Targeted assistance must be seen in the context of the development strategy of the beneficiary countries and with international trade and political governance and leadership on global economic issues. It is fairly exactly three and a half years since the Stortinget discussed Norwegian policy principles and guidelines for developing countries. An important conclusion in Innst. S. No 229 for 1995-96, and in the subsequent major debate, it was precisely that aid should be seen in a broader North-South context, in particular international economic, trade and debt-related conditions, as well as that our policy towards developing countries must be an integral part of a comprehensive Norwegian foreign policy. This has been the basis of the Northern-South policy of the Government. However, much has happened in the future, both in Norwegian aid policy and in multilateral organisations responsible for development and humanitarian aid. Equally important is the fact that there has been a need shift with regard to assistance in the world community. There is no limit in the world, for example. a greater difference in living standards than the border between Norway and Russia. While the economic growth of Africa in both 1998 and 1999, according to the Council of State, will exceed population growth, some countries in the former Soviet Union have experienced a decline in living standards that is unique in history. In Asia, the situation is complex. The financial crisis has thrown millions of people into poverty. But at the same time, the opportunities for rehabilitation and new growth seem to be good. On this basis, the Committee felt the need to examine more thoroughly the Council's policy of state development than simply by taking a debate. Therefore, the presentation was sent to the Committee, where there is broad agreement on the main challenges and instruments and on how some issues should be addressed further. Only the Progress Party is fully on the sidelines of the development policy debate. It does not discuss the level of Norwegian development assistance. Let me therefore state that the Labour Party in its programme has a goal of gradually increasing ODA-approved assistance to 1 pst. of GNI. With the budgetary agreement between the Labour Party and the Government Parties now in the autumn, Norway is set at 0.89 p.m. for the next year. With the challenges associated with poverty and development needs in regions outside the ODA-approved assistance area, it may be worth considering over and over again. We have e.g. an unnatural ODA border in the middle of an area of the Caucasus: North and South Ossetia. And while Georgia is within the ODA criteria, Russia is outside. In the OSCE ODA area, more countries are at the same income level as Zimbabwe and lower than Botswana. Examples of this are Azerbaijan and Turkmenistan. The special feature of these countries is the sharp fall in standard of living. Living standards fall is not something we've been used to dealing with. This is e.g. societies with a high level of education that have previously had social security networks. Now parts of the area of bottomless distress are being affected. The majority of the Committee underlines the need for a wide-ranging debate on development cooperation and supports the Government's efforts to improve international coordination of assistance. The World Bank's framework for an overall framework for assistance in each country, the so-called Comprehensive Development Framework (CDF), must be followed up. This implies a common long-term development strategy for all domestic and foreign actors. More thorough country analyses must be based on a stronger regional approach, since several of the underlying conditions are regionally as much as they are national. In some cases, there may also be political conditions in the recipient countries that limit the scope for effective assistance. On the basis of the political and military situation in particular: Eritrea, Ethiopia and Zimbabwe may be justified in opening up alternative uses of land allocations, possibly by transferring funds to regional allocations. This ensures predictability, long-termity and poverty orientation, while politicising assistance by questioning the regime. I would also like to point out that the representative of Solheim on several occasions, among others: in an inter-pell debate on Burma, has strongly advocated such an aid policy, i.e. the politicisation of aid. It is also important that the individual actors in the aid work are seen within a comprehensive Norwegian strategy for developing countries. The Committee therefore asks the Government to consider examining the impact of the assistance provided by private organisations, both humanitarian and development projects. What the Committee may have worked hard on is the Government’s strategy for industrial development in the south. It is important to identify business as an actor in an overall development strategy, in close cooperation with industry and the social partners. Based on the strategy, the needs of developing industries and investment in developing countries, the role of the Norwegian business community and the process currently taking place between the actors in the Forum for the Development of Enterprise in the South, the Committee calls on the majority to submit the nutrition strategy to the EEA for treatment once the investigation and evaluation have been completed. I would ask the Council of State to confirm that the strategy is really being presented to the Stortinget. Until the issue is dealt with by the Storting, existing business schemes should not be closed down without better arrangements allowing Norwegian business to invest in developing countries. In particular, the mixed-credit scheme shall be evaluated. In my opinion, the government should also not uncritically make further decoupling before the landfill. In general, the number of committees expresses the fact that pushing forward the lowest offer in the context of aid may impair both the quality of the aid and, in particular, the soft values of development policy. There is therefore a need to see decoupling also in the context of the other countries, such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. The OECD countries. When, after 20 years, the Norwegian fishing industry loses contracts, without having been contacted in advance, and the same contracts go to a subsidised Canadian company, it hardly serves the interests of the developing countries. Let me add that in order for investment in enterprises in developing countries to have some effect, the same countries need to be guaranteed market access for their products on a broad basis, i.e. for a wide range of goods, and with equivalent access to the world trading system. Isolation has proved to be the path to poverty, no matter what some groups may think. Economic interrelationship, infrastructure, education and skills are currently the path to increasing living standards, health, development and equality. I also refer to the debate last Thursday on the World Trade Organisation. I would also like to point out that the Committee is asking for the so-called auctioning principle for imports of meat to be submitted to the Stortinget for treatment as part of the strategy for the development of nutrition in the south. The majority welcome the initiative to increase the emphasis on democracy, institution building, openness and publicity – Transparency International, to put it another way – and the fight against corruption. There is a close link between economic development and a well-functioning public sector. Finally, the majority point to global shared interests in reducing poverty and ensuring sustainable growth and development. Many of today’s global challenges — violent conflicts, large population migrations, human rights violations, international crime, terrorism, drug trafficking, nature robbery and a strong population growth — are rooted in underdevelopment, poverty and social disparities. Combating poverty is therefore also an important contribution to global stability and security.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e234	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e237	The politicisation of the u-help to undermine totalitarian regimes may initially appear to be amissable. But does the representative Nybakk see any problems in politicizing the U-help with regard to supporting some parties or some fractions internally in the parties? For this purpose, in a long-term perspective, the parties that will govern the respective countries in the future may be affected. Another question is: What policy should the parties and groupings that receive public Norwegian support be based on – a social democratic policy or another?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e242	In the position we adopted three and a half years ago, Norway has identified priority countries as recipients of our assistance. We also have clear priorities in terms of poverty orientation and target groups. Among other things, education and health have been chiseled out as priority areas and now also a business strategy for development and investment in the south. What matters to us, and what the majority of the committee points out, is that it can be so sometimes that the regime in one of the priority co-operation countries has a policy, among other things. Warfare with neighbouring countries, which may be problematic in driving an active country to land-cooperation. It will also be the case if we get a growing violation of human rights in such a country. This, of course, is not about supporting individual parties. In that case, it would be the task of private organisations. At the same time, cutting aid at short notice or in the middle of a long-term development programme could have a serious impact on the groups receiving it and on the communities to develop on the basis of a project. For this reason, it must be possible to turn such a commitment from land to regional appropriations. This means, of course, that we do not take a position on the policy. Having said that, it is also clear that, although we are very responsive to the individual countries receiving assistance, they have to decide much of what is going to happen, we have to expect a development strategy to be implemented in the country of destination. I would also like to point out what I said about coordination, the coordination of assistance within each country between both internal actors and external actors.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e249	This is the first time in any case that I have been involved in making a statement from a Council of State in this way to a debate in plenary in the Stortinge after prior examination in the Trade Union Committee. It's been a very interesting process. In fact, I believe that such treatment makes it possible to express more precisely where the Storting stands together on important policy areas in the area we are now debating, namely aid, and where the opinions differ. It is very positive that in this position there is such a degree of convergence in key policy decisions relating to this field. I also think it's right to say that the opinions between the parties may be somewhat more nuanced than what actually emerges from the comments. This is probably part of a realistic assessment of the political reality we are facing. But it is not a shadow of the fact that it has been possible in the Foreign Affairs Committee and, in other words, in the United Kingdom to come up with a comprehensive formulation in a number of important fields. Of course, one of those fields is about the size of the assistance. Now, of course, the Storting adopts the budget year after year and does not commit itself to this. But there is an important measure in the government's aid policy that it would be interesting to hear the Workers' Party's point of view, and that is the six-year escalation plan that the Government has now agreed to, in order to get the assistance up to 1 pst. GDP. It is demanding, especially when GDP is rising rapidly. But I hope that Marit Nybakk on behalf of the Workers' Party can confirm that they will be able to support the escalation plan based on the programme adopted by the Workers' Party. I would like to challenge Marit Nybakk on this question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e254	Let me first say that I agree with what the representative Steensnæs said about the broad agreement on Norwegian aid – and there is in particular an agreement between the Workers' Party, the government parties and the SV – that we have seen over the last few years on precisely development policy strategies. I am also pleased that we have been able to come up with almost unanimous formulations – I then disregard the Progress Party, which, as I also said in my article, has put itself completely on the sideline – and that we have been able to agree on some complex contexts and challenges that are not quite easy to deal with in the future, but as we know we are going to be able to deal with. As for the size of the assistance, I said in my post that the Workers' Party in its programme has underlined that our goal is to get up to 1 pst. of gross national income. I find no reason to postpone this goal, but it is within our principle and work programme that we should get up to 1 pst. of gross national income. I would also like to stress that the quality of aid and its direction is as important as the absolute percentage calculation for development projects, and that we have an effect on aid policy, which we see as having an impact on individual developing countries, that we are getting growth in business, that we are getting growth in agriculture, that we are getting education, that we are getting health up, that we are achieving the objectives we have set ourselves in the areas where Norwegian aid policy, along with changes in the world's trading system in debt settlements, etc., can lead to that in those countries that are still under development, we can ensure a better everyday life for individual men and women.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e263	Let me first say that the Right can join most of what Marit Nybakk said in his post. But she suggested from the very beginning that the Workers' Party is firmly committed to the objective that the aid should be 1 pst. of GNI in the case of ODA-approved assistance. I noticed, however, that she would not readily confirm that they were in the time-limited escalation plan of the Government. It will be well known that the Right believes that setting a target specified as part of GNI is starting at the wrong end. It may work against its intention to streamline and facilitate the more performance-oriented management of aid funds. Therefore, there are interesting signals related to the measure 1 pst. who now came in the previous reply to Steensnæs. I understood Marit Nybakk correctly, she also believed that a quality assessment of the assistance itself would be as important as the percentage. I think this is interesting and new tones from the Workers' Party, and I would simply like to ask what the consequences of this are, and what it will mean for the Workers' Party, not least in terms of funding for future assistance in terms of our neighbourhoods. I noticed that Marit Nybakk was relatively critical of the limits set today for ODA-approved assistance. She herself framed a number of rural areas in our neighbourhoods with great poverty, which she thought should be assessed in a new demarcation. We are therefore keen on hearing from the Labour Party what consequences this could have for aid to our neighbourhoods.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e272	It is not unproblematic that in our neighborhood, in our neighbourhoods, we now have people living in extreme distress. It is not unproblematic that we are facing areas of the Caucasus in Central Asia that are at the intersection of ODA-approved assistance and non-ODA-approved assistance, where we have had a fall in living standards that may be quite unique in history. We have also not been used to dealing with this with cases of standard of living. What also characterizes this area is that those who live there actually have a very high level of education. They've been used to a welfare state with social security networks. All of this is torn away. These are challenges that Norwegian and other European assistance will have to deal with in some way, and I do not overlook the fact that we should have a discussion about where the boundaries should go between ODA-approved assistance and non-ODA-approved assistance. How we will deal with this in relation to the target of 1 pst, we need to discuss further. It will be the parties that, in the context of programmes and national meetings, have to take a discussion on all these things. What is certain is that the changes in the needs of the world society are such that we cannot deal with aid policy as if the world were static either. There's an infinite need for assistance in Africa, and let's agree on that, but we're not going to close our eyes to what's happening in our neighbourhoods, which I think is one of our most important responsibilities. It is also the responsibility of the European Union and other European countries.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e279	I agree with almost everything Marit Nybakk said, and will also give her honor for having been neat and proper and made a sensible setting on behalf of the committee at this point. But since this is a line, we have to deal with what there's some disagreement about. One of the most obvious things to say is that it's more important how you spend the money than how much money you spend. That's what I heard Steensnæs said, and Marit Nybakk said something similar, and something more of course there's no reason to say. But if that's how we think we're spending the money in a reasonable way, it has to be almost as obvious that it would make sense to spend more of them. It's only if there's uncertainty about the money we spend, is spent in a reasonable way, that there might be uncertainty about whether it makes sense to spend more. So unless this is a limitless self-criticism of the policy that has been pursued in the area of aid, it must be obvious that it would be wise to spend more money on aid than we are doing now. The only substantive argument that has been made in the debate on why we could not use more, that is, why we simply could not achieve the goal of the central parties, the Labour Party and the SV on 1 pst, is that it could contribute to pressure trends in the Norwegian economy because we spend too much money internally in Norway. But there are simple cures against it, because it is entirely possible to use the money so that not as much as a single ear comes back to the Norwegian economy. If we want to avoid any Nordics ever being employed for this money, or if we use a single penny to buy a product from Norway, we can manage to get it. It is possible to take this money in such a way that there is no objection to it. Now we once thought we had a four-year plan for escalating. Now this plan has actually become an eight-year plan based on the one you once had. Now leave it too, but if the Working Party and the Centre Parties could at least undertake to increase by 0.02 pst. Every year, we will achieve this goal in at least six years. If we get any obligating statement on that, it will be a step forward.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e287	We'll see in the annual budgets what is presented by proposals, and then we'll deal with it. What is absolutely certain is that we have a formulation in the Workers' Party programme where the goal is to reach 1 pst. of gross national income in the case of ODA-approved assistance. Then I would like to repeat what I have said about the need for assistance outside the ODA-approved, and also outside the ODA-OSSE area, because we may need to spend money on longer-term development projects in such areas, i.e. not just humanitarian aid, emergency aid and, for that matter, help to alleviate environmental disasters or potential environmental disasters, see. The Russia program and the money we give you. We may need to look at assistance in a slightly wider context than what we are doing today. I think this could be an exciting debate. I think it is important that we take that debate. At the same time, I agree with the representative of Solheim that there is a limitless need for development assistance. However, I would like to stress that we need to see assistance in the context of other measures in the world community, and I believe that getting driving rules for world trade, driving rules for investment, major debt and debt cancellation are also measures that will mean a great deal for the development of individual countries in the south. I personally believe that it is the developing countries that make the most of having proper driving rules in relation to the World Trade Organisation. I don't think isolation brings countries out of poverty. Therefore, all these things must be seen in the context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e294	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e297	Reducing poverty and ensuring sustainable growth and development are a global common interest. Many of today's global challenges, such as violent conflicts, crime, nature robbery, etc., are rooted in poverty. The Progress Party therefore supports the provision of humanitarian assistance by Norway as a rich country to address famine and other disasters. In spite of this, as long as the party has existed, the Progress Party has been the leading critic here at Stortinget of Norwegian development aid. I'll mention some of the objections. The progress party has constantly questioned the effectiveness of the u-help. We have stated that it has often led to the maintenance of corrupt and dictatorial regimes. Assistance has often resulted in the most appropriate changes in the business life of the recipient countries being or has not been carried out at all. U-help has often resulted in funds that would otherwise have gone to meet the basic needs of people in need have been released for warfare. An example of this is Norway’s main cooperation country, Sri Lanka, where an irreconcilable civil war has taken more than 50,000 lives over the last 15 years. A cross of thought is that while the total military expenditure of the regime in 1998 amounted to 719 million. dollar, the aid from other countries was already as early as 1995 to 559 million. dollar. Last year Norway alone contributed almost 100 million. kr. Would such warfare, at least to such an extent, be possible without the extensive international aid? The burden of proof lies with the supporters of the State aid to Sri Lanka. The statement by Mr Frafjord Johnson, Minister for Development and Human Rights, has, in the view of the Progress Party, an ambitious level that seems unrealistically high. I allow myself to give some examples. Norway shall combat corruption. We shall contribute to measures that can lead to greater transparency and backwardness of management, better accounting systems and the organisation of control procedures and enforcement mechanisms. Furthermore, the possibility of control of administration by national and parliamentary audits needs to be strengthened. We must strengthen democracy. We're going to help build functioning public institutions, free media and ensure freedom of expression. The statement states: ‘By means of the assistance, we can offer cooperation on the demanding task of building up and maintaining a public appliance that operates in line with democratic principles and is based on anchoring and trust in our own country.’ This shall also include the judiciary, the national assembly, the police and the prison system. Strengthening local administration, voluntary organisations, political structures, parties and free media, education and research, etc. A heart attack: I almost think the ambitions of the Adultås Declaration are fading in proportion. How will Norway be able to contribute in an appropriate and effective way in line with the assumptions, when we see how public spending in a number of contexts is wasted at home, when we look at the major challenges we face and have not been able to solve in our own country? Despite a rich register of supervision, public offices, directorates, detailed legislation and control bodies, we are not able to sufficiently combat public waste, bureaucracy, keep budgets in place or manage public property. This is not least a frightful witness in our school building. When we do not manage to sweep for our own door here at home, how are we to have reasonable confidence that Norwegian aid suppliers, in cooperation with international aid providers and authorities, will be able to clean up under distant skies, away from our thousands of employees of official inspectors? The Progress Party feels that some of these objections, which call into question the provision of aid at all, are in the process of being passed on, both internationally — how ODA aid on the donor side has been reduced by one third in real money during the 1990s — and not least in developing countries themselves, where market access on equal terms is the most important issue for more and more developing countries. However, the positions of the Norwegian political debate have also become more critical in this area. As a line to Marit Nybakk, I would say that, in my opinion, the Progress Party is not outside the debate, but we are as before in front of it. There are no longer enough moral reasons to legitimize the use of taxpayers' money, which in Norway amounts to over 10 billion dollars a year. This is not least important when we record the infinite number of unsolved tasks facing the nation of Norway in terms of giving its own inhabitants acceptable conditions in terms of basic things such as safety against traffic and assault, a proper health service and providing elderly people who have built the country, a worthy old age — in other words, tasks related to providing individual security in everyday life. Fortunately, there are growing demands for evidence of the effectiveness of the u-help. As you can see, the best purpose of this statement is to improve u-help in the light of experience, without any fundamental breakthroughs in this area. In my opinion, the best example of a breakthrough is the understanding that help is not just a matter of money, but it is a combination of money and ideas. This is also one of the conclusions of the World Bank’s Assessment Aid report, which stresses that open trade, ensuring private property rights, the absence of corruption, respect for the rule of law, social security networks and sound macro-economics as well as financial policies are fundamental prerequisites for the success of assistance, where appropriate, and the economic development of a country. At the heart of this is the understanding that a well-functioning market, where the superior signalling system, which is the choice of goods and services for consumers on the market, is functioning and thereby ensuring the prosperity of developing countries. Countries that have not developed favourable and stable business conditions do not attract investors either. This is one of the reasons why unhelp plays a small role in countries that lack well-developed policies and political institutions. The order is first and then the money when a country has met the criteria necessary to use it wisely is effective in terms of development. It should also be a cross of thought for the Norwegian authorities that it is claimed by the World Bank that in Norway’s main co-operation countries such as Norway. Tanzania and Nicaragua, countries where billions of dollars have been injected over a number of years, have at best remained silent. The Progress Party therefore welcomes the understanding that the best way to help developing countries is to ensure market access for their products. This is not least the case on the agricultural side. Instead of subsidising Norwegian food products dumped on the world market at spot prices, such as: cheap meat — at prices that Norwegian consumers can only dream of — thereby helping to prevent the development of competitive agriculture, which is a prerequisite for a number of developing countries to take important steps in the future, Norwegian authorities in practical policy should be able to deliver positive opinions in the report on Norwegian aid activities in 1998, such as:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Agriculture, including forestry and fishing, is essential for the overall social and economic development of most developing countries and is, in fact, the most dynamic sector for economic development in a number of Norway’s co-operation countries.’ The desire of the Progress Party is that the free trade-friendly attitudes of the Government will prevail over the more protective agricultural-oriented, so that developing countries can get the help they really need and ask, namely real access to the market for their products – and that is, products they have the opportunity to export, not least agricultural products. The fight for free trade in terms of the reduction of customs barriers and non-tariff barriers to trade, the fight against protectionism, has been central to world trade growing almost twice as much as world production in the post-war period, with a subsequent increase in wealth. The development of the GATT system and the WTO are central engines here, and the Progress Party hopes that Norway will contribute positively to the process now under way in Seattle.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e345	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e348	I agree with the Progress Party that many of today's global challenges, which are debilitating, are based on poverty. The Progress Party has also written it in its comments, but then it comes to the rest, where it says the following: ‘In any case, these members believe that the numerous wars in Africa are destroying values far greater than those given to Africa in the form of aid. If at an early stage the international community had intervened in such conflicts with police forces and military means, this would probably have been able to save human lives and material values and promote economic development in Africa by means of much less economic efforts.» I would like to ask the representative Danielsen how this is consistent with interventions in relation to the sovereignty of nation states, etc. – whether Norway should have been involved in this, too. What is concrete waste? When a mother says that when her child asks for something to eat, she says that the rice boils, until he is starving from hunger, for there is no rice, so it is a challenge. How can this be compared with Norwegian conditions? When you say from the Progress Party that you have to sweep for your own door, and 99.11 pst. used here at home, how can the Progress Party feel that the remaining one is waste?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e358	The answer to this is that we in the Advance Party of course are trailers of emergency help. But a crucial point for us is that we need to be able to demonstrate that the help we give is essentially real, and we fundamentally disagree with the majority in this room about what is real help. We read the story so that the main gravity of the help that has been given has worked negatively, although of course there are also examples that help has worked. We believe that it is free trade and giving developing countries real market access is the most important means of developing those countries that are not so well developed. We don't think it helps to waste good money after bad.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e363	We are facing a sort of classic distinction in political thinking, and where the Progress Party is now the only party that represents that kind of thinking – this is that the Advance Party of course is helping people in need. And that's how political thinking has always been: you've wanted to give alms, and you don't want people to die or freeze or things like that. The other policy stance on such issues is to enable people to cope with themselves. This is the other side of the aid and aid. It is very surprising that the Progress Party is taking a step away from and is not involved in the construction of a society, with education, with the development of production, with democracy, civil structures, etc., because in the next round, the Progress Party says that it wants a freest market. So for that to work, there has to be something to sell on this market, and someone has to be able to buy on this market. And for that to happen, these countries, which, for various reasons, have fallen quite aft, which they themselves are not entirely responsible for, must have the necessary assistance to get to that level. This makes the comments of the Progress Party and also the representative Danielsen, in my opinion, very ludicrous. So I have to ask the representative: this market, the free market access, which we very much agree on, does it not mean that there is actually a level in these countries that allows them to use it?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e372	I agree with the representative, Mr Engretsen, that in order for it to be a market, there must be money in the system so that the market can function. But I do not agree that we are creating the level of this market by providing u-help. I also agree, when we talk about a free market, that it is quite clear that a prerequisite for a market to function is that there are frameworks and regulations around it. To quote economist Charles L. Schultze, a market that works carries the government stamp in its forehead. When it comes to education, I'm more in line with the World Bank report on Assing Aid than I am with Kjell Engebretsen. I do not believe that investing in education itself is sufficient if you consider this independently of the total level of public expenditure in a developing country, because there is a clear context here. The conclusion of this report, for example, is that these things need to be seen in the context in order to measure the effectiveness of the assistance provided. If not, this money is released for other public purposes that are not necessarily productive or conducive to development.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e381	Day Danielsen decided at the beginning of his post that the Advancement Party will help people in distress. But he also made it very clear that there is a stop to the policy of the Progress Party in relation to helping outside Norway's own living room door. And this is probably just one of the areas where we see the most fundamental difference in view between the Right and the Advance Party. On the day Danielsen repeated that the members of the Progress Party in the Committee have also written in the vote, namely that they see ‘with scepticism on most development projects because we consider the positive impact on the population of the developing countries to be very small while seeing clear adverse effects’. On the right, the SV's Erik Solheim argued that all Norwegian aid was successful. That's good reason to be critical. At the same time, however, we must not underestimate the fact that much of the assistance we have also provided has produced results. But leave it anyway, because I realize that here it's not useful to have a conversation with the Progress Party. My question, on the other hand, will be whether this approach to assistance will also apply to Norway's neighbourhoods. Will that also be the attitude to the reconstruction of the Balkans? Will this be the position of the Progress Party on aid related to the former Eastern European countries? Will it be the attitude of the Progress Party in relation to Russia – and let me expand with other states that were mentioned here by Marit Nybakk? We are interested to hear whether that is the overall position of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e395	It is right – and I am glad that it was also noted by the representative Frost Sterri – that the Progress Party is more sceptical and critical of the use of taxpayers' money for public purposes and expenditure than the Right. What is absolutely crucial for us is, of course, what works, and there we run a more liberalist line than the Social Democratic Right ever does. As for the question from the representative Frost Sterri about the neighbourhoods, what's happening on the other side of the border, of course it's also a fundamental question. We also have to make the same demands there that the aid may be effective. And what we see in Russia, for example, is that part of these basic assumptions that do not exist in a number of developing countries, they are also not present in Russia. So putting money into a black hole, the Progress Party has no faith in. As far as this is concerned with the Balkans, it is a well-known fact that the Progress Party here in the Grand Duchy, as early as the start of the war, proposed to increase the allocations to that area in order to provide assistance in the neighbourhoods. Clearly, the situation in the Balkans and the war that has taken place there means that the Balkans will be in a special situation in a number of areas.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e404	The comments of the party on this position are worth a study in itself, to say the least. And for those who need to be interested in documenting where the main lines of Norwegian aid policy go, this setting is at least very instructive. One of the formulations that I've supported a little later, is that the Progress Party, in a very serious time, believes that food aid to correct food shortages and hunger is a problem because it creates local disturbances in the market by pushing local prices, and that this leads to food production being discontinued. It might be interesting to hear whether the Progress Party can really prove that food for deficit areas has such negative effects, and whether the Party believes that it is in itself an argument to stop such aid shipments. The progress party says that the party is for emergency aid, and I assume that the Progress Party is aware that food shipments, i.e. aid shipments, are very rarely going to areas where there is no shortage of food. So what the Progress Party means by this reasoning could be interesting for us others to hear.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e416	I would first like to thank Mr Jakobsen for his compliments when he says that our remarks are instructive in clarifying the differences in the U.S. aid policy. It is positive, for some of the purposes of this debate are, of course, to clarify to the electorate what alternatives they have in the policy. It is, in my view, a contribution to the further development of democracy. So to the question of this with subsidised food production. The party that is not considered favourable is that Norwegian agriculture is subsidised very strongly and then dumps some of the products, for example. meat, on the world market, at prices which Norwegian consumers at all are not close to enjoying. But I will agree with the representative Jakobsen that of course it is necessary to go in with food etc. in some disaster areas. That's a completely different problem than what we're looking at here. What is important to us is that we have to facilitate the creation of a market in a developing country, just as the representative, Mr Engretsen, was also involved in a reply to me. And what the statement also points out quite correctly is that the agricultural sector is one of those sectors where some countries that are not well developed in industry can create a market and create a prosperity platform gradually.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e425	It is rare to read something that I, for my part, disagree with as much as the comments the Progress Party has written in this setting, and what the representative Danielsen made in his statement. In the speech, perhaps the conclusion was, on issues related to the WTO negotiations in Seattle, the closest we could come to a much closer agreement. What is becoming provocative is actually comparing the situation in Norway with the situation in the third world and in most developing countries. Obviously, there are things that don't work in Norway, and it's clear that our ambition is to make things work better. But if you look at the huge difference between the level of function we have in many performances and conditions in Norway, and what you have in the third world, it seems pointless to make that comparison and say that because we have unsolved tasks in Norway, we should not contribute to solving the much bigger problems in the third world. I just think that this distance in problems is very well expressed in the comment of the Progress Party when they list the goals that are set, and at the same time almost ask questions if you really think you should be able to do something about all of this. Here you actually get an illustration of what is essentially the difference between the situation in Norway and that in many countries in the third world. The question to the representative Danielsen is therefore: does he think that one with Norway's assistance alone should be able to improve all these matters, and is that why one has resistance to assistance from the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e436	To clarify and prevent any misunderstanding: of course, I will not compare the situation in Norway with that in some of the least developed countries in the world. But what's part of the point, and which also tends to be central to the Left in some celebrations, is this with close democracy. The things that happen in your presence are easier to deal with, easier to control, easier to assess what's going on – it's easier for a politician to do something that works. There is a very central point in this with the assistance of Norway to a number of countries around the world. I understand, of course, that, as the representative Hove points out, none of the parties here on the Stortinget believe that one with Norway's assistance alone will be able to do the sisyphos work we are facing here in terms of developing the world economically and in other areas. The statement also underlines the need to try to coordinate this internationally. But some of our criticisms are that these are some airy wordings and a series of measures that cannot be prioritised, which, in our opinion, make this statement less credible, and which we believe contribute to the fact that the results of this policy will not be as good as desired.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e445	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e448	In these budget days, someone is asking, can we afford it? In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, justice is not a question of whether you can afford it, but of doing what is right. It is our duty to realise solidarity with the world's poor. When you give a man a fish, he's saturated one day, it's said. But if you teach him how to fish, he can feed himself for the rest of his life. The goal must be that many more learn to fish. Human dignity is the same for all people, no matter where they are on the globe. Therefore, the requirements for fair distribution and fundamental human rights apply to all. The UN definition of the concept of development is to extend human access to fundamental goods or rights, such as education, health and clean drinking water. About half the world's population is still denied these rights. Assistance is not enough to correct this bias. This is why the Government has previously presented both a debt plan for the year 2000 and a strategy for industrial development in the south that shows the importance of international framework conditions, which I will come back to later. But the level of assistance itself is also important. Therefore, the Government has proposed a stepping-up plan to get the assistance up to 1 pst. of GNI in 2005, against 0,89 pst. for the year 2000. The Christian People's Party is known as busy with pro-miles, but then it has been the resistance that has been dominant. When it comes to aid heads, we think the increase in pro-miles can actually play a big role. For some people it's a be or not whether we take of our abundance and give back to those who don't. But we are also very concerned about the content of the assistance itself – and improvements to it. Corruption is one of the major obstacles to economic development. Corruption is reprehensible and must be combative. The Christian People's Party therefore sees it as a pleasure that Development Minister Hilde Frafjord Johnson, in his presentation, launched an offensive in the fight against corruption. The build-up of competence to make NORAD a front-level organisation against corruption and cooperation with organisations such as Transparency International provide exciting opportunities for this work. This organisation, the world’s largest NGO player in the fight against corruption, has also established a separate department in Norway this week. The challenges of corruption are also on the agenda of the developing countries themselves. The problems of corruption in Africa include: have been discussed in the OAU context, and a resolution on combating corruption was adopted at the summit last year. The Secretariat now has a process in place to establish an African Convention following, for example, the Organisation of the Convention against Corruption of the United States, which was established in Latin America in 1996. The OAU’s commitment is widely supported by the Member States and also cooperates with an international commission of lawyers. Proposals are expected to be promoted at the summit next year. Only the people themselves can create development. It is better to enable people to develop than to restore development for the people. Development must come from below by creating self-respect and commitment that will lead to economic, political and social change. In extending such thinking, microfinance is an important and effective instrument. This is a form of assistance that triggers the capacity of the poor, because the projects provide loans to non-rich people who do not have the opportunity to borrow through the usual banking system. In particular, we see women in the south taking advantage of this, and thus raising their status. They are shown trust and respect when they gain new knowledge and increased income. They are able to fish for themselves. It gives people dignity and help to get out of a degrading poverty. Today’s Business has had articles in the harvest where it may seem, among other things, to be The power foundation charges interest and exploits the system. This is wrong. Firstly, microfinance has been developed by the poor themselves, namely in Bangladesh in the 1970s. Secondly, it is not the organisation that lends to the borrowers, but they give interest-free loans to their partners in the south. It's these partners that lend money for interest to local borrowers, and the refund is at 90-95 pst. Through microfinance, the poor themselves control their activities. I have seen and experienced this for myself. A widow in the Philippines had a loan to buy some domestic animals. She got profit to invest in another animal, and thus she could live off the profit. Then her children could go to school instead of going to the garbage dump to look for food every day. This also improves the lives of the children, who can develop again. Support for non-governmental organisations is one of the pillars of Norwegian development cooperation. It is better to enable people to develop than to restore development for people – it is also part of the philosophy of Uganda Change Agents, the change agents who every year school women and men of all ages to agents in the community where they live. They work with their fellow human beings with the aim of addressing their own challenges and opportunities in the community. They are convinced that the development of social goods such as schools, health services, infrastructure, etc. must be based on two assumptions. One is an economy that can maintain and further develop these social goods — an economic pillar that must be regional and local and based on the people’s own efforts. The second premise is open public participation in the political processes at all levels – namely democracy. But most importantly, the reason on which these two assumptions are based is the development of human resources. Today, more than 1,000 change agents are volunteering in many of Uganda’s regions. ‘We cannot build democracy, but we can make it possible for poor countries themselves to build it’, as the Minister for Development said in his statement. In her effort to develop democracy, she focused in particular on two challenges: popular mobilisation and the building and consolidation of new, fragile democracies. So education is at the heart of it. Training is the building of democracy. In particular, investing in education for women is a good social economy, showing analyses by the World Bank and the UNDP. It is also important to ensure a good governance and strengthening civil society. One of the main objectives of the work of the Peace Corps is precisely to strengthen civil society in our countries of cooperation. The government's conversion of the Peace Corps will facilitate the achievement of the objectives of this work. The idea is that the Peace Corps should be primarily an organisation for cooperation between young, engaged people from the north and from the south, who can establish contacts and cooperation between movements and organisations at grassroots in the countries in which they are located. I have faith in this. Young people in Norway have also shown, through a recent study — by Opinion AS — that they have a sense of such values. Through several questions of value, it was found that Mother Teresa and Nelson Mandela were far superior to the role models of Bill Gates and Kjell Inge Smoke. Since the presentation of development policy was held in May, the G-8 meeting has been held in Cologne. There, countries agreed to extend the HIPC initiative to include several debt-stabilised developing countries. All the 50,000 people from Jubilee 2000, SLUG, Changemaker and others who came to Cologne to influence the rich countries to cancel their debt, are now waiting, together with all of us, to see the implementation of this. Norway remains at the forefront of its efforts to make the HIPC mechanism more efficient and flexible for those countries that need debt relief the most. The work now being done by the major financial institutions of the IMF and the World Bank has been a driving force behind Norway. When the IMF, together with the World Bank, has designed a ‘Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper’ for the HIPC countries, it is a major breakthrough. This is the first time that the IMF is formally active in achieving the poverty reduction objective, which Norway has fought for. In reality, this is a victory for Norway and similar countries in international development. Similarly, the United States has put in place a debt cancellation plan similar to the Norwegian model. Because Norway holds a high level, we have great credibility. The Comprehensive Development Framework is also an important initiative presented by the Director of the World Bank. This framework for organisations and the private sector forces donors to be responsible managers through coordination and national anchoring. When one and a half billion people still lack access to safe drinking water, 125 million children do not have access to primary education and AIDS have reduced the average life expectancy by 17 years in at least ten countries in Africa, it is a challenge for us to let justice prevail.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e488	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e491	As the representative Steensnæs underlined in a line change earlier today, there is a broad consensus between the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party on development assistance. I still have a few questions for the representative Scarbøvik. I very much agree with the representative who said about the effect of microcredit. The same could be said with regard to the planned strategy for industrial development in the south, including: a pair-three pilot country has been plucked out. I would like to ask if she also agrees that it implies international driving rules for economic relations, including trade and market access for the products that come out of both possible investments due to microcredit and, of course, a business strategy. As far as the Peace Corps is concerned, the Workers' Party supports the Government's proposal for a model, in particular to recruit young people from an ideological and idealistic point of view. I would like to ask the representative Skarbøvik to stress that it must not mean that the Peace Corps is now becoming a financing mechanism for the Norwegian private aid organisations, especially the large ones, but that the Peace Corps must remain an independent organisation. Finally, in my speech, I was concerned that we also need a debate on areas outside the traditional areas of assistance such as Africa, Latin America and parts of Asia – not least the Caucasus, Central Asia and other parts of the post-Soviet states, because of the bottomless distress we are seeing today, and the enormous needs that lie in our immediate vicinity.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e502	Here were many questions that I should have liked to have kept for a while to say something about. However, I agree with Marit Nybakk that we have obtained the broad consensus in the Committee, except for the Progress Party, which we have heard here in the past, in the context of the statement made by the Minister for Development. Marit Nybakk was involved in this with microcredit and business development in the south. I'm glad of the consensus there, too. We will have the opportunity next year to come back and discuss precisely this industrial development in the south, when evaluations are in place. Of course, we also agree with the access to the market on which the representative Nybakk was involved. We in the Christian People's Party place emphasis on improving trade conditions, which were mentioned. In the case of the Peace Corps, there is a conversion there that will take effect from next year. I agree that there should not be a funding scheme for the large organisations, but that it should be an independent institution. With regard to the neighbourhoods, which Marit Nybakk was also concerned about, the Christian People's Party gives priority to the poorest countries. We've always put that into focus. That is why we want assistance to go first and foremost, and we want to focus in particular on Africa and the poorest countries there. For that area, the proportion is up to 46 pst, and we want to get into 50 pst. But that doesn't mean we're neglecting the neighbourhoods. We will also look at the GSP scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e515	I'm somewhat surprised at how fixed the Christian People's Party is on numbers and percentages. At the latest in the reply to the last reply, the representative is Scarbøvik, who receives 46 pst. of our assistance today ; the goal of the Christian People's Party is 50 pst. I don't understand that they're basing it on it rather than basing on whether the assistance we provide really brings help to the countries. The Waxenås statement had great ambitions about an escalating plan to reach 1 pst. of GNI in the case of development aid. But I expect that Elsa Scarbøvik must also be humble enough to acknowledge that in the meeting with the Norwegian everyday life the Christian People's Party has also had to adjust its ambitions, so that this escalation plan is still postponed somewhat in time. But now leave it. I noticed that Elsa Skarbøvik did not have the opportunity to answer anything in particular complementary to the question from Marit Nybakk about the ODA limits that apply today. Does the Christian People's Party believe that a review of the established ODA limits should be carried out so that part of our neighbourhoods, where there is demonstrably great poverty, can also be covered by this agreement? In that case, if the Christian People's Party too believes it, what consequences will it have for the party's policy in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e524	Right is still amazed at the Christian People's Party. Yes, I understand that, when the Right is not concerned with having goals. That's the difference between us. When we say 1 pst. – we could have said 1.2 pst. or 1,3 pst. – it’s not exactly the one percent that’s important, but it’s having a goal. We're not fixed on numbers. The Christian People's Party is fixed on people in distress. That's what's behind the numbers. And that's not percent, as I said in my post, here it's actually just talking about increasing in pro-miles. So it's this by getting an obligating goal that we want to increase the effort of the poor people of the world. It's waiting for the people out there. And it won't be in the Christian People's Party to be in it. I can humiliate myself, if it helps to the Right, and say that we are not happy that the escalation plan has been postponed. But now it's at least in place, and now it's up to Stortingen to be there and make sure it's implemented. It's hiding people in distress behind the numbers, and I wish we could also get the Right to realize that. When it comes to these ODA limits, we could be involved in a review of it. Clearly, with approved projects, we will be involved in supporting this, but it should not be at the expense of our poverty orientation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e535	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e539	As well as taking another line, in connection with this post I have the opportunity to replicate to Elsa Scarbøvik regarding the last thing she said. Because I have to say that there is at least some recognition, I understand, from the Christian People's Party, when she says that "we are not happy" that we have not power over the escalation plan so far. I can also assure the representative Scarbøvik that the Right has clear objectives for aid policy. Our main objective is that aid should work, not how much money we should send out of the country. Furthermore, the Right's principles of assistance should be well known. We have exerted pressure against the Government for greater emphasis on recipient responsibility, efficiency and assessment of the results of the assistance. However, our principle attitude, which I also took up in a reply to Marit Nybakk, is that setting the goal of a given part of gross national income, will be to start at a crazy end. Fixed frameworks may work against their intention to streamline and facilitate more performance-oriented management of aid resources. Fixed frameworks can provide heavy administration on both sides of the aid cycle, both in beneficiary countries and in donor countries. Secretary-General of the United Nations, Kofi Annan, wrote in Today's Business yesterday, among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t «Practical experience has shown that trade and investment not only lead to economic development but also improved human rights and environmental protection.» Kofi Annan emphasises a central point in the WTO negotiations, namely that all the benefits of full-time free trade must be borne by developing countries. This underlines another of the main points of the Right: trade with LDCs is one of the best instruments in the global community to promote economic development in these countries. U.S. countries must be able to benefit from common rules on driving in the field of trade policy. This implies that they must enter a market without encountering high customs barriers. Therefore, it is also necessary to include strategies for industrial development as an active part of our aid policy. The Government has established the Industrial Development Forum in the South. We're positive about this, but at the same time we expect to be actively working on getting this forum really on its legs. In this context, I also recall the majority recommendation to the Council of State to put forward a strategy for the development of nutrition in the south ahead of the Storting. We have noticed that until now, the Government will not introduce the system of auctioning principles on beef, as proposed in the State budget. The right is opposed to an auction scheme, as this may have a detrimental effect on the goods. MUL meat is often more difficult to distribute and market than other meat. An auction mechanism may therefore disrupt trade with the MUL countries. You do not get the necessary continuity in trade, especially on the Norwegian recipient side. The right has also pointed out that the Government has a ambiguous relationship with facilitating the ability of developing countries to trade. In 1998 customs revenue in Norway was just over DKK 1.2 billion. U-land represented 47 pst. of the customs duties levied by Norway in 1998. A comparison of effective rates of duty shows a similar picture. The effective duty rate for goods from the EU is 0.5 pst., USA 1.1 pst. and the developing countries 3.7 pst. I refer you to the Right comments in the setting. The objectives of economic development, improved human rights and environmental protection are not difficult to agree with. But there is always a question of instruments and flexibility in the use of instruments. In the area of assistance, much can be done better. One option is to make use of assistance to business and clarify the relationship. Most countries with which we like to compare have a more flexible relationship with this than the assumptions embedded in the principle of unbound assistance and the share of GNI. A recent example is the EU's Balkans strategy. The EU’s use of assistance in this region is linked to business activities. It gives the EU considerable freedom of action, while Norway faces difficulties in channelling assistance to the region due to lack of strategy and flexibility. Similarly, countries where investment is at risk for reasons other than those resulting from conflicts should be able to do so. Our great neighbouring country, Russia, is in great need of investment and humanitarian aid as well. However, the Norwegian State guarantee schemes for Russia are complex, partly due to unclear legal and political conditions on the Russian side and a significant commercial risk. In the opinion of the Right, it should be possible to develop combined opportunities for business development, trade cooperation and assistance. It seems clear that today’s action programme only meets to a limited extent the needs of the business community for a concrete and coordinated effort on Russia. It should be assessed whether assistance can be used in our neighbourhoods and in a way that contributes to promoting trade and industrial development. In its proposal for a State budget, the right has been committed to strengthening the efforts of our neighbourhoods by increasing the allocation of the action programme for Eastern and Central Europe. However, we see the need for a specific review of the Russian problem, taking into account the special circumstances we are facing here. A critical assessment of the recipient countries must form an essential part of our assistance strategy. Assistance does not seem particularly poverty-reducing or democratic in regions where conflicts, political mismanagement and economic stagnation or decline characterise the picture. Councillor Frafjord Johnson was in the financial debate about the political situation in Zimbabwe and, on that occasion, put his trust in a trade union which is supposed to be strong in the country. I assume that the Council of State here meant the African national-patriotic front. However, we must not be naive in our eagerness to help. In Zimbabwe, health workers have recently been on strike due to a lack of necessary medicines and equipment. The regime spends $3 million. US dollars a month on war in support of President Laurent Kabila's misrule in Congo, according to the Washington Post on 21 November this year. In 1998, the defence budget in Zimbabwe amounted to 471 million. US dollars. We know that aid has been provided for health programmes in Uganda, Mozambique and Zimbabwe. What guarantees do you have that these funds have not gone to anything other than what they were intended for? The criticism of Mugabe's regime is after all extensive. Attempts to introduce a separate AIDS tax are a new feature, which has called for strong international protests. The general human rights situation in the country can also be called into question. The right-hand position is that if assistance contributes to the maintenance of dictatorship, the assistance must be stopped. This must also mean that assistance in conflict areas must always be critically assessed, while there must be real opportunities for sanctions. Let me end by referring again to Kofi Annan's article in Today's Business on the gain of free trade. There is agreement in Norway that aid is part of a comprehensive Norwegian foreign policy. However, we also need to consider more flexible arrangements at the intersection of aid and industrial development. In this way, we can make real gains for developing countries.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e578	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e581	When, in conclusion, the representative Frost Sterri says that the aid must be stopped, with reference to Zimbabwe and any other countries that violate human rights and/or are at war, she literally believes that the aid must be stopped, or she can agree to change land allocations to, for example. regional appropriations, or channelling assistance to multilateral organisations to ensure that, despite any despotisms that govern the country, the people in need of such assistance still receive it? Otherwise, there is agreement between the Workers' Party and the Right that stable economic and social development in developing countries also requires industrial investment and world trade to secure markets for developing countries. But I would also like to ask the representative Frost Sterri, who is concerned about, among other things. The World Bank and the World Bank's priorities, whether or not she agrees with the main conclusion contained in the World Bank's report Assessing Aid, that public sector, health, education, democracy and political parties and private organisations are also necessary in order for us to be able to obtain assistance to work, and that we should also be able to grow in business and agriculture. In other words, she sees the need for a strong investment among others. in education in the countries which are priority beneficiary countries for Norwegian aid?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e588	Let me start with the last one first. The representative Nybakk referred to the World Bank report. Yes, we agree with this without further delay. That is what we have also said in the past in relation to the priority areas, which the Minister for Aid has listed, in connection with Norwegian bets. We fully agree on health and education, and we also support democracy, so there is no disagreement here. When I chose to answer this first, it is precisely because the first question to Marit Nybakk was linked to countries where there should be great questions about assistance in the ordinary way. We also need to remember that we have some experience that makes it necessary to ask questions about whether assistance in some areas has worsened the situation rather than helped. That is why I have to say on behalf of the Right that we will be fundamental to a too strong commitment by the Norwegian side in, for example. a country such as Zimbabwe, as is currently the situation. And some of the point must be that when we have such regimes, we have to react, and we react by stopping the aid. But I don't want to be abastant in the attitude to whether any of the appropriations can be turned into regional allocations or into multilateral organisations, in other words channelled through the United Nations system. We are also limited by that, but we also want to mark through cuts in aid when such regimes govern a country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e597	It surprises me a little bit when the Right keeps coming away with this accusation against the Christian People's Party that they're just busy with percentages and numbers, it seems to me a little bit like an excuse not to join in and contribute. One also uses the excuse that help doesn't work. Assistance works for individuals, and it means something to individuals. I think the Right Soon must begin to realize that here's the individual we're talking about, who has a value. I think the right is concerned about, and I'm in. It's okay. As the representative Dag Danielsen said, it's easier to deal with what's close. But those are the distant voices we do not hear. And if the Right could start listening to these distant voices, I think one will see that for individuals it means something that one is in the aid. Does that mean that when the Right realizes that assistance works, the Right will be involved in an increased percentage, which means more money and increased effort for individuals?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e604	This reply from the representative, Dagrun Eriksen, confirms what I have been dealing with earlier in this debate. I feel that the Christian People's Party has – sorry to say – a very religious relationship with this with percentages of GNI. And I think the Christian People's Party should think carefully about it. I made it clear to the Right that it is a general objective that assistance should work, and not that one should be in such a and such a large proportion of GNI. Nevertheless, I record that the Christian People's Party also gradually sees that we need to take greater responsibility in our neighbourhoods, where perhaps Norway has far greater prerequisites for helping, and provide help that really benefits, than is the case for part of what we have assisted other and more distant strokes. I also think it is a bit surprising to hear the representative Dagrun Eriksen say that assistance always works for the individual. I'll put a big question mark on that. I mentioned in my main post a country like Zimbabwe, where there may be reason to ask whether funds that Norway contributes to do not allow the regime to use even more resources to defend itself and to wage war. I think this should also lead to a little more curiosity in the Christian People's Party regarding the use of Norwegian assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e613	I hope the representative Frost Sterri can confirm that she did not think anything negative about the fact that the Christian People's Party has a religious relationship with aid, because there is nothing wrong with that. The crucial thing, on the other hand, is whether the relationship is dogmatic or not, and it may seem that the representative Frost Sterri has a good point with this debate around 1 pst., where it is about doing the best boy in the class – it reminds me a little about the debate around 36,9 in a completely different context. But I would also like to ask the representative Frost Sterri whether she is satisfied with the effect of the assistance given to the neighbourhoods – and I am thinking above all of Russia – because it is a crucial point for the Right, according to the representative Frost Sterri, that the aid should work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e620	As for the fact that I claimed that the Christian People's Party has an almost religious relationship with percentages of GNI, I didn't leave anything negative in it, but I chose to use an image that should be well known to the Christian People's Party. In other words, it was in what I said that the Christian People's Party is probably strong in faith, but in the face of reality and with everyday life, either the will or the ability to follow up its own ambitions in this area fails. And so humility should also have the Christian People's Party today that they recognize that even if they wanted a somewhat faster escalation in the government position, they have not been able to do so far. But then to the second question, whether the Right is satisfied with the assistance given to Russia today. It is not without reason that the Right in the context of the budget will ask that we now have a new review of the Russia strategy. We've been on and off to get the Central and Eastern Europe programme on our feet. We have also been eager for sufficient funding there, but we must recognise that there are so complex conditions and challenges to be met within this gradually, that there is reason to take a closer look at the entire arrangement of this programme, and we are concerned that we must now work out our own Russia strategy, precisely in order to have a better impact in the cooperation that will be between us and Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e627	I've been listening to this debate for a long time, and I didn't really intend to take the floor – and when you start that, of course, you shouldn't do that either – but now the contradictions in the Right said so many that I somehow couldn't push myself. First of all, the Right says that the debate on 1 pst. It's not very important at all, but you spend almost all your time talking about that, and criticizing all of the other games so that at least you have a goal of getting it up to 1 pst. Once you've done that, you spend a lot of time saying that the most important thing is not how much help we give, the level doesn't matter, while the right in a number of other areas of society, the masses and the masses that we need to spend more money. It's just waiting for the transport debate in a few days, we're going to hear that we're spending too little money on roads in Norway, or on the defence debate, where getting up the percentage or the use of money on the defense itself shows that we're betting more on the defense, or on any other debate. Why in the world is it that when it comes to assistance, it doesn't mean anything to the world how much we spend. Everyone agrees that the quality of the roads or the quality of the defense and the quality of the assistance are more important than exactly how much money we spend, but there's no logic in that from there to say that it means no world thing how much we spend. And then we come to the third contradiction. It is that the only significant contribution of the Right to the debate on how to use the money more rationally is to say that we should spend more money on Russia and Eastern Europe and concentrate on the neighbourhoods. It is good that the Right has kept that question warm in Norwegian policy, often together with SV. It's fine. But it is absolutely impossible to prove that the money we have spent in Russia has benefited more than the money we have used elsewhere. I would rather say that if you were to take a summary, it is rather so far that the money that has been spent in Russia is somewhat more difficult to see results from than from money that has been used in many other places. In any case, aid to Russia has not been such a daunting success that it can replace any other use of money.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e638	I appreciate the fact that Erik Solheim is present in the hall today, but he disappoints me when he gets so little out of what I said. I believe the explanation of what he means to have perceived as three contradictions, must be that he has just dropped out and did not hear much of what I said. When it comes to using a fixed percentage of GNI as a measure of whether we are kind and nice and willing to help other poor countries, I mentioned it in my post – and let's assume that I have used the line on others who have it as a completely fixed number, and used it to drill in it, because in the Right we don't think it should be a measure of our benefit. We have a completely different approach, without necessarily having any contradiction between that and the fact that we give priority to some important tasks in our own country. With regard to defence, it is enough to read newspapers today, as we see how questions from abroad are now being asked about the preparedness of Norway in the defence sector, pointing to the slowdown that has taken place in the appropriations. In terms of granting more to infrastructure and roads, the difference is that here we have many obvious, necessary and good projects that are just waiting for funds. This is not necessarily the case when it comes to sending the money out of the country and being uncritical to which regimes we can thereby be involved and assist. I am pleased with the rose that at least lay in Erik Solheim's posts when it was our commitment to Russia, and I agree with what he said there.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e651	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e655	In the statement on Norwegian development policy given last spring, the central government announced the perhaps most important aid policy action presented to the Stortinget in the year and day, namely the debt plan for the poorest countries, which was finalized in the context of the budget for the current year. The proposal for a debt plan for poor and crisis-affected developing countries was a follow-up to the Waksenåsen document and to the Government Declaration, but also to the comments of the central parties and SV in the suspension of the aid message dealt with by the Stortinge in the previous period. Norway has been a driving force in reducing the debt burden on the poorest countries. The Norwegian initiative has also rightly raised international concerns and interests. It is undoubtedly true that Norway is ‘participating in the creation of a trend’, as the Minister for Development and Human Rights expressed it in the statement. It was announced that Germany would run a new debt initiative at the G-8 meeting in Cologne this summer. The United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, France and Japan have already launched their own debt cancellation proposals. And it is also promising that the IMF and the World Bank will focus more on debt initiatives towards the poorest and most indebted countries. The trend we see gives hope that it will be possible to lift the most disadvantaged developing countries out of a bottomless and hopeless poverty, as the first stage of a more positive and humane development. The increased international understanding that developing countries’ debt problems represent a barrier to development is one of several reasons why climate change is changing and that we can now talk about a time gap in the work of increasing international solidarity. Moreover, increasing the ability of developed countries to coordinate their efforts provides a basis for stronger local control of the development of beneficiary countries. In total, this will mean a more targeted and efficient use of resources, while developing countries may increasingly provide a basis for development on their own premises. I see that the Progress Party is most concerned that such national and international coordination of relief efforts will require more meetings that require ‘substantial and expensive air travel with a stay at first-class hotels’. So the focus on this with coordination can actually be different. Although some positive trends can be pointed out, there is an ever-serious setback in aid work. Every day, we are reminded that poverty and lack of development must be tackled across a broad field. Several famines have hit the poorest countries in recent years. In 1998, there were dozens of serious conflicts on the African continent, which for a time put an end to any development. Unfortunately, corruption is a well-known phenomenon also in poor countries, and serious diseases, among others. HIV, is on the rise in several countries in Africa. In order to achieve a more positive development in these countries, assistance needs to be deployed across a broad field, which, in addition to more traditional assistance for economic development in the recipient countries, must also include conflict resolution, democratic construction, education and disease control, action against corruption and against predatory practices in nature and the environment and, in particular, the safeguarding of human rights. The Council of State, in its presentation, stressed the importance of the fight against corruption. Corruption undermines development, not only because important resources are lost, but also because it undermines democracy, cohesion and a fair distribution of the values that, after all, are created. The Council of State referred to Nigeria and Indonesia as scare examples on land where corruption has to be regarded as a systemic problem such as ‘disrupting’ the whole of society. Corruption in developing countries also contributes to the disincentive of aid in donor countries, thus weakening the willingness of industrialised countries to provide assistance. The statement warns of an offensive fight against corruption and launches six key areas of action to address the worst. NORAD shall be made an international front organisation in the fight against corruption. However, it will not be possible to win the fight against corruption without the willingness of the recipient countries themselves to fight against it. This is why it is so important that the fight against corruption becomes part of an ongoing dialogue with developing countries. This issue needs to be prioritised so as to be willing to take action against co-operative countries that do not show the will and ability to fight corruption. Because corruption in some countries is a long way off as part of a resounding tradition, one must be prepared, if necessary, to impose sanctions in order to force countries that are not willing to do anything about this problem, if possible. I noticed that the Council of State was strong in both choice of words and form in its reference to corruption as an obstacle to aid work. I assume that our Minister for Development and Human Rights has broad support in the Storting for the active and offensive line in the fight against corruption that she drew up in her presentation. Democracy is an important dimension of Norwegian aid policy, and the statement warns that democracy should be ‘more focused, more strategic, more ambitious’. The majority of the majority of the population provide clear support for such a policy. The Central Party is pleased that the Council of State underlines so strongly that in the work of democracy we must show humility and tolerance in relation to the traditions and culture of developing countries. Democracy can be organised in several ways. If the developing countries feel that they are being pushed into ways and principles that conflict with their own culture, democracy will be difficult to root out. So we should not export our solutions and our democracy models, but share experience and show respect both for the individual and for local diversity. The statement indicates that support for industrial development in the south is in the cast. The review of the use of instruments to promote investment in developing countries, which has been undertaken, includes, inter alia: in order to identify the main obstacles to Norwegian investment in developing countries, how we can improve current schemes and what new measures are needed to promote such investments. The strategy for industrial development in the south will be presented to the Stortinget once the review has been completed. In other words, the population is given a good opportunity to discuss this issue before a new strategy for industrial development in the south is put to work. With regard to the access of developing countries to the markets of industrialized countries, this was a key element in the debate on the current WTO conference in Seattle. The government has announced that Norway is ready to contribute to improving market access for the poorest developing countries in important markets. It may be worth noting that in the debate on 23 November the Government received broad support from the Storting for the negotiating process and the strategy put forward by Norway for the further – and important – WTO negotiations. The attitude of the Foreign Affairs Committee shows that there is a broad political outreach in the Stortinget on Norwegian aid policy. The right nuances somewhat, while the Progress Party is completely distanced from the principles of the majority of Norwegian policies in this area. The comments of the party in the position may otherwise be a closer study worth studying. The Progress Party believes – in full seriousness – that a number of conflicts on the African continent are due to financial assistance, that Norwegian aid has extended the war on Sri Lanka, and that food aid to address food shortages and hunger is disrupting local markets by pushing local prices. I have recorded in the debate so far that the Progress Party has not tried to document this and will not respond to whether the argument of disruption in local markets in food prices is an argument to stop food aid shipments to these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e691	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e694	To take the last of the representatives of Jacobsen first: of course, we do not believe – and never meant – that there is only one cause for conflict. Such causes are usually complex and diverse. I explained earlier in my article about Sri Lanka and the amount of appropriations for aid and the amount of expenditure for the military in Sri Lanka. The point here, of course, is also highlighted in the World Bank's report that means of warfare are being released. In the case of expensive conferences, etc., I remember a comment from a former Dutch colleague of mine who had been to a conference. He summarised the conference as follows: ‘Meeting, eating and retreating’. Now, the Center Party has not been known as the party that has been most eager to combat taxes, taxes and public intervention. However, I hope that the representative of Jacobsen can confirm that he is concerned that the aid should be as effective as possible, and that the issue of the administrative costs of the aid is of course relevant — and also in the extension of it that well paid unhelp workers in a number of developing countries constitute an upper class in these countries. It is precisely because the Progress Party takes the aid seriously and believes that the aid should be effective and is concerned with these issues, that we called for this to be included in the statement we are dealing with here today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e705	I think it is nice and good that Dag Danielsen is now moderating some of the formulations that have been included in the setting. However, with regard to this issue of the situation of the areas without food, it remains to be well explained what is in the setting and which must be seen as critical of the Progress Party for food aid, because in a deficit area certain problems can be created in the local market by the fact that few who produce food but produce too little can reduce their activity. This is what I have asked for documentation on earlier. When it comes to improving the efficiency of development aid, I can confirm that the Centre Party is very concerned about it, also because effective u-help is an important prerequisite for the Norwegian people to have confidence that Norwegian u-helpers are being used in such a way that they really have an effect. In this context, I am a little surprised by the Progress Party, because what I mentioned in my article on improving efficiency, is precisely that improved coordination nationally and internationally is one of the things that makes us look now at a trend towards a more effective use of unaided resources. It is then a bit peculiar that the Progress Party meets this positive coordination, with the effectiveness it has, with the following note that this ‘will require several international meetings and conferences, which in turn will require extensive and expensive air travel with stays at first-class hotels’. It does indeed show in a nutshell what the Progress Party is primarily concerned about, and therefore taxpayers have also been introduced into this debate in a traditional way by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e726	I registered that Johan J. Jakobsen did not comment at all on the issue of the introduction of the auctioning principle for meat from MUL countries in his post. This scheme will in practice transfer revenues from producers in developing countries to the Norwegian central bank. That is why, in the Right, we think it is promising that the Central Party is also involved in postponing this arrangement, which the Government in proposals for the government budget wants to introduce from the New Year. On the right, we are opposed to introducing this principle, but we accept in this round that a broad majority will have the matter back to the Storting before a final decision is taken. Nevertheless, we think that there are promising signals from the Central Party, and therefore I would just like to ask directly: is it so that the Central Party in the choice between supporting trade with developing countries and imposing excessive protection of Norwegian agricultural products or introducing schemes which also provide for part of the income of the Norwegian Treasury, has also come to the conclusion that they choose to support the weakest – in this case the poorest of the poorer countries?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e733	The representative Siri Frost Sterri was obviously surprised that in my post I did not present the issue of auctioning in connection with the import of meat from some developing countries. But Siri Frost Sterri actually replied to this herself, as she made it very clear that in the position underlying this debate, there is a common remark, where both the Right and the Center parties are in the majority, and where it is expressed that this is to be seen as part of the system to be reviewed. It has been said clearly from the Minister for Development and Human Rights, but also as late as yesterday's spontaneous question by the Prime Minister, that in this respect with the auctioning principle foreseen as of 1 January 2000 and supported by a majority in the Grand Duchy, there is a consensus and the Government has taken note that the system is not being implemented until further notice. It is not that the plan is terminated, but the system is not implemented from New Year, as the assumption was. So ask Siri Frost Sterri if what was said by my side represents a new line. I can confirm that it doesn't. When I talk about MUL imports, relations with the poorest countries and trade opportunities, I have stressed the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the government in which the Central Party participates – and which therefore also expresses itself on behalf of the Centre Party in such contexts – has said about this issue. If we go back to the question that was well under Siri Frost Sterris's line, namely the relationship with Norwegian agriculture, I refer both to what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said and what the Prime Minister said yesterday, namely that of course we must ensure the security mechanisms that have been put into the system and that there is also a broad consensus in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e742	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e745	Johan J. Jakobsen finished talking about what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said on behalf of the Central Party. Looking at today's edition of the Nations, we can record that the main body of the Central Party is very excited that many people are demonstrating against the WTO, against the negotiating position of the Norwegian Government and against the position of the Norwegian Government towards the World Trade Organisation. The thrill is, to use the sports spell, to take on and feel from the first to the last side of the nation. Having said that, I would ask the Minister for Development to pass on to the Minister for Foreign Affairs the view that was prominent in the Great Britain WTO debate last week. Clearly, the WTO is much more important for the development of the world's poor countries than what we are doing here. Everyone knows that. However, the WTO suffers from a fundamental weakness which does not have other similar negotiating systems, and there is a total lack of involving civil society in the negotiation process. I believe that much of what we have now seen in Seattle is a total lack of communication between state leaders and politicians in one reality and non-governmental organisations, NGOs, environmental organisations and people fighting for the poor, trade unions, etc. in another. These have to meet, these also have to talk, and it can only happen by developing systems like it was done, for example. in the Rio process, in the Kyoto process and in part of the others, so that civil society is also involved and has a direct role to play in the negotiations themselves. Trying to make this happen more would be a very important Norwegian contribution. As far as the statement is concerned, I believe that the most important thing that it says is what has been said and has been done in terms of debt. I want to pay tribute to the Minister for Development for having been very active in this area. Several of the speakers of the Centre Parties and the Workers' Party have also been concerned about the same thing, and that's good. But even though Norway has done things, we must not now, in self-satisfaction, strike our breasts. In fact, countries such as Zambia still pay more in repayment of debts than they have to spend on schools, education and health care in their own country – to illustrate the debt burden with a simple example. The pressure given through the Jubilee 2000 campaign needs to be exploited, so that we can now achieve more effective, real debt reduction internationally than we have achieved so far. I would like to ask the Minister for Development whether she believes it is reasonable that funds for multilateral debt should be taken from the aid budget. In reality, Norwegian aid money is used to cover either the World Bank’s debts — those taken into account — the debts of others or, where appropriate, the claims of private banks. Wouldn't it be more reasonable that the debt was actually extinguished? Harvard economist Jeffrey D. Sachs has been involved in various mechanisms in order to get it done, and I would challenge the Minister of Development to say something about whether there can be no other way to cover debts, which has often arisen in a way we wouldn't particularly appreciate, but to take money from the aid budget. I also want to challenge the Minister to grasp the lessons he has from the Asia crisis, and that means for the debt situation and the international financial systems. It is quite obvious that the Asia crisis immediately brought on many tens, perhaps more than 100 million, people a new poverty. Many people had lowered their standard of living, and it turned out that even relatively large and relatively — from the third world point of view — strong economies in Asia were very vulnerable to short-term fluctuations in financial markets. International bodies are needed to do something about this. There has been a thought about some form of international credit supervision or body independent of the Monetary Fund, the IMF, that could go in and provide advice and guidance in such situations. I don't think these thoughts are fully developed, but they should be developed further. I would also like to ask for an analysis of the experience gained in Malaysia. Malaysia is very far from being a special model. Prime Minister Mathahir was re-elected after an election campaign that was not particularly clean or pleasant, but Malaysia has tried something that no other country has tried, namely to address such a situation with different types of restrictions on capital movements. Everyone judged this north and down initially, everyone said that this was impossible, and that you can't gain trust on such a basis. I think everyone understands that this is ultimately the confidence of financial markets in a country that is crucial. If you don't want to build trust, it won't help to use such regulations. But what it seems so far is that Malaysia is actually doing well, is first regulating and then restoring trust, and then getting a double win. This may be too easy to conclude, but at least we should look at the experience that has been gained. Another significant feature of the statement is the conversion of the Peace Corps. That's positive, good and correct what's now done, but the next couple of years, when the new system comes into effect, is always crucial for how it will evolve further. The first years of a new system add a practice that is certainly going to be in force for years to come. It is therefore important for the Minister to put this in particular focus and report back to the Storting in a presentation or in other ways on the experience that has been gained, because, as I said, the start-up phase is very important. Finally, I would like to comment on a question that I am very concerned about, and that has been raised by many in the debate, both Marit Nybakk, Kukkestad from the Progress Party and others, namely that we need to politicise the assistance more. Kokkestad spoke as if it meant sitting in the Stortinget to grant money to special parties around the world, that's of course meaningless. But one of the things in the note of the Progress Party that someone has criticised here, but which is not completely senseless, is what is said about Africa's spending more money on unnecessary and harmful warriors than what is being supplied to Africa by aid. The result of such thinking for the Progress Party is that only police and military are to be sent down to these conflict areas, probably without getting any knowledge of them in advance. But a different approach is also possible: to look at what Norway can do to strengthen the forces that want peace in such areas, to look at what Norway can initially do to try to mediate and prevent a war from breaking out, and at how Norway can use its means to reduce poverty, which of course is always a prerequisite for war. When I say we should politicize the assistance, it's about three things. One is to create peace where war has arisen, or to prevent war from breaking out where possible. I think everyone understands that in countries like Sudan and Angola there will be famine every two years almost endlessly in the future unless the civil wars in these countries are stopped. So every single penny used to prevent and stop war in these countries is well used. And if you have to agree to take the gills leaders and heads of state to the most expensive hotels in the world, and if you have to give them caviar and Norwegian rugs at these hotels, it's reasonable use of Norwegian taxpayers' money if you get them to make peace, and it's much, much cheaper than sending military in to prevent war. So it's about democracy. Countries like North Korea and Burma are not themselves poor, it is the political system that keeps the countries in poverty. [[Solheim]] Norwegian contributions to direct relief to these countries are good and good, but Norwegian contributions that can facilitate the rational transformation of North Korea into a democratic system or that can create a dialogue between Aung San Suu Kyi and the military junta in Burma to resolve the political crisis in Burma will be much better spent money. A third element is entering conflict areas to see how to strengthen the media and others who want to achieve reconciliation. To give an example: the advance party taxpayers would be saved for countless billions of expenditure if, at an early stage, the forces in Bosnia that wanted reconciliation in the Balkans could be strengthened, and also prevented people like Milosevic from taking over the state power of a country like Serbia. politicisation is not to support a few individual parties; politicisation is to use the funds in a targeted way, so that it contributes to peace, contributes to democracy and contributes to reconciliation. I'm glad that these thoughts seem to gain increasing support. An area where this is now entirely required is in the conflict between Eritrea and Ethiopia. It is suggested that we should reduce aid to these areas, or at least look at the possibility of doing so. A very sensible use of Norwegian assistance there would be to see if it is possible to do more to use the money to create a peace process between Eritrea and Ethiopia. And once again, if that means bringing someone to an expensive hotel, do for all. Whether it means to send Jappe Eriksen or others around on trips with planes in the area, so do it. For everything that can be done to make peace between Eritrea and Ethiopia, will be among the most important investments we can make. It's a war of the kind of First World War, where countless people die, where you fight for almost nothing, and where the countries are held in poverty if we don't manage to stop this war. So if it's possible to take some new initiatives in this area, I'll challenge the Minister to explain them.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e781	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e784	There is little disagreement in the contributions of the representative, Mr Solheim, but then the Workers' Party and Mr SV very much agree on the aid policy. There was something Solheim said relatively early in the post, which I think was very interesting, and this is about involving civil society more in the context of the international conferences that take decisions of major importance for developing countries, and for that matter for conflict areas in general. We're aware that civil society just got involved when we now had the OSCE meeting in Istanbul. The private organizations got a meeting with the ministers and I think Solheim is right that there is a way to go. With regard to the future major conferences, whether it be women's conferences, conferences on population development or on the World Trade Organisation and driving rules in international trade, civil society should be more involved. I would also like to ask Mr Solheim whether he also agrees that developing countries need clearer driving rules in the WTO, whether it is not precisely the developing countries that will ultimately benefit from an economic relationship based on clear driving rules in the world society, and that isolation does not exactly lead to poverty. And since Solheim himself mentioned a country like North Korea in another context, it might be tempting to draw it out as an example of a country that is now about to go against a disaster because of its isolation policy. I also agree with a lot of what Solheim said about politicising assistance. A question is whether, in some cases — in addition to the areas for which Solheim was mentioned as channelling funds — funds could be transferred either to multilateral organisations or as regional appropriations as an alternative to land allocations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e796	Isolation is death, economic. That's a very clear lesson from the last few decades. This does not mean that some sectors cannot be screened in some countries, but the only way to develop has been through the open, outgoing economy. There are two forms of isolation in the world. One is the one that political leaders put on their people, one can say that there is a degree of volunteering in countries like North Korea, for example, but isolation is not voluntary from the population, but voluntary from the leaders. It is economically unimaginable harmful. The other form is the involuntary isolation that very large parts of Africa suffer, that they are not interesting to the world's centres of power at all. To say it very harshly and brutally: If Africa had disappeared in the Indian Ocean, it would not affect the New York Stock Exchange many tenths, almost no world thing. Bill Gates has no Burundi strategy or Rwanda strategy, and IBM's board never discusses how to increase market share in Angola. That kind of isolation is also very, very dangerous. We agree on this. As far as the WTO is concerned, I believe that, in general, more dialogue between civil society and this kind of political process or state leadership process should be established, but that is particularly required in the WTO, because the WTO has been much more closed to it than other processes. I think it'll be a double learning of it. Although political leaders are democratically elected, as they are in Norway, there can always be a risk of developing an elite culture away from civil society, and many countries' political leaders are not democratically elected either. So politicians will learn from getting civil society into, but civil society will probably also learn – many of the voluntary organisations will also benefit from meeting politicians in dialogue. Then it would, for example, become clear that the requirements of the organisations demonstrating in Seattle are going in a different direction. Many demonstrate with the very opposite starting point to the absolutely opposite requirement. But as long as it all happens the way it does now, this doesn't come out.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e807	I don't think I'm the only one who thinks Erik Solheim is an exciting and colorful politician. But I can't get away with a heart attack: sometimes when Erik Solheim talks, I feel committed to a world parliament and not Norway's national assembly. The task of a politician must also be to align objectives and resources with each other. Of course, Norway should contribute internationally, but we are, after all, a small country in the world. We should also allow the EU, NATO, the United States and other heavy players in the world community to take a good share of the tasks we are obviously considering here. This was mentioned with conflicts in Africa, and of course there is a general consensus that what can be done on the prevention side is the best. Norway should also play a role here, but in relation to the small country we are all about, and in relation to some other actors in international society. But when it's said that the prevention business is completely basic, I would also say that it's unfortunately sometimes that once that train has completely gone, it's just the military resources again. It is absolutely essential that in such a situation we have them, and here the SV is not in my opinion the party that has contributed the most. SV's position here is enough that there are others who are going to do it for us. But if we are to follow the consequences of SV's budgetary policy here, Norway becomes a free passenger and not a country that shows solidarity. It was referred to Bosnia and Kosovo, and if this policy were to be put into practice, it would be impossible to do anything at all.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e816	My point of view is probably quite simple and banal, namely that Norway should do what we can to make the world a little bit better. Each of us 165 should also do the very small thing we can do – and it's often very small – to make the world better. We're not going to be a world parliament, and it's not even certain that everything in the world would have been so much better if we had more influence. There are probably a lot of people who think that had only been 80 million Northmen and 4 million Germans, instead of the other way around, but it's not so sure that the world had become so much better of it. But now let the philosophical things lie. Where I differ fundamentally from the Progress Party, it is not in terms of the willingness to use military resources when a crisis has developed as far as Bosnia and Kosovo – that is where we stood – but it is in terms of whether we should have done something substantial and substantial to prevent the crisis from developing so far. Kosovo is the star example of this. When the crisis developed in Kosovo throughout the 1990s, the Progress Party felt it was entirely safe to send refugees back. It was about depicting the situation in Kosovo so pink that every Kosovar Albanian could be sent down there. The former vice president of the party claimed at the time that they could only learn Serbo-Romatic, because it was the country's own language. In short, as long as the crisis in Kosovo developed, the Progress Party would not do anything, would not spend a single penny of taxpayers' money down there, would not even help to illustrate the situation in Kosovo in such a realistic way that it could get attention and lead to a political debate here. But when you had closed your eyes for nine years, you suddenly opened them and said, "Send the marines." I might think that my approach is not only cheaper for taxpayers, but also smarter, namely trying to do something gradually and all the way, and see if the small thing we can do to prevent conflict from arising by creating safe social and economic conditions and by running mediation first, can be worth trying before sending military personnel in an emergency.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e827	Erik Solheim began his post by philosophizing a little about the relations between the government parties here in Stortinget and the respective trade councils, here specifically referred to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Erik Solheim represents a party that has never been in government, and it is possible that he is then a little stranger to that idea and the system that, after all, works between collapse and government, that when one sits in a cooperative government and the foreign minister makes a statement in the Storting, the Foreign Minister actually represents three parties. Just as when Minister of Local and Regional Affairs Odd Roger Enoksen, who is the head of the Central Party, makes a regional political statement in the Stortinget, he represents not only the Central Party, but actually three parties. So Erik Solheim pulls the line forward and refers to today's look-up in the nation, as I understand it, has expressed a positive opinion about the demonstrations taking place in Seattle in connection with the WTO negotiations. I cannot see that there is anything particularly alarming than that Bill Clinton and the EU negotiator have also stressed the importance of the fact that the signals coming from the protesters in Seattle are actually taken seriously. And although we in the Central Party believe that the WTO is necessary because we need a system of driving rules in international trade, for my part I have also made it clear that there are many good reasons to put a critical light on parts of the WTO process. But when Erik Solheim chose to focus on this, it might be interesting to hear whether he also believes that part of the signals coming from the protesters in Seattle can actually be useful, and that it is important that this is respected and taken into account in the further negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e834	When the centre party is attacked by SV, Johan J. Jakobsen always tends to answer that it is because SV has not been in government. I think when Johan J. Jakobsen answers that, it's because he knows that it's a bit painful for us. We very much want to sit in government, and I won't tell you any secret by saying that. I think Kristin Halvorsen, for example. could become an excellent Minister of Education. I really want to play the ball back to Johan J. Jakobsen, because it's just in his power to help get this done, because we've made it very clear that we'd very much like to sit in a government with, for example. The Workers' Party and the Center Party. We have not even excluded the Christian People's Party in such coalitions. So if Johan J. Jakobsen can take this home as a homeworker and philosophize more about it, then we'll probably be able to talk about how we can get this dream fulfilled, and contribute to the training it might be. And I also don't ignore the fact that in such a situation you will be able to find organs that are close to SV, which will be about as critical of the government as the nation is of the present government. So also that would probably be fulfilled. So to the serious -- although it's serious, what I've been talking about now also: we need a dialogue between the WTO and civil society, and I agree that the demonstrations in Seattle are useful, there can be no doubt about it. These negotiations, which are also necessary and useful, take place to a great extent in a separate political sphere, without real dialogue with the many organisations for the poor, for the environment, for trade unions, etc. They have now put the search light on that. But we also have to be aware that among the demands promoted by the demonstrators, there are many that are different from each other. Some people want to help developing countries gain free market access for agricultural products, others defend agricultural interests in rich countries, so some want to help developing countries, while others, for example. wish to set the standard for social measures and anti-dumping clauses, etc., which will have the exact opposite effect.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e843	Solheim's creative production of the Progress Party and Kosovo will be allowed to lie. But as for the question of politicizing the u-help, I would nevertheless like to make a few small comments before the question. It is true that assistance to groups and their projects, possibly in relation to geriatrics, geriatrics, etc., will have to be of some importance. Focusing on improving conditions in areas controlled by specific groups will have to be of relevance to the inter-group and inter-gay leaders. If there are more people working for democracy, politicisation is likely to also have an impact on the relationship of strength when new democracy is to choose its leaders. But what seemed perhaps most interesting to me was Solheim's clear message that political systems themselves can be the basis for the problems. I also assume that Solheim wants and sees the need for useful and stable framework conditions. This means that Solheim and SV want to look at the possibility of sanctions, possibly stopping assistance, where countries do not introduce and enforce the necessary framework conditions, such as ownership, etc.?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e852	The objections raised by André Kukkestad are most relevant. If you want to go the way that I want to go, and that we have already gone a good way – Norway is currently contributing in many conflict areas with funds that directly or indirectly support one party, or at least support democratisation, for example. – it is clear that you face such problems as: Can we do enough? Can we get wrong? Can we indirectly support movements that are gradually evolving in a direction that we do not want? All these objections are highly relevant. But it's a way we're already going, and it's a way that requires you to have knowledge of the conflict areas you're engaging in. But at my discretion, it is the only possible way to go if you want to help prevent war from occurring, to dampen war once it has arisen, to meddle and end war and to strengthen democracy. For example, when Norway in many indirect ways: support the Burmese opposition, we take a position on it – we believe it is necessary to engage in a dialogue between the Burmese opposition and the military dictatorship in Burma. We're not completely neutral and say it's the same thing who rules in Burma, we don't have any assumptions to judge. We say that we support the opposition, we want them to take over the power of the country, or, preferably, that we have a dialogue between the opposition and the government, which, at the end of the day, can create peace and thus development. I see no alternative to going such a way, but I agree that there are many objections to it. But the strongest objection to the Progress Party and the view of Kvankstad is that if there is nothing to prevent conflict from occurring, nothing to contribute to democracy, then we will again have a colossal bill in the form of international disorder, war and destruction, and for the part with a situation in which Norwegian taxpayers' funds, in the opinion of the Progress Party, will be deployed to clean up the military when the war has become only large enough.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e859	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e862	Trade is more important than assistance has been said in a number of contexts, and it has been included in today's debate also on the grounds that UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan has underlined it in connection with the ongoing WTO negotiations. This means that there is a link between the situation of the developing countries and the WTO system and the negotiations we hope will begin if we are able to draw up a mandate for the negotiations. That, of course, also means that the mandate for the negotiations is important. It is important to stress that the Government and the Storting have taken this into account through the mandate of the negotiations and what we will later want with regard to the negotiations within the WTO framework, precisely that participating in and caring for the interests of developing countries is part of what is Norway's ambition. Then we'll have to acknowledge and take into account that there may be different needs for different developing countries. But for my part, there is a pointless and completely incomprehensible link between the fact that trade is more important than helping in the next round to say something in the sense that thus aid becomes less important than it has been in the past. The fact that something is more important than anything else is not the same as that this other person is thus of little importance, or for that matter less important than it has been before. That is why we would like to make it clear that, on the left, we see assistance as a very important area of Norwegian policy, and that, as I have said here, this is the Left's position: trade is important; aid is important. So to another question that has shaped the debate a little bit, and that's the relationship between the level of assistance and the question of the quality and the content of the assistance we're doing. It becomes completely incomprehensible to me when, at least this is how it is presented, the representative Siri Frost Sterri from the Right almost makes it a point that we must have less assistance in order to improve the quality of the assistance. That's almost how I perceive the argument from her side. And it also makes sense, in my view, because one is a debate on quality, objectives and how we are going to achieve these objectives, and the other is a debate on what level we are going to have on development aid. Now, of course, if the last billion we provide in development aid is ineffective, it's okay to say that this is going to give you $1 billion. less. But I don't think that's what will in any way be the situation in terms of assistance. With regard to the attitude of the Progress Party, I don't think I'm going to sacrifice too much time on it, except that there was one positive element at the end of the reply given by the representative Danielsen to the undersigned, because then he actually went into some premise and assessments of assistance and aid policy. And the positive thing about it is that those assessments actually assume that there is an aid that the Progress Party is opposed to. It would be a significant step forward if the Progress Party could participate with greater credibility in issues related to the quality and content of Norwegian assistance because they are actually concerned about providing assistance, and thus they are really being justified on the issue. When we say that trade is important, it assumes that you have something to deal with. And that means that there is an important need for industrial development in developing countries and to facilitate it. Industrial development again requires a functioning society – a functioning state and a functioning legal society – and, I will come back to that, democracy. It is therefore positive that significant emphasis is placed on the issue of the strategy for industrial development in the south in the statement made by the Council of State and in the committee position. It is very positive that the Government has set up close cooperation here with the Norwegian industry, trade unions and non-governmental organisations to further develop such a strategy, and the initiative of the Southern Enterprise Development Forum is a good and sensible contribution to this work. In this context, there is once again reason to stress the importance of debt and debt relief in helping developing countries to have an economy that provides opportunities for economic development and trade. One of the most important things that has been achieved, in addition to the Norwegian contribution, is that this has also been speeded up in international work for the purpose of indebtedness and indebtedness. Then there's another important question, and that's how we implement our assistance. It is important, as the Council of State has done, to focus on the need to enable the beneficiary countries to participate in the aid process and to ensure interoperability with the countries providing it, so that it becomes coordination and impact, and that the recipient countries do not spend more time and capacity to care for the providers than to develop their own society. This is an important part of Norwegian aid policy. Such effective assistance also requires as little binding as possible from developing countries. It will be part of the process of maximising the impact of assistance. Therefore, there is strong support for what is called decoupling, which is a central point of the presentation and to which the Government is working in the international context to gain agreement, and for which it may also appear that increased support has been obtained. I am, for my part, little concerned about Norwegian business as regards such unhelp-making processes, because I feel quite confident that Norwegian business will have the competence and quality to be able to participate in aid projects, and – to put it bluntly – that you should not have the necessary skills and competitiveness, it is perhaps also right that you should not be in this case. But, of course, it is an important point that there must be real competitive tendering in this context, even in the sense that professional and social rights are not part of what you can compete with. It shall lie there as an important premise. As far as other objectives are concerned, I would say that for the Left, we end up with the poverty facility, that we should be concerned with women and equality in the context of aid, and health and education. In this context, I would also like to remind you that it is important to address human rights and environmental issues. Finally, I would like to say a little about democracy and the development of democracy. Several times, in debates like this one, I have stated that there is an important link between increased free trade and increased democracy in developing countries, because it is a prerequisite that the development that increased trade contributes to benefit all citizens. In this context, I would also like to highlight the point of transparency and that part of the development of democracy is about increasing transparency in individual developing countries and getting a better functioning civil society and a legal society that also works. Then we're on top of what was a central point, perhaps the main point, in the Council of State's presentation, namely the fight against corruption. I would like to stress that corruption thrives best the less openness it is, the worse society it is and the less democracy it is, so here it is a clear and important context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e894	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e897	I listened with interest to what the representative Hove said about decoupling, and that gives me an opportunity to try to problem the actual decoupling. Howe did an attempt, but, in my opinion, did not go far enough. It is important to get the nutrition strategy to the Storting, precisely in order to try to address the problem of decoupling. In its ultimate consequence, unprecautions can mean much more brutal tendering rules in the international community, more contracts to the strong multinational companies, which do not serve the interests of the developing countries at all, and another consequence that we get on the purchase, is that Norwegian companies then lose contracts that they have had for very many years. I'm not sure if it has any intention of stopping the deliveries of a fish hermetic factory to the UN Food Organisation, which it has had over a number of years, and then it goes to a Canadian company, which is subsidised by the Canadian government. If we are to ensure that assistance provides for soft values and social rights, we should also ensure that the decoupling takes a form and a device that prevents this kind of rash, and I ask that the Hove comment on it, as he was so very concerned about getting such a decoupling.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e907	It is rarely problem-free, and that therefore it may be right to problematize questions, I agree with. When you are in a process, in this case a process towards less bonding, of course, it will also be right in that process to care for those who have been involved before – in other words, to provide at least a certain period of liquidation and an opportunity to adapt to new situations and conditions. As I was also inside, and perhaps not enough was said about, I would like to make it very clear that this does not have to be a competition for bad social and professional rights. There is a point in that context, which I think it is very important to be clear, that it is precisely through the conditions of competition that we draw up. But at the same time, I would like to say and underline – we are not sure that we disagree so much about it, the representative Nybakk and I – that I will not be so much concerned about Norwegian business in such a situation, provided that there are similar conditions of competition. With regard to the example that Nybakk's representative drew up of Canadian hermetics, which at the same time provides State aid, we are in the very situation that we have different conditions of competition, and that is of course part of what we have to work with in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e916	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e919	Let me first say that peace is a fundamental prerequisite for development, and that preventing war by investing in peace and political work is crucial. We do that, and we'll do more of that. One of the main obstacles to development is debt problems. One of the most important international challenges is therefore the eradicating of unindebtedness. Unfortunately, the improvement and extension of the September HIPC mechanism has not yet been fully funded. In order to secure funding, two things are particularly important: the rich G-7 countries should pay a greater share of the bill, and the debt burden should not be financed by the World Bank resources to be lent to other poor countries. This will be followed up by the Government. This fight must be won first. I find it relatively difficult, if not impossible, to get any international agreement on depreciation rather than funding through appropriations, as the situation is now. Of course, it would have been best, and I share the concern of Solheim's representative that the resources are draining the aid budgets here. That is why I am pleased that we in Norway at least ensure that bilateral debt is granted in an additional way, without actually taking one penny from the aid budget. Trade is also important. Many of the poorest developing countries have little other than agricultural products, clothing and textiles to offer for foreign currency. They need satisfactory prices for their products, access to important export markets and the means to modernise or convert their output. The framework conditions for international trade are therefore extremely important for these countries. This is part of the background for the Government to focus attention on developing countries in the context of WTO negotiations. Of course, we will also include the question of civil society participation in the WTO context in the continuation. As far as the strategy for industrial development in the south is concerned, I am pleased with the support that emerges from the setting, and I would like to link some comments to some aspects. The economy of developing countries is the target of efforts. The measure of our success is whether there is value creation in the south. In order to achieve this, we want to play on teams with Norwegian businesses, so that there is an increase in investment in poor countries. In the design of the strategy, we have had an active and positive dialogue with the business community. This dialogue continues, both in the forum I am chairing, and in the working groups mentioned in the annex to the vote. The conclusions of the ongoing investigation into investment schemes will be presented in the new year. Even now, I can assure you of one thing: the government will not propose conversions that weaken the instrument we have here today. No arrangements will be proposed until new and better schemes are in place. Once the various investigations have been completed, the Government will also present the main content of these and the strategy to the Stortinget. Let me link some comments to the decoupling issue, especially in the international context. It is true that a number of countries, the United Kingdom, the United States, Belgium, the Netherlands, Sweden and Norway, are now working for an international consensus on the decoupling of aid to LDCs. A couple-three countries are still strong opponents of this. They may block consensus in the OECD. With the possible continuation of the process outside the OECD, we will only join in solutions that most of the Member States can pool. For Norwegian business, it is important to note that decoupling will open up far larger markets in countries other than the Norwegian market. At the same time, we want to work with developing countries to improve their tender systems and to contribute to greater health, environmental and safety requirements and maintenance aspects than before being incorporated into the tender specifications. We will follow this up, and as a result, developing countries will have a better product than before. Of course, within such improved frameworks, Norwegian business must be able to compete, both on price and quality. I think it's possible. I also fully agree with the emphasis placed on basic professional rights being respected and other discriminatory practices not taking place. An important element of the strategy for industrial development in the south is better coordination of trade policy and development policies. Against this background, the Government takes note that the Committee requests that the auctioning principle be submitted for consideration in the context of the strategy and that it is requested not to be implemented from 1 January 2000. Democracy was at the heart of my presentation. It is gratifying that there is a cross-political consensus on this. I also agree with the emphasis of the Committee on Civil Society and its commitment. Let me mention that in the follow-up we have set up a separate department in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for Human Rights, Democracy and Humanitarian Aid. Here, too, the development of democracy related to crises and conflicts will come in, to which several representatives have been involved today. A plan for Norwegian democracy will be presented in the spring of next year. As part of this work, we've had meetings with most of the parties that are represented on the Stortinget. We are also in dialogue with key international actors. The challenge in the future will be to make the best use of Norwegian democratic culture in an appropriate and sensitive way in development cooperation. I look forward to continuing dialogue on this. Democracy development is also important for the fight against corruption. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and NORAD have established close cooperation with Norwegian professionals and the international resource environment, including Transparency International, the World Bank and the United Nations, in the fight against corruption. NORAD will present an action plan in this field by the end of the year. Efforts in several pilot countries will also be included here. In Nicaragua, Norway, together with Switzerland, has recently joined an EU démarche in connection with the prison of the country’s national auditor. I agree that it will also be important to focus attention on actors in the north that promote corruption. This perspective will be part of our further work. We also focus on quality and performance with regard to voluntary organisations. A recent review of evaluations and project reviews by 21 organisations gives a positive main impression, but at the same time shows that there is room for improvement. In the case of Tanzania and Nicaragua, the role of organisations is considered unclear in relation to other cooperation and the country’s own development strategy. To go deeper into this, we are now carrying out an evaluation of Norwegian efforts through non-governmental organisations in Nicaragua. Here we will draw on the experience of the Danish study to which the committee position refers. I will of course consider how we can best follow up the setting also on this point. I am particularly pleased that the majority of the Foreign Affairs Committee supports the Government's proposal to convert the Peace Corps. The work on the conversion has engaged me strongly. It's about creating opportunities for young people to make an effort, while promoting learning and understanding. This means that we also open up peace corps workers from developing countries in Norway. It's a new and important element. This also means that the Peace Corps must engage in a wide range of groups, institutions and organisations, so that cooperation can flourish far beyond traditional aid actors. If the Storting follows up these signals and joins the draft budget at this point, the Peace Corps will be established in new themes throughout the New Year. Of course, I will report back to Stortinget about the experience, as some representatives have requested. If we are to achieve better results in development cooperation, we need a shift towards greater coordination, including: through the so-called Comprehensive Development Framework. The majority of the Committee on Foreign Affairs here points out that consistency should be a stronger regional approach, and the Government agrees. At the same time, I would like to point out that one of the most important requirements from developing countries to donors is that economic transfers should be stable and committed in the longer term. The political and practical consequences of such a coordination effort are still well ahead of society. We are also facing major challenges from the Norwegian side. In the future, close dialogue between government and growth will be needed to adapt Norwegian development policies to the requirements that stronger national governance on the recipient side and increased donor coordination will respond to our efforts. In fact, this is a significant conversion. In recent years, international cooperation on development policy issues has gained momentum and vitality. The need for coordination of assistance in the framework of a comprehensive national policy has been given great weight through the initiatives of the World Bank and the United Nations. Indebtedness and poverty reduction are at the centre. We've got new and heavy allies in development cooperation. This is not only true on the bilateral side through offensive development ministers in several central donor countries. This is not least the change that has taken place in international financial institutions, in the World Bank and in the IMF, in the fight against poverty. This promises well before the millennial change. In order to follow this trend, it may be interesting to see whether the impact and consequences we have seen of the Asia crisis will also lead to new discussions as to whether it is possible to establish a completely different discussion and other types of institutions in relation to capital movements and financing issues. These are clearly complicated relationships. There is a discussion in the World Bank and the IMF about the structures of the Interim Committee, in the Development Committee. Here we follow very closely from the Norwegian side. We are concerned that all countries should be involved in the discussion and that it should not be isolated to a desperate country that the G7 countries and others have picked out. Developing countries and countries such as Norway should also participate in these important discussions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e962	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e965	I can subscribe to most of what the Minister for Development said, and I am very pleased with what she said about progress and work in relation to the nutrition strategy and the decoupling issue. In St. prp. No 1 as the Government is aware, the Government proposed to introduce an auctioning principle for imports of meat from the least developed countries with effect from 1 January. Such import licence auctions already exist for some other unlanded products, and there has been and is a certain uncertainty as to whether such a principle is effective as an obstacle to imports in practice. Both in the financial position and in the current position of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the majority requests that the auctioning principle be presented to the Stortinget for treatment as part of the strategy for industrial development in the south, and I am pleased that the Council of State specifies that it will be done. I would also ask the State Council to confirm that the auctioning principle is not being implemented until the Stortinget has dealt with the matter in the context of the nutrition strategy. The Foundation for Social and Economic Research, SNF, has commissioned the Government to investigate the auction principle and the consequences of the auctioning principle. I would ask the Council of State to base the further processing on a broader analysis and examination of the auctioning principle than the SNF investigation. I think there is a need for an investigation or an assessment of the auctioning principle in relation to the strategy for industrial development in the south. That is also why we in the Foreign Affairs Committee have come to the conclusion that there is a proper place to deal with this matter, including in the coordination of development policy and trade policy issues, as the Minister for Development himself stressed in his intervention.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e976	Just to underline it: the Government takes note of the observations made in the suspension regarding the auction principle, and that is a natural consequence of the fact that there is no implementation of this principle from 1 January 2000. So to the other issues that the representative Nybakk raised: As she quite rightly pointed out, there is an investigation by the SNF, to which it is referred in St.prp. No 1 and it is probably also true that there are certain uncertainties about the practice of this principle in previous experience. With regard to the specific issue raised by the representative, namely the need for a broader analysis so that this can be seen in the context of the strategy for industrial development in the south and the experience gained, the Government will, of course, follow up the requests made in this Chamber. I would like to point out from my point of view that it may be useful that this is done through an independent or external assessment, so that you can get a supplement to the investigation that the Stortinget has already received through the SNF, and the Government will then look at how best to respond to the request made by the representative Nybakk.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e983	The Council of State referred to three essential points for development in poor countries. One of the three points was trade, where she herself said: «The government places emphasis on developing countries». Yeah, I guess. In my speech, I pointed out that the Government has a ambiguous relationship with facilitating the ability of developing countries to trade, and Marit Nybakk just raised the issue of introducing the auctioning principle for sales on the Norwegian market of MUL meat. This GSP scheme for MUL countries has itself a security mechanism capable of triggering customs duties. That is what we think on the Right is unfortunate, because there are even greater difficulties in marketing this meat on the Norwegian market – there are enough problems in themselves. With the proposal to introduce auctioning arrangements, which in themselves have not been withdrawn from the Government’s side – postponement of implementation until it has been discussed in a broader context – imports will no longer be free of customs duties, because funds will have to be paid into the Treasury in the event of auctioning of the allowances. In other words, this scheme will transfer income from producers in developing countries to the Norwegian State Treasury, resulting in MUL countries remaining as losers. This is bad aid policy. I really assume that the Council of State agrees with this, but ask her for the sake of order to confirm it. I can, however, also for safety reasons, in order to form a broad majority behind this wish from the Workers' Party, say that we also think it is an advantage when this is now to be examined in more detail, that it is made as broad as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e993	I will stand by what I said in my speech, namely that we are focusing on the concerns of developing countries in trade policy as well. The main sign of this is probably the GSP scheme that we have in Norway, which in international terms is actually quite generous, and in many cases more generous than the other country has. There is also some background to the fact that the EU proposal actually involves the same system that Norway has in relation to the WTO negotiations, and it is considered by several EU countries to be relatively offensive, while it is actually the same system that Norway has today. The GSP scheme also includes countries such as Botswana and Namibia, which we are familiar with as non-MUL countries, and it is a wish from Norway, which was adopted in 1995, to meet poor countries and also non-MUL countries, with favourable trading conditions. We stand by – and are pleased – the GSP system we have. As far as the auctioning principle is concerned, I would like to refer to the clarification made by the Government that an introduction of the auctioning principle should not lead to a reduction in imports, and that it should therefore be evaluated in the autumn of 2000 – it was under the premise that it should be implemented from 1 January 2000 – in order to ensure that this did not result in a reduction in trade and a reduction in imports from the MUL countries as a result of the introduction of such an arrangement. In addition, I would like to refer to the recent WTO debate, where there was a great deal of excitement on the part of the Stortinget on the line that the Government was making here, where it was also open to considering other measures, which go beyond what the EU proposal is making, provided that they are linked to adequate security mechanisms, and that there is a broad consensus on the proposal from other industrialised countries and the countries of Norway cooperate with in the WTO context. I feel that we can stand by actually doing a lot with the developing countries and improving their trading conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e1000	The main picture of the areas we are discussing today is that the Centre Parties, the Workers' Party and the SV agree on the broad lines of policy, although we can distinguish between shades and details. And I continue to give the Council of State the honor of having contributed to important and positive conversions, such as. The Peace Corps is an expression. I think that is absolutely necessary. The peace corps were stiffened after many, many years and need that renewal. I will also give her credit for being offensive on debt. I am also pleased that both the centre parties and the Workers' Party are increasingly stressing the need for politicisation of aid, among other things. in the importance of contributing to peace processes in many places. Eritrea and Ethiopia have been mentioned as a possible example in an area we might be able to see if it was going to do more. There is now a report from an internal working group in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that, as far as I can understand, will help to make this much more difficult to achieve. It is covered in the final section of the Aid Act and the essence of their proposals is to put in place a wide range of aid schemes, which are now directly below the Ministry, under NORAD, and to make it part of NORAD's activities. Without prejudice to the fact that I do not remember errors, this is about support for the former Yugoslavia, for the Middle East and a series of other countries, which are essential if we are to be able to play that role with more political assistance. I'm very sceptical about this. On the one hand, it will make the system much less flexible. One of the main reasons why Norway has been able to play a significant role in some peace processes is that the same people who have been involved in mediation also have the resources to — so to speak — lubricate that mediation. Other countries that have such a clearly shared relationship as, for example, the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. Canada, for that very reason, is completely excluded from playing such a role. In addition, NORAD has no culture for this political thinking. NORAD’s culture — and it’s not wrong — is about education, water drilling, road construction, infrastructure. It is not about influencing political processes. So I ask that it be thought again about this report.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e1009	In various lectures I have given, I have said the following: aid is more and more policy, and policies are more and more aid. With that, I have also restricted myself to foreign policy self-interests as the governing body in this context, and I have restricted myself to commercial business interests as the governing body for our priorities. That is not what we mean by politicisation, or politics, but it is actually that we must have a much stronger and tougher political dialogue with our countries of cooperation on political priorities. It is also linked to the field in which Solheim’s representative was involved, namely contributing to peace processes, and contributing to a synergy between aid policy instruments and policy processes. We're actively working on that. We've also done it in relation to Ethiopia and Eritrea. There we have sent, among other things. Jappe Erichsen and others at expensive hotels, and we would like to continue if it can contribute to peace. I would also like to show that, although that is not all that comes in the media, we are also engaged in peace processes in other contexts. I myself actively participate in another process in that context. This is something we spend a lot of time and effort in the department. So the question about the report of an internal working group in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to which the representative refers was referred in the Aid section. I would like to stress that this report forms part of several reports aimed at reforming and modernising the EEAS, including: in relation to the many experiences of being stuck with very small, detailed application procedures, which are a bit of a background for enormous resource use in some areas compared to others. This is one of the reasons why these working parties have been set up and brought forward. The investigation is on consultation in the house, initially at the level of the various departments, and it will come up to political leadership later. I would, of course, like to take a close look at the hearing opinions that come from the department. I am sure the Minister for Foreign Affairs will do the same. On that basis, we will draw our conclusions. It is quite clear that the perspectives that Solheim's representative draws up are among the serious points and conditions that we draw into this very assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e1017	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e1020	This is how we in this house draw up certain guidelines and allocate a lot of money to this aid work. Then there are a lot of actors to put this into practice. Organisations and administrations of different types shall enter into this picture and ensure that this assistance is as effective as possible. There is today some division of tasks and some coordination, but it should definitely be a lot better than it is today. This is not just an internal Norwegian relationship. We also need to look at what is happening in total aid work at international level. These are huge and violent tasks, and one understands that it may be difficult to do it in a very structured way, but the Council of State and her duties are well in trying to coordinate this work better than is the case today. I mention this to give a signal that that work can expect support from the Workers' Party and certainly from the Stortinget as a whole. Then I will be allowed to follow up a bit of what has been said about our neighbourhoods – even though they are not all very close. In the fall of the Soviet Union, we got some new independent states. I am not talking here about Russia or the Baltic countries – and for other reasons I am not talking about Ukraine or Belarus either – but countries like Georgia, Armenia, the Caucasus and Central Asia etc. It's about countries in Russia's backyard, seen from our geographic location. When the Soviet Union fell, the bottom also fell out of the market for these countries. Production stagnated in total. Lack of civil structures left the whole country open to subcultures that were in many ways dominated by criminals and profitors. This is a country that has a decline in its standard of living. To quote the case rapporteur on case No. 1: This is work with which we have little experience. We have experience of poverty that has existed there over time. One goes in order to raise the standard of living in these countries. So here we are facing countries that have a higher standard of living but are on their way down. They have a high level of education. There is a high scientific level, and for us this is also unknown country in the most traditional meaning of the term. After 70 years of isolation, we have little knowledge, little knowledge of these countries. Now the representative Scarbøvik said on direct questions about these countries that the Christian People's Party has a poverty priority. Let me then show that ODA statistics show that economics are more of these countries in line with the poor countries of Africa. Some are below this level. Another thing is that these countries are going down, and then we should ask ourselves if it becomes more difficult and difficult to achieve results the longer we wait to enter with a greater emphasis on efforts in these countries. With proper and agreed efforts today, the results may be relatively rapid, but there must be efforts to address democracy, civil structures, equality, the environment, international contacts and investment, etc. This is probably very important to get started as quickly as possible, because if this is a region that is actually going down in several ways, and much indicates that it will be harder and harder, heavier and heavier to take back and get something done with it. Now I don't think there's going to be any competition with Africa in and out, but I don't think, for example, that the government party's Christian People's Party's involvement, almost as a principle that it's going to be used 50 pst. in Africa, is a particular analytical or good strategic approach to the problems we face.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e1031	If people are to be helped for self-help, transfers of funds are not the only ones that give the desired results. The aid that may be appropriate in a disaster context will be counterproductive if the transfers are given a more lasting impact. Expectations are then created by the recipient and that the country's own market for the production of the necessary goods will collapse. This provides a spiral that does not help many other people than those who live by providing assistance over time. The crucial thing for the poor people in the developing world is that they also have to share in the development of wealth in their respective countries. The construction of a well-functioning business will then be crucial. It is only when aid transfers are traded that the regime of the developing countries will see it as necessary and desirable to engage everyone, including the poor, in order to achieve the desired increased standard of living. Only when the responsible authorities see that corruption is a problem for themselves and their own will they address this and similar problems. Trade also has other important aspects than increased material wealth. Increased living standards also provide opportunities to take an interest in and participate in societal governance. At the same time, trade provides important impulses from outside the world on democracy and human rights. A trading activity that includes citizens is the best and most long-term support for democratisation. But the assumption of sustained rise is predictable trading conditions over a longer period of time. They depend on framework conditions, both nationally and internationally. Changes in tariffs, quotas and the like are unfortunate if they do not move towards major free trade and market access, thus providing stability. National framework conditions must be such that stability can be trusted over time. As a minimum, the legal conditions, such as ownership, contract law and the like, must be in place. This is a minimum to know what you're dealing with. Corruption and unnecessary red tape will prevent the blossoming of small and medium-sized enterprises, which in turn can adapt to market changes. A number of permits, etc. based on judgemental considerations, it will also create unnecessary uncertainty and give rise to problems in several areas. Of course, there is no point in rules that are not enforced. Therefore, the enforcement of rules and the fight against organised crime must also be essential for progress. These are circumstances for individual countries to and must do on an independent basis and for which they themselves have full responsibility. The problem is particularly serious if assistance prevents or delays this necessary reform. The development of poor countries is and does not fall by the percentage of budgets transferred to individual countries. The potential and desire of developing countries to participate in trading activities with a predictable framework and market access is crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e1046	Assistance is beneficial. There are many examples. Nevertheless, the gap between rich and poor in the world is increasing, and the most basic need that humans have, namely the need for water and food, is still unmet in a large part of the earth's population. The daily struggle to survive, the fight for food and water, prevents many from participating in the struggle for democracy and development. At the beginning of a new millennium, people are still living under conditions such as in the times of slavery and the feudal system, although history should have taught us all that combating poverty and exploitation are important contributions to development, stability, security and peace. Enough clean drinking water should be a ready-to-use human right. Lack of this particularly affects women and children, by diarrhea, disease and death, and the fact that the majority of all the millions who labor hard for their daily drinking water are just women. Aid has provided clean water for many, led to a better and safer life, and time has been freed for other purposes. At the same time, we see that increasing water scarcity is creating major problems in many parts of the world. During the 20th century, world water consumption has increased dramatically as population growth, increased food production and rapid industrialisation, as well as growing expectations of a better standard of living. In the future, the growth in food production seems to be on the rise, because there are huge quantities of water in agriculture. Only the production of 1 tonne of wheat requires about 1000 tonnes of water. Furthermore, when we know that urban communities and industries have a far greater purchasing power than the world's farmers in the fight for scarce water resources, we must realize that we are facing a problem – or perhaps we should say a challenge. Magnar Norderhaug at the Worldwatch Institute Nordics points out that countries with little agricultural water can increasingly be forced into food imports, especially cereals, and that developments in China in this respect require attention. Two independent studies suggest that, in the period up to 2025, China may need to import as much grain as is currently available on the world market. For countries with a good trade surplus, this is hardly a problem, but numerous countries with high import needs and low money can have problems – major problems. If rich countries lay down their agriculture because it is cheaper to import food, demand for food on the world market will increase. That's probably going to be the price too. But whoever benefits from this will largely depend on who has the rights to the earth and who can afford to buy imported food. Increased export opportunities combined with good trading conditions may increase the development potential of a country, but may also create further pressures on limited soil and water resources and conflict between a rich upper and middle class and the poor population. Not always have the matching interests. Market and market forces need not be wrong in themselves. Used correctly, they may be suitable tools. Economic growth can reduce poverty but can also create losers as a result of the adaptations that growth requires. If free trade is to prevent hunger and poverty, it requires austerity of purchasing power, not only between rich and poor countries, but also within countries. It is therefore important and positive for the Government to develop sustainable development, protection of the environment and consideration of developing countries among the overall objectives of the WTO work. Debt relief, quality assurance of assistance, the fight against corruption, the development of democracy and public institutions are other important elements for the success of global development. The fact that Norway has contributed to creating a new trend of indebtedness towards developing countries is very encouraging. Assistance is beneficial. Assistance becomes hopeful and creates new opportunities. Learning a man to fish is undoubtedly more long-term than giving him a fish. But if pollution has poisoned the fish or major boats have swept the sea empty of fish, he has little use of his fishing skills. To what extent we succeed in achieving the real objectives of aid, namely to make ourselves redundant, will at last depend on the rules applied in each country and in the international community.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e1072	Several have not asked for the floor, and the debate on cases No. One, two, three is over. [[See page 831 of this Official Journal.]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e1086	The responsibilities reform for people with mental retardation – the so-called HVPU reform – was launched on 1 January 1991 following a unanimous decision in Stortinget. In retrospect, there has been a continuous effort to implement the reform in line with the intentions. It is clear that such a major and comprehensive reform is not easy to implement and that some adjustments may sometimes be necessary. I find reason to claim that this work has gone well because at this turn of the year there are only 13 people left in the institution, and these 13 will, after all, have a different offer in a short time. There are still major challenges in creating more good leisure, school and work opportunities for people with mental retardation. There is also a great deal to be done in expanding alternative housing for adults, residents with mental retardation. During the entire reform period, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has closely followed developments in the municipalities, including: through an annual status report from the municipalities. The implementation of the responsibilities reform has been a particularly important challenge for the host municipalities of the former HVPU institutions. A comprehensive evaluation of the reform has been carried out in several of these municipalities. This has given important signals for the necessary adjustments and for the further implementation of the reform. Soon nine years after the responsibilities reform came into force, I think most people realize that this reform was right to implement for those to whom it really applies. We must be able to agree that it can't be right that some people should live their entire lives in an institution, without their own home and the freedom that everyone else takes as the greatest of course. I hope and believe that this debate is a closed phenomenon, and that we can now forever get rid of the HVPU concept and the very special thinking that has been associated with groups of people with mental retardation. Of course, it is important to look back on implementation and perhaps make certain changes and improvements. In this way it is Document No. The 8 we're now dealing with, in its place. However, it has always been planned to evaluate the reform, and this has been followed up by the Government in a good way. I would like to take the opportunity to commend the Council of State and her employees for that job. The draft budget includes 3.5 million. for this purpose, and the evaluation plan appears to be well thought-out. An overall committee is pleased that the evaluation work is under way and the Committee believes that these results will provide a good basis for further work. The Committee assumes that the evaluation report of the Norwegian Research Council is submitted to the Stortinget in a proper manner. I then refer to the proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e1114	The representative of Arnesen has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e1117	I would like to point out, at the outset, that an overall assessment of the HVPU reform, which started in 1991 and ended in 1995, has not been carried out. However, in recent years some researchers and organisations have expressed rather different views and experiences on the HVPU reform. The Norwegian Association for Psychiatric Developmentally Impaired Claims that the reform has led to a better quality of life for 70 pst. of those who were moved out, and that 20 pst. has it pretty much like they had it in the institution, while the whole ten pst. is expected to have a worsening life situation after the implementation of the reform. Psychologist Tor Jensen has taken his doctorate on the evaluation of the HVPU reform, and concluded in his doctorate that about 40 p.m. of the mentally retarded persons who had moved to their own homes after the reform have become less independent. Well half of them have had greater problems, and Jensen goes on to point out in her doctoral thesis that it is obvious that the reform was initially too poorly planned. The Norwegian Institute of Urban and Regional Research has evaluated the work of mentally retarded people in Oslo. The report showed that the objective of the so-called responsibilities reform, namely to improve the life situation of those with mental retardation, has not been achieved. True, many have improved living conditions and self-determination, but recreational activities and social networks are weakened in relation to housing. The same report also states that three out of four relatives in Oslo who have been asked about the consequences of the reform claim that after the reform has been implemented, they have not improved their quality of life. The party of progress was initially skeptical of the whole reform and thought that those who were able to do so and could profit from moving to their own home should be able to do so without shutting down all the institutional care. This scepticism of the Progress Party has not diminished in recent years when a variety of reports on poorer quality of life and difficult care for a large proportion of those with mental retardation moved out of the central institutions. The intention of the present Document No. The 8th proposal, on which the present position is based, was to have a comprehensive public evaluation of the reform, so that one could put on the table the unfortunate results of the reform for individuals and propose improvements. The Progress Party is aware that a few of the mentally retarded people have a difficult behaviour pattern in addition to multiple disabilities and are a heavy casual strain in several municipalities, which individually consume large resources for care and supervision. In the past, the Progress Party has called for municipalities, or cooperation between municipalities, to be able to achieve an established inter-municipal, smaller book collective with stable, professionally good staff – this in order to improve the quality of life of individuals within reasonable limits of resource consumption. During the examination of Document No: 8:62 information has been provided that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has already commissioned the Norwegian Research Council to evaluate the reform and that this work is now well under way. For this reason, the Progress Party did not wish to re-promote its Document No. 8 proposals, but will await the report of the Norwegian Research Council and possibly come back when the evaluation results are available, with proposals for what the report recommends to do in order to improve the quality of life not only for 60-70 pst. of the mentally disabled, but for all those with mental retardation, whether or not they have previously been admitted to an institution.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e1132	The left is not represented in the committee. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to link some comments to the vote. It is very positive that there is now a review of the experience of the HVPU reform. It was a significant boost, and everything suggests that the results of the reform are fundamentally positive. Fortunately, the resistance and scepticism against this reorientation in an important area has proved to be exaggerated, it has been shown that this force has not only been targeted but also produced results. I am familiar with the report that Mr Alvheim mentioned, which shows that 70 pst. has improved significantly, 20 pst. has it as before, and 10 pst. It's worse. It's possible that the big picture is something like this. It is expected of the things we will get answers to when the reform is now being evaluated. But behind these numbers is the individual. Stavanger Aftenblad recently had a report based on a client who had lived for several decades on Bakkebø in Egersund, and who mentioned it as the biggest day of his life when he was told that he could get his own home. This has been the case for the vast majority of those who have renewed the benefits of this reform. It's important to have experience with what's done. One must build on what works, and one must adjust in areas where conditions warrant it. In this context, it is a key point that, although many have received significantly better housing, recreational activities and the social network are not always similarly improved. For the left, it is quite clear that the answer to the adjustments to be made is not to go back to an institution model. I do not exclude that in a future offer it can also include elements of inter-municipal cooperation against individuals, but it is definitely not the main track. I think it's a very well-worked and good way to evaluate the reform that the department has put up and is doing, and I think it's important that this is also led to the Stortinget, so that we get the opportunity to debate the experience here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e1149	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 832]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e1163	In several contexts, one has gained the experience that caregivers wishing to move from one municipality to another have had problems moving as there is a lack of adequate care measures to enable them to function and stay in the municipality of relocation. As a result, persons in need of care do not have the same real access to move from one municipality to another, as persons without the need for organised care. The proposers in Document No. 8:69 for 1998-99, representatives Gunhild Øyang and Sylvia Brustad, take this into account in their proposal. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has also addressed this issue, and in a circular dated 8 November of this year to the municipalities of the country has clarified their responsibilities to the municipalities and how such communications on relocation and service provision are to be handled. In the circular of the Ministry, it is emphasised that according to the Municipal Health Services Act § 1-1, municipalities are to provide the necessary health care to all residents or temporary residents of the municipality. According to Section 2-1 of the Act, any right to necessary health care in the municipality in which he lives or is temporarily resident. The first paragraph of Section 10-1 of the Social Services Act requires social services to provide services according to the law to all residents of the municipality. The legislative text does not specifically address whether a municipality can refuse an application for services because the applicant does not live or reside in the municipality at the time of the application or at the time of the decision, when it is clear that he will be in need of care services at the time when the services are to be provided. It is stated in a circular that there has been no legislative opinion or wish to limit the possibility of moving for people with extensive care needs. In the preparatory work of the Social Services Act and the Local Health Service Act, it is expressly stated that there should be no possibility of referring an applicant to his municipality of residence or permanent residence. The individual’s right to reside wherever he or she wishes is a crucial element in determining the responsibilities of the municipality. This relationship, one might say this clear principle, is also an overall social committee that has decided during the discussion of this matter. As rapporteur of the case, I must say that I am pleased that we have now established a common and clear position on how such matters should be dealt with, by an overall committee agreeing with what is laid down in the department's circular, and that the intentions of Document No. 8:69 and the clarification in the circular shall be followed up and practiced. After this clarification, there should be no doubt as to whether the natural right of each person to move from one municipality to another and that it should also apply to them with the need for organised care services. An overall committee states that the cost of the care services referred to here is related to the responsibility for the provision of the services. And since this responsibility is linked to the municipality where the recipient wants to live, this should also be clarified. We hope that the intentions now established are followed up by the municipalities, and we have therefore asked that the Government orientate the Storting, in a legal way, how the practice is going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e1191	The Workers' Party at the representatives of Øyågen and Brustad has proposed that caring people moving to a municipality be guaranteed the same access to the hospital or nursing home as other residents of the municipality. Of course, the starting point for the draft document is that Norwegian citizens should be able to move freely where they want to within their borders. However, for people with a need for care, it has been found that in some cases the municipal boundaries have acted as effective barriers. Because of greater mobility, parents and children will increasingly live in different municipalities, with some large distances. Many older people find it desirable to move closer to their children and grandchildren. In recent years, there have been several cases where people in need of institutional services have not been able to move to the municipality of residence of their family because of rigid legislation and lack of cooperation between municipalities. In one case, it proved impossible for a 92-year-old man to move from the municipality of residence, where he no longer had family and acquaintances, to Oslo, where he had two of his three children and ten of his eleven grandchildren. Section 2-1 of the Municipal Health Service Act states: ‘Every person has the right to the necessary health care in the municipality in which he or she lives or is temporarily resident.’ The problem will arise when the person in need of care seeks to do so before he settles in the municipality. Many caregivers, however, cannot move until a new service offer is clear in the municipality they want to move to. It has been shown that the legislation is being practised differently in this area. In some cases, the municipality of removal and the municipality of relocation have come into an arrangement, while in other cases the municipalities have not agreed. There is therefore a need to clarify this legislation in order to allow municipalities to maintain a similar practice for nursing people who want to move to a new municipality. It is assumed that those who move are treated in the same way as other residents in the municipality of relocation. On the part of the Labour Party, we are pleased that the Minister of Social Affairs addressed this issue before the final consideration of the documents by the representatives of Brustad and Øyanggen. We expect the municipalities to follow up on a circular basis from the department, assuming that the government follows the situation and reports to the Stortinget how the intentions of the proposal are followed up. I think this is a proposal and a case that will delight many elderly, sick and relatives who have had to live at large geographical distances between themselves because the rules have been too strict. We all know how good it is to be able to visit their closest as often as possible, and have them in a geographical proximity that makes such contact possible. With the proposal and the consent of the Stortingen, this possibility will now be open.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e1215	I am grateful that this proposal has been promoted by the representatives of Eyeågen and Brustad. For a long time, there has been – and remains – a problem that is very worrying about being able to move to a municipality where the whole family may be living, due to lack of hospital or other care. It is therefore high time to address this problem, as is now done in the present document No. The 8th proposal. Today's practice is often such that you have to obtain prior commitments about a hospital, nursing home or other care before moving to a new municipality. With the shortage of sick homes in many municipalities today, the waiting time for the move can take months and often years, and this at least does not find the Progress Party satisfactory. It is commendable that, in November of this year, the Minister of Social Affairs has attributed the municipalities and asked them to pay attention to both the Municipal Health Service Act and the Social Health Service Act, and that those who have been taken care of should be consistent with the rest of the municipalities. However, I am afraid that a circular is not good enough and will not change the practice in particular in municipalities that are already under heavy pressure on their care for the elderly. It may be unfair for healthy Norwegian citizens to now be free to choose which hospitals they will be treated in, while caregivers have not been given the same freedom. It is precisely this point that the present proposal and the present setting will now be corrected in a certain monn, but I am unfortunately still afraid that it may take some time for a strong care-seeking person to move freely from the municipality to the municipality. However, I hope that the present attitude, in addition to the plan of old age that is being implemented, can alleviate the problem with regard to the provision of hospital facilities or nursing homes, and that, if not too long, relocating for caregiving can happen. I think everything should now be done and arranged so that older sick people can have the opportunity to spend their night of life in the same municipality as, and near, their closest relatives. Older sick people have a particularly strong need for social interaction with their neighbors. It can make life easier and improve the quality of life in a care and care situation that can otherwise be very difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e1230	Initially, I would like to pay tribute to the representatives Eyeågen and Brustad for addressing this question. Of course, everyone living in the country must be able to move where they want to within the country’s borders. But for people who need care and care, it's not without problems, as many people have been and as we've seen lately. For many, and especially for older people with a need for municipal services, such as: health place, it has not been easy to move to another municipality. Both unclear legislation and lack of cooperation between municipalities have made this difficult. Persons with a great need for care and care do not have the opportunity to move if the municipality they want to move to cannot give them a satisfactory offer. If they are to have such an opportunity, it must be a prerequisite that the municipality to which they are to move is to deal with the application for a hospital, nursing home or home-based service – and that decisions on the service are taken – before the transfer takes place. If not, they may run the risk of standing without the necessary care. It should be a matter of course that caring and caring, regardless of age, have the same rights as others to move to another municipality if they want to. Some people may want to move closer to their family, but there may also be other reasons, as it is for functional health. The main point is that they must have the same right to move to a new municipality, and be equal to other residents in terms of the provision of care services. Section 2-1 of the Local Health Service Act states that everyone has the right to the necessary health care in the municipality in which he lives or temporarily resides. The right, like the other parties, is pleased with the necessary clarification from the Ministry in a circular dated 8 November 1999 on the responsibilities of municipalities for examining applications and decisions on services under the Social Services Act and/or the Local Health Service Act. This applies to applicants with extensive care needs who have moved to the municipality. This clarification will hopefully help to ensure the rights that caregivers actually have to a good careservice even when moving to another municipality. The size has just adopted a new patient rights law, with free hospital choice for Norwegian citizens at the same treatment level. The right believes that the same choice of care and care must also be maintained in all municipalities, and we believe that a right to free home choice must be introduced. If an offer of a decent and good care and care service is to be made to all those who need it, wherever they live or want to live, it is important that the effort made by the elderly care agency Stortinget is followed up. The development of municipalities needs to be closely monitored. There have been signs that many municipalities are building residential housing at the expense of institutions, while there is a great shortage of nursing homes for the elderly. The community's commitment to nursing homes must not prevent the most nurturing elderly from being offered sick housing. However, nursing homes can also free institutional places for the elderly who need room in nursing homes. We know that the lack of skilled labour is a bottleneck in the development of care for the elderly. The situation is very worrying. It might have been a bit too mild: it's actually a crisis in many municipalities. For this reason, it is important to use all instruments to provide sufficient labour for the health and social sector, including the private provision of labour. The right now has hopes that it will be possible, despite the government's refusal. We also know that 10,000 nurses work in other professions. The possibility of a more flexible relationship with the labour market can help to bring more people back to care. Of course, renting out labour can not only solve the recruitment problems, but it is an important contribution. There is a need for offensive measures focusing on education, working conditions and wages. It is essential that municipalities now focus on several measures at the same time, so that the difficult personnel situation can be resolved and those in need of care receive the services they require. In conclusion, I would like to point out that all policies must be based on respect for individual and individual integrity. We need to provide individual solutions that meet individual needs. There are too many examples — especially in the care of the elderly — of people being disqualified and deprived of their freedom of action. For the Right, the natural response to these challenges is to develop a more varied and flexible provision of services with freedom of choice as a key concept. The offer shall be determined not only on the basis of the opinion of the public or individual local authorities, but on the basis of the value of the individual caregiver. Finally, I would like to refer to the committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e1267	Document No The 8 proposal and the response from the Ministry clarify in many ways the question of the right of any citizen to move between different municipalities. It would be lacking if you did not have that right, even if you needed care. However, I believe that this clarification has not gone as far as it should. When, for example: The letter from the Ministry states that under these rules, ‘the costs of the services shall be borne by the municipality responsible for providing the services’, with reference to both the Local Health Act and the Social Services Act and the other legislation, the question remains: Who is responsible? Here it will be a grey zone: when someone wants to move from one municipality to another, it may be unclear in the worst case when moving has taken place. As far as I have understood, one of the issues that led to this document was No. The 8-proposal, a case between the municipality of Alta and the municipality of Oslo. So there were no problems with nursing homes in Oslo, which meant that the householder in Alta could not move, but it was economic confusion. Because there was a free hospital in Oslo. The question was whether the municipality of Oslo was responsible for covering the costs after the transfer, or whether the municipality of Alta would pay further for the hospital. That didn't want Alta municipality to do. They still do not want that, despite the fact that the resident has now moved to Oslo, and the municipality of Alta has received a bill for the further stay in Oslo – as far as I have got it. I want to be quite specific in my question to the social minister: is it so to understand that when this resident has moved from Alta to Oslo, it is Oslo who is actually going to cover the costs because the resident now lives in Oslo and not in Alta? If you can't give a clear answer to that, this case is in no way solved. SV has been alone in its considerations about that one should have gone further in clarifying here. It should have been said that it is the municipality that the person in question defines as his municipality of origin, which must have the financial responsibility. This means that if someone wants to move from a to b, and can't move to b because there's no space available at the time, the other municipality – b – will assume that responsibility when you define that it's where you want to live, or you've moved there. There must be procedures for preparing for the move, but these conditions have not been clarified today. It is made visible through the correspondence that continues to take place between Alta and Oslo, despite the fact that the department has sent out its letter. I hope that the Minister of Social Affairs can be very precise and clarifying in relation to where the financial responsibility is now, because if she cannot be, this matter has not been resolved through the processes we have carried out so far.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e1282	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e1285	Considering that this is a matter where there is agreement between the parties, it should certainly be unnecessary to take a line, but when the last main speaker in a specific case presents Oslo in a bad light, I think there is reason to react. Because there is agreement on the objectives. With regard to this specific case with the blind, elderly lady who wanted to move to Oslo, it is actually the case that Oslo municipality is out of turn – because it is not right that the municipality of Oslo has many vacant sick homes, we have about. 400 who are in line – because this was a particularly difficult case, where one saw that this woman, who was old age, could not move without getting a sick home place, so Oslo came out of her way and gave her a sick home place with priority in the queue in front of the municipality’s own inhabitants. So to present it as if the Municipality of Oslo has been difficult, I find it inappropriate and at least not correct. It was also the municipality of Oslo that helped him to ensure that the move was notified, so that the municipality of Oslo, of course, assumes the financial responsibility that is a natural consequence of the move.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e1292	Of course, it was never my intention to put Oslo in a bad light. It was my intention to put Oslo in a true light, based on how the matter has evolved so far. If what Annelise Höegh here says is right, and you can get a clarification, you've gotten a little bit further. But I used this case as an example. I am concerned with the purely principleal aspects, and I hope, as I said, that the Minister of Social Affairs can clarify them. So to the vacant nursing homes in Oslo, since Annelise Høegh came up with it: it wasn't long ago that a report was on TV – I don't remember if it was in the Dagsrevy or on TV 2 – that was that the choices you've got between different nursing homes in Oslo made it clear that there are sick places available because you don't choose them, while there is a great search for other places. It is also a major problem associated with hospitals. It is not possible to print out patients to the vacancies because dependants choose other hospitals. So that means that, based on that report, it's per. date is sick home places in Oslo which are unused.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e1299	I'm not going to go further with the representative of Ballo's fear of being able to make a choice. But I have a problem that I would like the representative, Ballo, to clarify. According to what is stated in the comment from the Socialist Left Party, as I read it, movers to a municipality will take precedence over the municipality's own residents in the queue for sick home or other care services, for such a comment is from SV, in the situation that if a person wants to move to another municipality, the municipality of moving will automatically have to start paying for him. And we all know that when the individual municipality is charged a bill for such a case, the municipality will give this person precedence over the municipality's own inhabitants for the sake of its own finances. There is nothing to say that the municipality is obliged to provide that offer or is penalised financially if it does not. That's what's in the comments of the Socialist Left Party. I would like to ask the representative, Mr Ballo, to clarify this. Does Ballo believe that it is correct that transferees to a municipality should take precedence over the municipality's own inhabitants?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e1307	I thank Harald T. Nesvik for the question and his search for answers. That should of course be possible to clarify. What I have experienced, even when I worked as a doctor in Alta, is that because there is no financial incentive for other municipalities to receive residents, even their own inhabitants at the time, those who wanted to move, or those who the relatives wanted to move to other municipalities, were not given priority. It meant that it could actually go on for years. What I am concerned about here is precisely the freedom of choice that the Progress Party itself underlined instead, and that is to allow for movement to take place. This does not mean that you should take precedence, but that means that if the municipality you want to move to at that time does not have an offer, you must at least assume the obligations pending the move. What is otherwise at risk is that there is actually an offer – Oslo is an example of where there are available sick homes – but by not moving, you ensure that you do not have to cover those costs. The majority here are unable to prevent them unless they address the type of considerations that SV has until now been able to deal with alone.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e1316	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e1319	Some people depend on receiving comprehensive care services, so that they cannot move without a service offer being clear in the municipality they want to move to. For these persons to be allowed to move, there is a requirement that the municipality of moving to the municipality manages applications and takes decisions on services before they actually move or stop in the municipality. It has been shown in several cases that caregivers who have wanted to move closer to relatives have not been able to get the application processed in the municipality they want to move to. These matters are now resolved in different ways by the municipalities. In some cases, one has handled such applications in advance, said yes or no, and prohibited services in the case of yes. In some cases, the municipalities have agreed to reimbursement between themselves, and some have been rejected because they had not stopped in the municipality when the application was sent. My work begins with a thing like a crazy move from Oslo to Sandnes. On the basis of these issues, I promised on question 20 May last year that I would take a closer look at the law as it is, and the way in which the ministry could ensure a practice which would allow people who depend on care services to also be able to busie themselves in another municipality. The follow-up to the ageing plan will in itself ensure a more similar level of elderly care across the country and should provide a better starting point for municipalities between themselves to be liberal in relation to moving. However, I have found it necessary and most appropriate to make a clarification in a circular to the municipalities, as has now been done. The newsletter has been sent. We thus ensure a proper clarification that caregiving on equal lines with others has the right to brush where they want to. I hope to give you a more similar management and make the situation easier for both caring and overreacting people. The Ministry will closely follow developments in the future to see how the follow-up of the circular is practised. In order to examine whether the practice complies with the intention of Document No. 8:69 for 1998-99, to which the Stortinget now subscribes, and the clarification in the circular, I will ask the county councillors and county councillors next year to report specifically on the developments in the municipalities in this area. I will then give a response to Stortinget, as requested. Then I have received a question from the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo, who has been answered to everything by Annelise Höegh. But let me just end up with the line below: what's the intention of this circular, is just to allow a shift to be planned and implemented, even for those who need care services. I have once praised the municipality of Oslo because they cut through a matter that looked difficult at first. So for those who move out, the same legislation that is currently in force in social services law and in municipal health services law will apply. It is the municipality to which each individual moves, which takes the costs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e1334	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e1337	It was reassuring to hear that the control and follow-up of this circular has already been envisaged by the Government, bringing in state doctors and statesmen. I must say that I am still somewhat skeptical as to whether this circular will be sufficient without a follow-up with some sort of reaction. After all, it was developed very well and comprehensive care regulations for our nursing homes, but the municipalities have in no way followed up these regulations that they were supposed to. My specific question to the social minister is this: if a caring person is now seeking a transfer to a municipality, it is obvious that the municipality must be responsible for both care and expenses. But if an application was to be sent in advance and rejected, is it allowed for a municipality to reject such an application?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e1344	The situation then is that one who lives in a municipality and needs either the necessary health care under the Local Health Services Act or the need for care under the Social Services Act, even in some cases may have a different meaning to that which eventually becomes the solution from the municipality in an emergency situation. The same would be the case for a person who moves from one municipality to another. But the point is: the same conditions and the same right to necessary health care, necessary care and care – a solution based on what can be in the municipality, and in both cases with emphasis on the user I myself. Let me take an example. It can be thought that the option for a person who moves from one municipality — and who lives in his own home but needs extensive care — can become an institution space in another municipality and vice versa. But the point is that one should have the same equivalent offer and the same need to get its application processed and evaluated.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e1351	One of the major problems arising from this case, or one of the biggest bottlenecks, is the large shortage of hospital facilities and the type of offer in Norway. We have very long queues in a number of municipalities to get hospitalized. And then my question is to the Council of State: does the Council of State not agree that if this system is to function satisfactorily, we also have to make sure that the queues in order to have a sick home place in the municipalities of the country disappear, so that you have a real opportunity to move, that you have a real chance of getting a sick home place? This is not the case in a number of municipalities today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e1358	There is no doubt that the situation today can be experienced differently from the municipality to the municipality. There is also no doubt that today there are people who want a sick home place, and who do not have the opportunity to get it. This is why the Storting Consolent has adopted an action plan aimed at ensuring better care for the elderly, including those who feel that the situation is improving, month after month, as the development takes place and more options are put in place. I would like to show that the Stortinget will be able to have further debate on this in the context of the two-year review of the Action Plan, where the status shows that we are so far on track, and where we will see more closely the relationship between hospitals and care homes, the number of yearwork and many other themes. But it is quite clear, as the representative Nesvik here asks questions, that if all older people in this country who are asking for care and care should also have the opportunity to move, there must be a well-developed supply throughout the country. I now assume that most older people — as far as possible — want to stay in their own community, but at the same time there should be no difference between young people and older people when it is necessary to move.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e1365	Some people may get the impression that this debate is being extended unnecessarily, but I think that the discussion itself and the preparation here are important for quite a number of municipalities, because it turns out that there is a lack of clarity about how this should be done. I can see clearly from the Council of State that the moment the move took place, the municipality to which he is moving takes over the financial responsibility. It's indisputable. But in exactly the same way that the committee leader, Alvheim, is skeptical about whether this seems to be completely clarifying, I'm the same thing. For one can imagine a situation where an application is sent from one municipality to another, where the other municipality reasons a refusal that there is a lack of capacity, and therefore you cannot now make any offer, but there will in reality be financial reasons because you see that you get a cost you did not have before. In this way, even if you say that the application is being processed and that it is waiting time, it may be one, two and three years before you receive an offer. [[Ballo]] And of course, it's totally unsatisfactory both for the person in question and for the family. I would like to ask the Council of State: does the Council of State consider some procedures, appeals, sanctions, related to the municipality if this becomes the situation in individual cases – and I do not regard the flexibility that needs to be demonstrated in a transitional phase of perhaps up to a few months, more so where the matter simply does not find its solution?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e1376	I want to understand that there may be skepticism as to whether this circular solves all the problems and all the situations of each elderly person for whom this is relevant. We have – as I have done well – carefully weighed out. It also shows that we've spent some time looking at how we can participate here. I think we have now found a useful escape for those who are considering moving, and for those who are going to accept and evaluate such an application. But I want to follow developments very closely, so I'm going to contact both the county and county authorities to ensure that this is an equivalent practice. On this point, with respect to appeals: in relation to individual decisions, a person will have the same opportunity to appeal as today — according to the municipal health service law of the county doctor and under the social services law of the county.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e1385	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e1389	As rapporteur, I would like to comment on some of the things that have emerged here. Firstly, it is quite clear that the reason for many of these movements is that there are older people who want to move to close relatives and families. In this sense, it is not unreasonable for this to be discussed first and foremost with care for the elderly and capacity in this area. We do not improve the capacity of this proposal, but we improve the individual's right to move. It sounds like we're also going to solve capacity problems, and we might make it anything but predictable for those who are planning to take care of the elderly for the future by clarifying that the right to move is so strong and clear. But I think that, among other things, in the framework of the action plan for the care of the elderly, it is necessary to address this and to address the problems of capacity and to address the opportunities for rapid and minimised treatment. In addition, an overall committee has now clarified some of the practices in dealing with such cases. We have also pointed out that it is not satisfactory for the administrative law to be broken in very many cases when it comes to dealing with matters relating to the provision of care and health care. It's one of the things that needs to be inculcated. So there has been so much talk about care for the elderly, nursing homes and nursing homes that I want to make it clear that this applies to everyone who needs organized care and care services, regardless of age – which was also in the Council of State – so that we do not forget that. I also think it is very good to hear now that the Minister of Social Affairs has intended to involve both statesmen and statesmen around the country to ensure that this is practiced in such a way that the intentions are fulfilled. This last thing I had to do with the provisions of the Administration Act on rapid feedback, too, should be part of the clarification on how to practice these matters. Then I have to say that some have been targeted and pulled up a practical world here that makes it kind of a ‘worst case’ that still gets away. Fortunately, the representative Ballo now said in his last line that there must be room for flexibility, and I really hope so. Provided that the provisions of the Administrative Act are complied with, it must be possible for the municipality which is to be designated as a moving municipality to have time to organise and assess the need for care and to have a care and service provision ready when moving in, and it must necessarily take a few weeks. But it must be within reasonable limits and within a flexible and decent practice. I think the stress on the economy is important, but that it is reasonably clear through the matter today. The municipality to which he moves shall charge the costs. Service responsibilities are clear through the law to which they are referred, both in the Municipal Health Service Act and in the Social Services Act, and it is clearly established that responsibilities and cost responsibilities are linked. And then I think there is a fairly clear answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e1402	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 832]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e1418	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 832]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e1431	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e1453	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e1470	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e1507	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Harald T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 16 November 1999: ‘The government is asked to promote a comprehensive proposal for the assessment of cohabitants and consensual definitions, so as to avoid different consensual definitions in different areas of Norwegian law and to have unintended consequences.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-02.ana.ud1324e1526	There is no record.
