ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e29	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e34	I propose Aud Blattmann and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e39	Aud Blattmann and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt are proposed as chairmen. – Other proposals are not available, and Aud Blattmann and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt are unanimously elected as chairman of the current meeting. The representative of Terje Knudsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e44	On behalf of the representatives of Jørn L. Stang, Vidar Kleppe, Harald T. Nesvik and myself, proposals are being made to replace Norwegian citizens who were imprisoned in Japanese during the Second World War.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e49	The proposal put forward will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e70	On Monday, the Stortinget received notice from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik and the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Gudmund Restad State Council Eldbjørg Løwer The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask themselves the main questions. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative of Thorbjørn Jagland.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e86	Norway has once again experienced a serious accident at sea. We are pleased with the compassion and kindness shown by the Prime Minister on behalf of all of us. When such a dramatic and tragic accident occurs, it reminds us that we must put safety at sea on the agenda again and again. It was therefore important that the Workers' Party and the Centre's parties in the autumn budget negotiations agreed on an additional allocation to lighthouses and fairways, since the budget submitted did not even include a price adjustment. But the aftermath is great, and there is a need for follow-up. I want to ask the Prime Minister what the Government will do. It is equally important to clarify what happened to the boat. This is a type of boat that is used a lot along the coast. It is therefore important to have the boat lifted, so that you can find out as much as possible about what happened, and about the characteristics of the boat. What does the government want to do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e95	Yes, unfortunately we have again experienced a tragic accident at sea, which we have had several of the earlier, also in modern history. From the government's side we saw it so that first one had to concentrate on doing the rescue work as efficiently as possible, even the further search work after still missing. So – and it is likely to happen this week – a commission of inquiry will be set up to go through all the circumstances and find out what might be the cause of this accident, as far as it is possible to bring these matters to the fore. Because of the unclean waters we have along our coast, it's right that we need a lot of labelling, both in the form of lighthouses and other lights. Today, we have over 4,000 light bulbs and over 15,000 other brands, but there is still a need, for example. in the waters where this accident occurred. This will continue the work of the Government on a systematic review, monitoring and follow-up of appropriations. It is true, as I was saying, that the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Government's parties included some increase in the appropriations for this purpose for the year 2000. As far as the boat is concerned, no decision has been taken on that question yet. What's going to happen, maybe a lifting of it, I think it's right that one has some more time to consider, but the government is set to do everything that is practicable to bring all the circumstances around the accident to the clean.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e106	I am pleased with what the Prime Minister now says, that you will continue the monitoring and follow-up with appropriations. It is also in line with what a unanimous committee formulated a year ago on the basis of what the department had written in the budget, warning of the maturity of lighthouses and lanterns and also the coastal marking system. Can I then understand it so that the Government will follow up the additional appropriations that came in the autumn, in the revised budget for spring? I am also pleased that the Prime Minister now says that the issue of the cancellation of the boat is being assessed. I think it is important to clarify why the boat did not hold.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e113	It's natural that one also gets an increased pace of marking, that is, both fireworks and other forms of marking on the parts of the coast where that remains, and I think it's natural that we can come back to that question in the revised national budget and in an even longer-term plan at another time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e118	There will be follow-up questions – Grete Knudsen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e121	It is reassuring that the Government will ensure that all aspects of the tragic accident are mapped, both for the sake of the dead and because we are a society very dependent on the sea. Catamarans and speedboats are now being designed – not least here in Norway, we have driven this technology – and are moving both in Norway and in other countries. We see that this type of thing has only session. From this point of view, it will be essential that the hull be lifted, because then we will also know why a boat that was thought not to sink has done so, and at the same time you will be able to know why the lifeboats were not triggered when the accident happened.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e128	I notice what the representative Grete Knudsen here says. However, I think it is right to await the opinions and reports of the commission of inquiry that are now to be set up, and that we must, of course, be careful to draw conclusions before we get the report on the table. But the question that has now been raised by Jagland and Grete Knudsen will, of course, be important in the further assessment and follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e134	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e137	I also have a question for the Prime Minister. It is true that accidents often shed light on other aspects of society, including: the preparedness and ability of the Norwegian health services, in particular hospitals, to provide the necessary service. In today’s newspaper, there is an article referring to an article in something called Hospital Aktuell in Germany. It is a journal of the German Hospital Association DKG, which consists of 2,269 German hospitals. This shows that Norway is used as a scare example of poor hospital services and offers to the population. Does the Prime Minister think it's time for a power cap, for example? by adding the necessary amounts to the 1999 budget so that we get top modern equipment at our hospitals, as it does not affect the domestic economy, other than improving hospital provision?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e146	First of all, I have not had the opportunity to assess the level of these statements in a German medium. Much remains to be done in the case of Norwegian health care and Norwegian hospital operations. Much needs to be improved. However, one has to point out that recent take-offs have been made and that significant escalation plans to improve the situation are being implemented. This applies, as is known especially for psychiatry, cancer care and thirdly, with relevance to what Carl I. Hagen asked about, equipment acquisition to Norwegian hospitals. The three plans for escalation are one of the strongest promises we have ever had in the Norwegian health system. With regard to the operation of our hospitals, where we have also recently found shortcomings, the Minister of Health, in cooperation with the Municipal Councils, has taken the initiative to review the economy of hospitals. The size shall be submitted to it in the context of the revised national budget and the municipal economic proposal for spring. It was in that context, as I know, that a meeting was held yesterday with the Municipalities' Central Association. There shall be a meeting with all the counties today, and there shall also be a meeting with the counties that own regional hospitals in a week. Hospitals have been growing in activity since the introduction of the intervention finance mechanism in 1997. The number of patients admitted has been increased by 5 pst. from 1996 to 1998. The 1999 forecasts indicate that growth will continue. The breaches of the waiting list guarantee have declined significantly during the same period. With regard to 1999, I can point out that the Government has already proposed to the Storting an increase in the agreed appropriations for hospitals of a total of 433 million. I expect that the Storting will assess the 1999 situation in relation to that proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e157	Retorically, the Prime Minister is in many respects good at pointing out that Norway is one of the richest countries in the world, probably the richest country in Europe. We now have approx. 275 000 in hospital queues, we have 12,000 breaches of the waiting list guarantee, which is really no guarantee, and at the same time the Norwegian people read about significant billions of extraordinary income. It has been clear for a long time – not all the meetings of the Prime Minister are talking about – that we have a great deal of capacity in Norwegian hospitals. We have a lag of over 2 billion kroner in modern equipment that would improve the capacity, efficiency and diagnostic safety of patients. Can the Prime Minister tell the Norwegian people why not some of these extra incomes can be used to purchase equipment abroad, so that all Norwegian hospitals get top modern equipment of sufficient quality and quantity, when it does not affect the domestic economy? [[President clubs]] Why cannot any of the extraordinary revenues be used for exceptional equipment purchases for hospitals? [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e162	The President requests that the speaking time be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e165	In the case of equipment in particular, the Stortinget has joined a strong escalation plan for the acquisition of equipment for Norwegian hospitals — no matter how much Carl I. Hagen shakes his head, it is a fact that the Stortinget has done. This is one of the largest inputs in the Norwegian health system in a long time. It will follow up the Government. The size has also followed up through the various budgets adopted since this plan was introduced. Now the representative Hagen says that the meetings to which the Prime Minister refers are not necessary. Well, I think it can be very useful to have a direct contact that way, both with those who drive hospitals to daily, and with the owners. This is a question of both economics and organisation. One should, among other things: also discuss the report that SINTEF just presented, which showed that unfortunately the number of treatments in our hospitals has not increased in the same way as the appropriations have done. It may also indicate that there may be organisational grips to further reduce the queues we unfortunately still have at our hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e172	There will be follow-up questions – John I. Alvheim.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e175	In fact, the changes to the regulatory framework for input-based funding for the year 2000 mean a long way back to Framework Funding. The changes in unit price cut legislation will, of course, save the state money, but will go beyond patient treatment. Personally, I'm very concerned that if you don't do anything extraordinary now, we're moving towards a health crisis in 2000, which none of us want. My question to the Prime Minister is: After changing the legislation to save the state for expenditure – it must cost to reduce the queues – is the reason for this change that the Government will not spend more money on health in our own country?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e182	The answer to that question is, of course, no. The government will use, have used and will spend more money on health care in our country. The input-driven funding has also increased by approx. DKr 1.8 billion. I expect that there will be further increase in the future, because this system is quite successful. And we're happy about that. It helps to reduce the queues. This means that one should not underestimate the seriousness of the matter. We have big problems, and we still have cows. But I don't think one, when one points it out, should fail to get the facts out, namely that we have never treated so many patients as today, that the input-driven funding helps the queues get shorter, that they are still too long and that we should therefore continue to escalate. And the very design of the ISF scheme is of the themes that you should be in continuous contact with the hospitals about. The aim is not to reduce health care efforts, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e189	Gunhild Eyering – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e192	The budget agreement has somewhat improved the situation for hospitals, but it has come to light that regional hospitals believe they lack half a billion dollars for the next year. This is a rather serious situation, as Stortinget was suggested an activity increase of about 2 pst. Now I am pleased to hear that the Minister of Health, after pressure, will meet with the KS and with the county councils, because there is a great deal of disagreement about pricing the services. Will the Government now ensure that prior to the budgets contacts are made so that a united understanding of the pricing of services and thus the Stortinge will not deal with unclear questions about such an important sector in our society as patient treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e200	The government attaches great importance to having contact with both hospital management and owners. That has been the case in the past. It does not eliminate any disagreement about the understanding of this system and about the need for money, but I agree with the representative Eyeågen that it is an advantage of the greater clarity that you can come to in the figure material that Stortinget is based on. The Government will not let go of the matter as regards the year 2000, as a result of the budgetary agreement entered into with the Workers' Party. As I have explained in my answer to Carl I. Hagen, the government is in an active dialogue with the hospitals' management and owners – and not least with the regional hospitals, which are now particularly focused – to get a review and to seek an agreement on the data. We will return to the Stortinget in the revised national budget and in the municipal economic proposition with a possible follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e207	Sonja Irene Sjøli – the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e210	I have a question for the Prime Minister about the economy of regional hospitals. It is the regional hospitals that treat the most complex diseases and that have the most expensive treatments. They get the same treatment as the other hospitals, but they don't get their real costs covered by this effort-driven funding. Of course, it's a problem, and we've seen that in the last few days, when the regional hospitals are operating with a huge deficit in their budgets. The right now has a budget proposal to go in and look at this with differentiated prices, so that the most expensive operations or treatments get a different price than the simpler ones. I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he would like to look at this proposal from the Right to differentiate unit prices.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e219	I expect the Minister of Health, and, of course, the Government, in the dialogue we now have with the regional hospitals and owners, to also consider such a question as the representative Sjøli points to. We are pleased with any constructive input that has to come to improve the situation, and we have to take note of it in the light of the review to be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e224	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e227	My question also goes to the Prime Minister. These are the negotiations that have now begun in Seattle on a freer world trade. Here, there is a good deal to pick up for Norway, not least when it comes to triggering even more of the potential in Coastal Norway. This concerns both our traditional fisheries and our farming industries. There's a lot to pick up from a freer world trade in that area. Now, however, Norway has placed itself in a very reserved group with regard to one of the most central issues, namely agricultural negotiations – a group even called the ‘four-band’, which presented a proposal for a mandate to start negotiations without a fixed basis for negotiations before the start of the negotiations. My question to the Prime Minister is, is it really wise to sit in such a very special group on the outskirts of the negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e236	Before I go into the more material content of the WTO and agriculture, I will clearly reserve myself against the production and the language used by the Right Leader here. That Norway should belong to a kind of ‘four-band’, and that the other countries in that group would also accept such a name, I would quite clearly like to distance myself from it. This is partly a large and very serious country, which also sees seriously the position of agriculture both in its own country and in the world as a whole. I would also like to make a clear reservation against the production that someone has tried to give, that it was the position of these countries in Geneva that meant that one did not come any longer before a meeting in Seattle than is the case. It has, among other things, our Minister for Foreign Affairs has clearly refused. With regard to the WTO and agriculture, there is no need to hide that it is a problematic area. Norway has some offensive interests in the WTO round in Seattle, for example. in the fisheries sector and that is important. As a coastal nation, we have to take care of them. We also have defensive interests to care for, for example. in the case of agriculture. So if we're concerned that we're going to maintain a significant food production here in Norway, and have a food preparation, we can't ignore these more defensive interests either. And it's in the balance between them that the Government has laid down its strategy. It has explained quite in detail to the Minister of Foreign Affairs here in Stortinget for just a few days back, and as far as I could record, it was broad agreement in Stortinget from all – at least from most parties – to that strategy. What we are now going to Seattle is based on Stortinget's treatment of the Secretary of State's statement. Norway understands that there may be reductions in support and protection also in the agricultural sector, but is concerned that we have sufficient security mechanisms to achieve key Norwegian agricultural policy objectives, which are also widely agreed in the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e247	Unfortunately, the Prime Minister's initial remarks do not hold, because I have not found the term 'four-band'. That's how it's made in the press. And it is a problem when that name is put on the group in which Norway has joined. Then you have sat in a position that you will later have a problem dealing with. I think the Prime Minister should worry a lot more about the fact that the press has used that type of designation. I'm just passing this on to the Prime Minister. The second is, which I shall not make a point of, but I would remind you that it was not least the Secretary-General of the WTO who responded to the draft mandate that came. I understand that the foreign minister said what he said, but Norway still has a problem in that area. Today’s Business Today, the UN Secretary-General says that ‘trade is better than assistance’ in an article that builds up the desire to have successful negotiations. Does the Prime Minister agree with the UN Secretary-General in his statement?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e256	Firstly, Norway has quite similar interests and fundamental views with countries such as Japan, Korea, Switzerland and Iceland and with the EU-wide collection of countries, in terms of the role of agriculture, including in WTO negotiations. That the press uses a lot of terms, it gets to be. I think it's getting a little different shape when it's brought up in the Storting's pulpit. In my view, both trade and assistance are important. One should not be set up against the other. It is clear that, in the long term, it is vital for developing countries to have a stronger access to the rich country markets. In fact, Norway has placed great emphasis on the negotiating mandate with which our delegation travels to Seattle. The Minister of Foreign Affairs gave a very detailed account of this in Stortinget. I realized that this was the broad connection in Stortinget. It should not be used as an argument that we should not also have assistance at a high level. It is also necessary to remedy the situation in many developing countries.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e263	There will be follow-up questions – Siri Frost Sterri.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e266	For Norway, credibility in WTO negotiations is very important. We have an open economy, and we deserve the success of WTO negotiations in a number of areas. In particular, this fish, as also mentioned by the Prime Minister. I would like to remind you that in 1998 we exported DKK 28 billion in that sector. Therefore, Norway needs increased market access for fishery products and it is necessary to reduce and regulate the use of anti-dumping measures. At the same time, we see that Norway's attempt to win out with internal support measures for agriculture is not successful. We have previously questioned this strategy from the Right by the Government. I think the Prime Minister is very unclear. Let me therefore ask you quite specifically: is the Government prepared to make concessions on agriculture, for example. achieving better market access for fish?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e274	I think that, at the start of the WTO negotiations in Seattle, I am going to be a little cautious – perhaps others too – in drawing conclusions as to what will happen in perhaps two, three or four years of some very complicated negotiations we are facing. Secondly, I also want to warn you that one sets one primary industry up against the other. Fishing is very important, and it is also a very important export industry for Norway. But, of course, agriculture is also important, both in terms of food preparedness and in terms of rural policy. As I said, the Minister for Foreign Affairs explained just too few days back quite detailed in the Stortingen on how to seek a balanced solution that takes care of these for some cross-cutting reasons. It was the broad connection to the Stortinget, and I see no reason to rock by what the Stortinget in that way gave its support to. To start the negotiations by saying that one should admit something now and there in order to achieve something on another point, I don't think the time is right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e281	Dag Danielsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e284	I appreciate the fact that the Prime Minister takes cross-cutting considerations and in this way occupies a centre position – it's a center government. But here, I guess the location is a little unlucky. Here you come along with the countries that run the most extremely on agricultural interests. What has happened internationally in recent years is that developing countries stress the importance of market access and trade for them, particularly agricultural products. We have a concrete example: trade in meat from, among other things, Botswana and Namibia, meat which has such a standard that food safety has been clarified, etc., where the Government is trying to introduce an auctioning principle, which in reality means that very much of this meat will be excluded from the market because it becomes an additional fee. My specific question is whether the Government will abandon the auctioning position, which prevents meat from Botswana and Namibia from entering the market.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e293	As regards developing countries’ interest in the export of agricultural products, inter alia: to Norway, to the extent that Norway already has relatively favourable arrangements through the GSP scheme and the import access we have especially for least developed countries, the so-called MUL scheme. As the Minister of Foreign Affairs stated in the Stortinget, the Government is prepared to go further in relation to such arrangements, including internationally binding arrangements, combined with sufficient security mechanisms to create an imbalance in the Norwegian market. This I also understood that from those who commented on it in Stortinget last week, there was a relatively broad connection. We insist that we will pursue a non-national policy, including in the field of international trade. As far as the auctioning principle is concerned, we have recorded that comments from the Storting Committee have requested that this arrangement not enter into force from the New Year, as originally provided. Of course, it takes note of the Government, and then we will come back to a closer review of the auction principle.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e304	Harald T. Nesvik - Last Follow-up Question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e307	Norwegian fishing industry is the second most important export industry for Norway if we ignore oil and gas. Large funds are being invested to find alternative ways to increase market share – we have, among other things, the rearing of shellfish and cod, and you also want to go on with what's going on with salmon. Will the Prime Minister guarantee that the WTO negotiations on the part of Norway will be organised in such a way that the fishing industry is not affected by the ability and willingness of the Norwegian State to protect Norwegian agriculture to the extent that it has been envisaged per year? Today?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e314	As I have explained, an additional good export access for the fishing industry, which is today our main export industry for oil and gas, will be very important for Norway in the comprehensive and lengthy and hugely complex WTO negotiations we are now facing. Of course, the government is not prepared to sacrifice the fishing industry on the altar of other industries. But I would also like to say that we cannot sacrifice other industries that are important in terms of food preparation and housing beyond our country, for example. in the state from which the petitioner and the Prime Minister themselves come. I'll probably have to warn against setting one industry up against the other. We have set out a negotiation round from the Norwegian side where one tries to combine our offensive interests with our more defensive interests. This has been widely accepted in Stortinget, and that's the line we're following.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e321	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e324	I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question. As you know, the Storting Food Committee has been at a small event at Aker RGI and Mr. Smoke, and the Christian People's Party's nutritionist spokeswoman, Anita Apelthun Sæle, come out with the following hymn: « – He was so honest. He said straight out that he lives in London because he doesn't want to pay more taxes than he needs. He has not slaughtered any businesses. He's a Northman who's busy creating jobs. [[Christin Halvorsen]] There is no crime to be rich». Does Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik share this description of Kjell Inge Smoke?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e340	Now I wasn't at this much-described dinner, so what was going on there and how the conversation developed, I'm not going to take a stand on it, nor on what the newspapers wrote afterwards, was good for everything the various representatives said about this meeting, among other things. Mr Apelthun Seele. I think she will have certain reservations – as I understand it – against the colouring of this record. I think I have to deal with this matter in a different way, namely that we need industrial leaders in Norway who are busy both maintaining and creating new jobs. And it's not least important in industries where smoking has large holdings. In the case of Aker RGI in particular, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade has decided that Kjell Inge Smoke is to be subject to further testing under the Acquisition Act, which has some criteria to govern. This means, among other things: that the matter will also be referred to the relevant bodies. I will refrain from giving general characteristics, whether it be by smoking or other Norwegian industry leaders. As Prime Minister and Government, we need to deal with what we can do, and what governance we have, to ensure a healthy Norwegian industrial development.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e349	It is no wonder that one comes to the idea that it is necessary to ask the Christian People's Party the question of whether one has the necessary critical distance while dealing with the now controversial, serious issues that concern the purchase of Aker RGI and loans granted by Norwegian banks that finance the purchase, following the statements made by Apelthun Säle. This case raises many questions, but I can focus on one in this session. The Norwegian Bank, with a large amount of state ownership, has borrowed NOK 2.7 billion to Smoke to finance this purchase. Now there are many questions about how this loan has happened, and there has been a claim to DnB for an investigation. It's in this round rejected by DnB. Does the Prime Minister think it would have been wise for the Norwegian Bank to examine how the grant of this loan has occurred?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e359	First to the main question, whether the government has the necessary critical distance to what's going on in Aker RGI. Yes, we do. And precisely the Minister of Industry's intervention in the use of the acquisition law test is an expression that the Ministry of Industry and thus the Government will focus a critical search light on this. The use of the acquisition law for testing is not a daily phenomenon; it is a relatively strong instrument. And it shows that this we have a critical distance to. Although the state has a significant holding in the Norwegian Bank, we still follow – both this and previous governments – the policy that we do not rely on the bank's daily decisions, either in the case of loans of a significant size. I therefore do not think it is right for me to comment on whether the bank as such should or should not initiate an investigation of this special loan.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e364	There will be follow-up questions – Rolf Rikvam.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e367	I want to address my follow-up question to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e372	The President makes it clear that there are follow-up questions about the previous question to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e375	Yes, there are follow-up questions about the same question, but it goes to the Minister of Finance. That must be allowed, right?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e380	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e383	It is based on the actual treatment of the concession request which is now located in the ministry. It is well located in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, but I still want to address a question to the Minister of Finance. I assume that there is a pretty strong pressure both from banks and from Smoke to get further in this treatment. We know that this kind of treatment takes quite a long time, and my question to the Minister of Finance is: can we be sure that the department takes the necessary time and treats this application in a proper and thorough manner, and does not let itself be pressured by the strong interests that need to be behind in order to advance this? Obviously, a lot of people are looking for the money that Aker has – the bank is going to have its share, Smoke is going to have its share – and the pressure is probably high. Can we expect this to be dealt with in a proper, thorough manner, and that the department will not be pressured by the concession candidate?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e388	I do not understand correctly why this follow-up question should be addressed to the Minister of Finance and not to the Prime Minister, because the Prime Minister, like me, could have answered it naturally, that it would take the necessary time to deal with concession requests – in this case as in all other cases.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e393	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e396	I have a question for the Prime Minister about cooperation with the EU. This government has been exposed to the highly misleading characteristic of being a no-government, but it has all governments since 1994 been. They have built on the same basis — the referendum, the EEA and bilateral cooperation agreements with the EU, where one might find it necessary. I also have the impression that everyone in the UK and in the Government believes that an extension of the EU to Central Europe is an important contribution to European stability. The Prime Minister stressed this when he was in Germany. He stressed that an extension of the EU to Central Europe was an important contribution to European development and that Norway would help to ensure that these new Member States had as easy a transition as possible into the EU. And I ask then, what has the Prime Minister thought Norway should be involved in concretely expanding the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e403	In terms of concept use first: The government is based on the 1994 referendum result, and I remember that it was a no to Norwegian membership. It was not a refusal to cooperate with the EU as such, or with EU countries, but it should be done on a international legal basis and not on a supranational basis. Therefore, I have a very good conscience that Norway is actively working for such cooperation with the EU and with EU countries on this basis and on the basis of the referendum. With regard to relations with other countries with the EU, we respect the right of these countries to self-determination, in the same way that they respect Norway’s. We therefore assume that several former Communist countries, countries of Eastern and Central Europe, are applying for membership of the European Union. That is why we consider it important to contribute to this process in such a way that it creates a whole Europe without new dividing lines. Of course, we cannot directly influence these countries' negotiations with the European Union, but when they want membership, we can, among other things. by providing political and financial support to such countries to enable them to have the form of association they themselves wish. But this is the choice of these countries. Norway makes its choice.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e411	I did not mean that there was any reason for the Prime Minister to have a bad conscience for the work he was doing to increase cooperation with the EU. On the contrary, what is happening is important. I actually meant it as a support to the Government when I underlined what the Prime Minister said in his speech at the Konrad Adenauer Foundation, that Norway would be a party to the enlargement process and be with and facilitate the transition for new members. I also appreciate that the Prime Minister goes on here and says that the contribution can be in the form of financial support or in other ways. Does the Prime Minister think that this could be Norwegian action, or does he imagine Norway to be involved in negotiations, consultations, with the EU to find out where Norway is best placed to help achieve the enlargement?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e418	An important reason why we are interested in the association and possible membership of the EU of other countries is, of course, that when new countries join the EU as members they also become part of the EEA area, where Norway is involved. So this actually has a pretty direct effect on Norway. Therefore, it is of interest to us both to be continuously informed about the enlargement process, which we make sure to stay, and to contribute to this process being as painless as possible. This can, of course, be achieved through direct Norwegian action. We have support programmes for some Eastern European countries, for example: the Baltics, who are now applying for membership. But I think we can make a greater contribution through regional schemes in Europe, where Norway is also active. This is also in Norwegian interest, because these countries, if they become members of the EU, become part of the EEA territory.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e423	There will be follow-up questions – Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e426	I think everyone understands that we are going to vote on the referendum, and I am going to leave the EU debate. However, there is a paradox for some that we have a government that has been declared opposed to Norwegian membership but that is dependent on other countries joining the European Union. The Prime Minister’s speech in Berlin must be seen as more than an acceptance that other countries have a right of self-determination to decide whether they will become members, because the Prime Minister said that Norway would like to be a partner in this process and that Norway would facilitate the possibility for these countries to become members in a transitional phase. And then you do something more than accept that other countries can become members, you want to contribute to it by going in and supporting them. I think we still have not received a clear answer on how this support should be given. Should it be given in the form of financial support directly, as is currently provided through the EFTA Fund to Spain and Portugal, or should it be, for example, open for more trading?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e431	This is not a paradox at all. As I just said to the representative of Blankenborg, possible EU membership of Eastern European countries will have a direct effect on Norway because of the EEA Agreement. That is why we also have a self-interest in the fact that this can happen as painlessly and as best as possible, as part of European integration, on the basis of their own decision to seek membership. This is not the case for more eye-catching. As regards what kind of support we can give for this to happen as painlessly as possible, as I have already said, it can happen bilaterally. We have also stated that we would like to see the aid scheme in which Norway has now contributed to southern European areas also be turned against any Eastern European countries, which will later become members of the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e438	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e441	I'm glad the Prime Minister stresses that we have a no-regier, but it may be necessary to start practicing this no-one soon. A test piece on this will be when we are dealing with e.g. food make-up directive, patents in life or the baby food directives. Does the Prime Minister see it so that it is possible to practice the no in such a way that you can veto it? And does the Prime Minister see the need to make the concrete advantage of being outside the EU visible, and that the government's policy does not help us to become more adaptable than an EU Member State?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e448	Most EU directives that have been EEA-relevant have been relatively unproblematic for Norway, and they have been able to accept, among others, the Government. in agreement with the EEA body of Storting. There are now some directives that are very problematic. It's enough to mention the biotechnology, among other things. the question of patents, and the directives on food and baby foods. The government has clearly stated that here are the provisions that we see negatively and that we do not want to be applied in Norway. In what way it's going to happen, we have to come back after we've been through a procedure, for example. the collection of professional opinions on this matter. There may be different ways of dealing with the EU on this issue, with the aim of avoiding undesirable regulation and effects in Norway. The choice of the instrument is not the most important, but that we maintain a healthy food policy in this area in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e453	No pay - last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e456	The Prime Minister gave reasons for his unreserved withdrawal of the wish to expand the EU with new Member States, thereby enabling Norway to cooperate more closely within the EEA Agreement. There must be a paradox in this, because on the part of Norway we are only in company with Iceland and Liechtenstein. With all due respect for these countries, the total weight of meat is not the whole world. Does not the Prime Minister see a paradox that the gravity of this agency is constantly shifting to Norway's disadvantage?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e463	The most important thing for Norway with regard to the EEA Agreement is that it works well and as intended. It does. It has helped Norwegian companies to compete in the same way as EU companies in a single internal market. That's what matters. Everyone sees that there are different sizes of the two pillars of the EEA Agreement, and that that weight shift can be even stronger if and when more countries become members of the EU. But, as I said, the crucial thing for Norway is that the EEA Agreement works well and according to its purpose in the areas it covers, and it does. The fact that the former leader of the European movement would like this to be used as an argument that Norway should once again apply for membership is not surprising but fully understandable. For me, it is essential that the EEA Agreement, which is the form of connection we have chosen, works well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e469	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e472	I have a question for the Minister of Finance. After the budgetary reality we have now witnessed between the centre parties and the Workers' Party, one of the consequences has been that the very high and partly strange charges on the car have been continued or increased. One of them is the gas tax. The main reason for the high price of petrol in Norway is to a large extent the amount of the petrol charge. Every time the oil price increases, the gas price will only be higher. While oil prices are rising, the country's revenues are also increasing. The Progress Party has repeatedly called for the identification of a flexible petrol charging system, where the fee fluctuates in contrast to oil price developments. In a line change in the financial debate, the Labour Party's parliamentary leader said to Carl. I. Hagen that the Workers' Party could also assess a system to prevent the excessive fluctuations. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e481	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e484	What does the Council of State think of this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e489	I knew enough what the question was, namely whether the Minister of Finance could also consider a flexible petrol tax. I registered that, in my reply in the line-up in the financial debate, Jagland did not reject the idea and said that one could consider such a scheme, but I probably did not think that one could trace particular enthusiasm in the answer. I am therefore not sure, when you have been given more thought, that you also believe in the Workers' Party that it will be a good solution, as I understand that the Progress Party believes. For my part, at least I will not now signal that flexible charges should start on either petrol or other, depending on the market situation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e498	Does this mean that the Minister of Finance thinks that the level of today’s petrol prices is satisfactory? Or does the Minister of Finance think that there may be a need to reduce these charges, also because the car will be the most important means of transport in the foreseeable future? It is an important means of transport for maintaining housing in the districts. It is an important means of transport for families with children. It is an important means of transport for a number of older people in the country. This really means that the higher the gas tax, the more expensive it will be for each of us to buy petrol. Is the Minister of Finance very satisfied with the level of the petrol tax? Or will the Government take an initiative to somehow bring this level down?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e505	If the Minister of Finance was of the opinion that the level of charges, for example: on petrol was completely wrong, he would of course have to take an initiative to propose changes. This has not been done by the Minister of Finance in connection with this budget, and this must be interpreted in the sense that I believe that the level of fees we have must be defended. Moreover, it is not such that the petrol is especially expensive now in relation to ‘old days’. If you look at price developments, it's not $9-10 per. litres for petrol, which we have today, is deterrent to, for example, One-1.50, which we had early in the 1960s.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e512	Then we go to a new main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e515	I also have a question for the Minister of Finance. In hundreds of sports teams, corps and other voluntary teams and organisations, leaders and instructors do a formidable job for many young people in their spare time. Therefore, it is necessary to pinch in the arm when you see that the Ministry of Finance proposes rules that involve travelling to and from training initially being defined as a work trip and no longer as a professional trip. As a result, the whole mileage compensation becomes taxable profit. This is reflected in the recent series of very dubious proposals by the Ministry of Finance. If there are no sportsmen to take, there is parking at the employer or at home-pc paid by the employer. Can the Minister of Finance here and now assure the Storting that he has not intended to implement these rules?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e524	This issue was also addressed in a reply to the Prime Minister in the financial debate, and he clearly expressed the Government’s view of ‘placing’ the sports laws. The matter in question is very skeptical in the newspapers. You get the impression of what's in the papers, almost the impression that there's some kind of tax estimate against sports. That's not what's in the cards. The background to this at all in the media is that earlier this year the Ministry of Finance sent out a proposal for a regulation on professional travel and work travel. The reason why the ministry is now proposing a change of regulations here is that classification of such travel has proved problematic, so it has been difficult to decide whether the journey between home and work is to be characterised as a work trip or a professional trip. Therefore, it has been a problem to determine which tax, if any, should be imposed on employers for such travel. So the whole background for the proposal is general and has not been specifically targeted at sports organisations at all. The fact that this is not primarily directed at sports organisations shows the fact that sports organisations have also not been a consultative body. This is something designed by the media, especially by the Evening Post, I have noticed. I can assure you in the same way as the Prime Minister that it is not the government's policy to peck the wheels of the sports organizations. We do not want to impose tax burdens on those who do very valuable work for sport, a work effort that is very often unpaid.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e533	I thank you for your answer. The finance minister said that it was not intended that a change of the mileage compensation should be made, among other things. sports executives. However, the point is that as a result of the changes proposed by the Ministry to redefine a professional trip to work will lead, for example, to: A sports director who has NOK 27,000 in mileage compensation to drive from home to a sports field or area — where he is doing a great job — and back home will be able to get a tax boost of NOK 13 000 to NOK 14 000. In itself, I think it should have happened that the finance minister had just put the ball to death as soon as they were posted. But I am now recording that according to the Minister of Finance, sports leaders are not going to be covered by this tax tightening. In the case of taxes on home parking and free parking with the employer, do I wonder whether the Minister of Finance has also intended to waive this? Then the joy will rise further!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e543	The last two issues I have also recently had questions about in the Questionnaire, and I would like to refer to the answers I gave there. I think there's an unnecessary fear and mood here for what the Ministry of Finance can think of as a plague for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e548	Then we go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e551	I have a question for the Minister of Defence, if the Prime Minister does not insist on taking it. He's also affected. Work on strengthening the EU’s capacity for crisis management and peacekeeping actions is obviously of great importance, including for Norway. In particular, it would be problematic to disconnect ourselves from ongoing consultations in Western Europe on important security and defence policy issues. It is clear from the press that both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs have called for consultations following a special arrangement with the EU – following the Prime Minister’s visit to Germany, concretely stated as a possible joint body between the EU and non-EU Western European NATO countries. This can be well and good and a useful contribution, but it is far from enough. It's kind of NATO now, minus the United States and Canada. We are now fully involved in the advice of the Western Union for all practical purposes. Does this mean that the Government has sided with the desire to participate on a daily basis, both in the proposed Security Policy Committee in the EU and in the proposed Military Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e560	I can assure you that those members of the Government who have the opportunity to influence EU decisions in this process do so. I too, as Minister of Defence, do so in the context I have occasion to do so. We have explained in the Storting what ambitions we have in terms of being able to have influence in the new defence and security policy structure of the European Union. It is about being able to influence as early as possible both in discussions in general and in discussions leading to decisions, but, of course, we cannot be present in the forums where the EU takes its decisions. I'm going right after this questioning session to Brussels and I'm going to be at the NATO Defence Minister's meeting. There I will again present Norway's ambitions and see how far we can go.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e567	I don't doubt that the government here is doing what is possible, but I think a public more often should give the impression of what is the level of ambition. It is not particularly difficult to obtain consultation arrangements with the EU. I have attended many consultations with the European Union. This concerns participation in the day-to-day work on ongoing security and military issues. In the negotiating structure presented by the Government, I am familiar with the request to participate in the EU's internal bodies in these areas of speech and proposal law. But I think it's necessary to specify that this is something completely different and more extensive than meeting for political advice sometimes, because I don't think it's particularly difficult to do that. The EU has many such arrangements with non-governmental organisations and external groupings of countries. So I ask the Minister of Defence to make sure that this ambition is also expressed more clearly in the signals sent.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e576	Today, we have rights in the Western Union which are as clear as the representatives of Godal now speak. These are the same rights that we have in the Western Union today, as it is our ambition to achieve in the EU as well. We shall present this as clearly and as clearly as possible when we have occasion. What the EU process leads to at the Helsinki meeting is, of course, different. But we have high ambitions, just to try to achieve the highest possible goal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e581	The time for the oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e586	There will be a wide range of changes in the list of questions drawn up, and in this context the President will refer to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 6, from the representative Øystein Hedstrom to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Agriculture who directs him. Question 7, from the representative Børge Brende to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, has been transferred to the Minister for the Protection of the Environment, who is directing him. However, the question will be answered by the Minister for Development and Human Rights on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, who has been removed. At the request of the Minister for Development and Human Rights, this question is moved and answered in front of question 25, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 8, from the representative Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Finance on behalf of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, who has left. Question 10, from the representative of Ingvald Godal to the Minister of Justice, will be answered by the Minister of Labour and Administration on behalf of the Minister of Justice, who has been removed. At the request of the Minister of Labour and Administration, this question is moved and answered in advance of question 29 to be answered by the same Council of State. The question will be raised by the representative Kari Lise Holmberg. Questions 11 and 12 from the representatives of Rune E. Kristiansen and Inga Balstad, respectively, to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Administration on behalf of the Minister for Church, Education and Research, who has been removed. At the request of the Minister of Labour and Administration, these questions are also moved and answered in advance of question 29 to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 13, from the representative Rolf Rikvam to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 21, from the representative Torbjørn Andersen to the Minister for Health, will be answered by the Minister for Social Affairs who directs him. Questions 22 and 24, from the representatives of Børge Brende and Einar Olav Skogholt respectively to the Minister for Health, will be answered by the Minister for Social Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Health, who has left. Question 23, from the representative John I. Alvheim to the Minister for Health, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Questions 26 and 27, from Per Roar Bredvold and Torbjørn Andersen, respectively, to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Development and Human Rights on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, who has been removed. Question 28, by Mr Ivar Kristiansen's representative to the Minister of Labour and Administration, lapses because the questioner is not present. [[The fire alarm goes off]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e618	The size must now take a break to check what happens. The meeting was cancelled at 9.00 p.m. 11.05 The meeting continued its negotiations at 9.30 a.m. 11:25.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e634	I will be asked the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: «The Fädrelandsvennen 22 November 1999 shows that the municipal government meetings in the municipality of Vennesla in Vest-Agder are always opened with prayer and evening. It is clear from the paper that the way it works today is in practice part of the meetings of the Municipal Council. Some members of the local government have responded to this. Does the Council of State believe it is right that municipal councillors can be imposed at the beginning of municipal council meetings?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e643	As far as I am aware, the evening arrangements relating to the municipal board meetings in the municipality of Vennesla were introduced early in the 1950s and lastly dealt with as a matter in the municipal board in 1988. Against the SV's votes, it was then decided to maintain the scheme. As I am also aware, the current rapporteur took the initiative to discuss the continuation of the system in the context of constituent meetings of the local government, and I assume that the local government is able to find practical solutions if the system is to be maintained. I see few concerns about spending the night in front of a municipal board meeting, assuming that it is voluntary, and that there is a clear distinction between the evening and the municipal board meeting. I would like the scheme to be re-examined in the newly-elected local council, and that it seeks to find practical arrangements whereby the municipal board meeting itself will be set up at a time after the closure of the roof.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e654	I thank the Council of State for the answer and I am happy like him if there can be a local solution to this matter. I am also pleased that the Council of State agrees with me that consideration, Scripture reading and prayer should be a voluntary arrangement and not operate in practice as it does, among other things. clearly do so in Vennesla, by becoming part of the municipal board meeting and thus something that everyone has to attend. Of course, I have deep respect for those who want to participate in both the evening, the reading and the prayer, but like the Minister of the Council, I believe that this should be voluntary. I am also pleased that the Council of State supports me in the fact that the local government should review this, and that there should be a clear distinction between evening, Scriptural reading and prayer and regular local government meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e661	As I said in my first answer, this is a system that has been in the municipality since the early 1950s, and it has been essentially a unanimous municipal government that has joined this. As far as I am aware, the current rapporteur himself has taken the initiative to discuss the continuation of the system. I assume that it is going to be done, and that, as I said in my first answer, you locally find appropriate solutions if you want to maintain the system.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e669	I have a question for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. «In the establishment of asylum recipients where private operators are in charge of reception by the Directorate for Foreign Affairs [[UDI]] What requirements does the UDI place on crew size and qualifications when private operators are given operator responsibility, and what is the reason why the local UDI Office does not receive information about reports submitted to the police on offences committed by asylum seekers?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e678	When establishing state reception for asylum seekers, the UDI concludes agreements with different operators, which then assume responsibility for operating the receipts in accordance with the applicable guidelines. Operators may be municipalities, voluntary humanitarian organisations or private operators. At the conclusion of these operating arrangements, the same requirements and operating guidelines shall be used irrespective of who is the operator. The rules governing the operation of state reception require that specific functions are covered during the reception operation and not specific requirements concerning the size of the crew. In line with the requirements of the Regulation, receptions shall have a division of responsibilities and tasks between the operator, management, staff and residents ensuring that the various tasks of the administrative, organisational and habitable tasks are performed in the best possible way. In addition to these requirements, the persons responsible for the information and activity programme at the receptions and those responsible for the work with children and young people shall have professional competence or equivalent experience in these areas. With regard to the possibilities of the UDI regional offices to obtain information on police reports of asylum seekers, this is limited to situations where the reception staff is aware of the criminal situation. In the event of criminal offences in which the receipt is the offended party, the addressee shall report the matter. If the offended party is an employee or a resident, they must report the facts themselves. Where a resident has committed criminal offences in the reception and this has been notified, the head of reception shall send a notification to the UDI Central and the regional office concerned. The same shall also receive notification of criminal offences which have not been reported to the police, with an explanation of why this has not been done. It is of great importance that the police get knowledge of criminal offences committed both by asylum seekers and by other citizens. Asylum seekers should be treated in this respect in the same way as other citizens who commit crimes. Therefore, when other than the reception is offended, the reception shall draw the police's attention to criminal offences with which they are known and, as I have already mentioned, send a message to the UDI centrally and to the relevant regional office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e689	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I record that there is no requirement for qualifications when staffing asylum recipients. It must, in my opinion, be a great weakness. We read in the newspapers about people who come here with great trauma because of war effort, and there comes youth who has been child soldiers. Is it really that there is no need for highly qualified people to deal with these people, so that it can be done in the best possible way? On my second question, the Council of State replied that it would be sent to the local UDI office in case of a crime. He could try to call the UDI office in Narvik to find out how many crimes there are registered.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e698	Firstly, as I said in my reply, those responsible for the work with children and young people must have professional skills or similar experience in these areas. It is also the case that, in relation to mental or physical problems that asylum seekers must have, health professionals and other competences are used to deal with such matters. Initially, asylum seekers are residents on reception until their residence or return to their country of origin takes place, and they are primarily responsible for their own situation. They live on shelters that are staffed to take care of the functions that an asylum-seeker is required to take care of. As I also said, it is the UDI that – under the conditions laid down in my first answer – is to notify the police of various offences, and it is important that asylum seekers are treated in the same way as any other citizen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e707	I can't believe it, I have to point out that a number of places where there are asylum recipients, and especially when a new asylum recipient is established, there are major conflicts between the local population and the asylum seekers. In my own hometown, it has become a major problem for the police. There are knife use, shelling, reports to the police of any kind of violation of order rules and other reports. But you call the local office of UDI in Narvik, they have not registered a single report, precisely because it is UDI central that is being notified. So, it is probably part of UDI’s practice that no information should be provided — as the Council of State itself has responded to earlier in the Questionnaire.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e712	Increasing use of violence is a problem in many areas, one that both central and local authorities need to take seriously. No matter who is responsible for this violence, there is a development that cannot be accepted. And one has to do that one can to create different attitudes and understanding that this is a development that none of us are worthy of. I said in my first answer and I repeat that both the regional offices and the UDI should have a central message when there are reviews of residents at the reception. It's solid. I am not aware of the specific matter to which the representative Bastesen refers, but there are clear guidelines on how this type of case should be reported.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e722	I will allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘Right, there has been a principle that property taxes should be a voluntary tax in municipalities. The existence or absence of property taxes shall not be taken into account in the allocation of framework transfers and discretionary means. State Secretary Olav Ulleren has, by 19 November 1999 at the latest, given unclear signals about the Government's position. Does the Council agree that property tax should be a real voluntary municipal tax form?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e731	The question raised by the representative Solberg was assessed by Stortinget in the context of the review of the guidelines on the assessment grant in the context of the examination of the municipal economic proposal for 2000. It is stated in the proposition: «The income-balancing subsidy in the income system covers only taxes on income and wealth of municipalities. Taxes on ownership, concessional income and ownership income are among those income which, for that reason, is not included in the basis of the income-balancing grant. The guidelines state that this does not prevent the judges from taking such revenues into account in an overall assessment of the finances of municipalities.’;» In its attitude to this proposition, an overall municipal committee expresses the following: ‘The Committee has taken note of the presentation by the Government of the criteria for the award of a discretionary grant.’;» A minority from the Progress Party and the Right disagree that the level of taxes and property taxes should affect the award of the discretionary grant. I interpret this in such a way that the majority of the Committee supports my view and the Government's view: Property tax is a voluntary municipal tax form in the sense that property tax should not be included in the basis for framework transfers through income-balancing subsidies. However, when allocating discretionary funds, property taxes may be included in an overall assessment. This may, for example: be relevant to issues relating to the award of judgement to a municipality which has brought itself into a difficult economic situation. It is then reasonable to assess the extent to which the municipality has used its own income base before providing specific State aid through judgement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e748	I note that the Council of State, which has two secretaries of state, is now clearly violating the principles of property tax which one of these, in its role as fiscal spokesman in the previous period, made itself a spokesman on behalf of the Centre Party, namely that this should be real, and that it should not be taken into account in the allocation of discretionary funds. However, when the Council of State now refers to the opinions of the Community economic proposition, which I am also aware of, this leads to a question: Should there not be a clear view by the Government on this issue, rather than that this is left to an assessment by the individual statesmen? At present there are different budgetary processes in place in the municipalities. In relation to the municipality of Farsund, as I mentioned in the question, the representative of the county council states that property tax to the municipalities should not affect the size of the discretionary funds. In relation to the municipality of Meland in Hordaland, the county council has clearly announced that they will not be given discretion if they do not introduce property taxes. This is a fairly different treatment that is not worthy of elected bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e757	As I said in my first answer, in some situations there may be a basis for assessing whether a municipality should be allocated discretionary means if the income base has not been fully exploited. This isn't the rule. As a general rule, property taxes are to be a voluntary form of municipal tax, whereby municipalities themselves are to stand free as to whether or not they choose to introduce them. But at the same time, you have to take into account that there has to be a somewhat similar treatment for municipalities. When some municipalities make full use of their income base in order to avoid a difficult economic situation, while others do not, it is also unreasonable if those municipalities that have not fully exploited the income base are to be compensated more by the use of discretionary means than the municipalities that have used property taxes. So it also has to be a reasonable level of non-discrimination in the use of discretionary means. This is for the county to assess, but that assessment is carried out in close cooperation with the ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e764	I find that we add a completely different content to the concept of real voluntary municipal tax in relation to property tax. I would like to ask the Council of State more about the fact that it is a public official who is going to make assessments, which are going to review the local government, the local choice not to impose property taxes, and whether he does not regard it as a challenge and undermining local self-government when making the county a review of one of the most important discussions you have in connection with municipal elections. In addition, the situation is such that some municipalities cannot impose property taxes because property taxes are limited to areas with built-in strips. So how does the Council of State view the fact that, for some municipalities, Stortinget has already initially excluded the possibility of property tax, because the law does not allow them to collect it? How can you get equal treatment for municipalities when the premises are so different?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e773	Let me say it this way: all municipalities are to be allocated discretionary means based on real needs and financial situation. It implies that, of course, non-taxable municipalities should not be deducted, of course, should not receive lower allocations of discretion than they would otherwise have received, because they have not imposed property taxes. But neither should they be overcompensated, so they should not receive a higher allocation than they would have received if property taxes had been introduced. The principle here, including as regards the allocation of discretionary funds, is as objective as possible and as non-discriminatory as possible between municipalities. The introduction of property taxes is voluntary; it is an assessment that the municipalities themselves make, but they cannot expect to receive compensation through additional allocation of discretion if they have not introduced property taxes. So you have to be treated equally regardless of whether you have chosen to introduce property taxes or not.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e783	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs: ‘We have recently received alarming reports on the treatment and inadequate treatment of children and young people in private child protection institutions. What will the Council of State do to improve this situation for some of our most vulnerable children?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e792	There is every reason to take seriously all the reports of abuses at child protection institutions. If a person becomes aware that he has committed such an act without the institution or supervision having responded, it is of the opinion that the matter should be reported to the police. Many of the issues that have been resolved in the media are years old, and they are too far cleared up. Media look-ups are rarely representative of the general features. The Ministry is in good contact with the county councils, which have the professional responsibility for the institutions, and with the county councillors, who supervise them. In the counties there is a continuous effort to improve the institutions. The Ministry of Children and Family Affairs has issued ear-marked funds every year since 1995 to strengthen the skills of children and young people who are placed in institutions, especially children and young people with serious behavioural disabilities. Among other things, teams or guidance services are set up to help municipalities find the right measures and follow up on the measures. Many municipalities also work on the quality assurance of institutions as part of the development of competence. We're going to continue with this promise. Compared to private institutions, a project has been carried out in the county municipalities in 1998-99, where one has gone through all the private institutions that the county municipalities use. The aim is to eliminate measures that do not keep professional goals. The result is now in the form of proposals for an obligatory cooperation procedure. Without such a cooperation contract, a private institution will not be used in the future. The Ministry meets the county councils under their responsibility for all institutions for children and young people. To further clarify this, Stortinget has recently adopted a change to the Children's Protection Act § 5-8 which means that if the county wants to use a private institution, he must investigate and, where appropriate, ensure that the institution is operated in accordance with the laws and otherwise in a professionally defended manner. In recent times, many statesmen have had problems fulfilling their promise of eight visits a year to institutions where children and young people are placed under the coercive provisions of the Children's Protection Act. But it's not the same thing that they have bad knowledge of these institutions. Oversight is finding smaller and larger deviations, leading both to improvements and, in some cases, to a stoppage, possibly to the closure of the institution. There are several reasons why supervision is strained by the number of supervision visits at the level required by law. As mentioned here in the Question Time a couple of weeks ago, the resource situation in employment has made supervisory work difficult. We've also had a growth in private institutions that accept children and young people according to behavior paragraphs. Many of these institutions are actually private homes with only one or two clients. Nevertheless, they shall have their regulatory oversight visits. An important factor in relation to the issue raised is that today there are some young people in institutions that should not be there. A group of experts appointed by the Norwegian Research Council on a mission from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs in 1998 concluded that young people with serious behavioural problems are not particularly benefiting from institution retirement. In the light of this conclusion, these two departments have undertaken a major effort to develop alternatives to the institutional position of children and young people with serious behavioural problems. The new methods are family-based and community-based and aim to prevent institution placement. Moving resources towards the prevention field will help those with behavioral problems, as well as making institutions better for those who need them. In order to maintain a high level of preparedness and focus on possible institutional abuse situations, the Ministry also has work to develop guidelines and procedures for dealing with cases where there is a suspicion of sexual abuse by adding. This work will be completed in the new year and includes schools and kindergartens. We can never guard against abuse, either in child protection institutions or in other places. We can only do our best not to interfere. My strategy in relation to this will be to continue with the good work that we have already seen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e818	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was a good and thorough answer, and many of the thoughts I was looking for came out there. But the things I've referred to are not old. And despite all of the good control bodies that are going to be in this area, it happens anyway. At a child-rescue facility in East Agder, a 14-year-old got hold of a gun. According to the newspapers he got gun training, and he shot and wounded an employee in the institution seriously with a 22-caliber saloon gun. The presence of weapons in child protection institutions is unacceptable. The boy is in an institution, among other things. for repeated ranes of elderly women in Oslo. Earlier this year, an employee of another institution was stabbed with a knife. What will the Council of State do to gain control of treatment provision in private institutions so that a much better quality of this offer can be ensured?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e829	I would like to stress that both of the two issues mentioned by the representative are clearly unacceptable, and there was also an immediate intervention. One should have intervened before, so that it had not happened. There's kind of a repetition for parts of my previous answer. Some of the new things that we're dealing with are actually the quality assurance of all the private institutions that we have. As the representative knows, we've got a lot of new private institutions, and we see that we have to follow closely the quality they can offer to young people and children. The quality assurance that I mentioned in my previous answer is new, and of course we have not seen any results yet. But I sincerely hope that it will be involved and prevent such events as the representative mentioned. In addition, I can mention that we have a selection – the Befring selection – that will go through the whole area of child protection, the foster home problem and the law and the use of institutions, and I hope we can get some there to improve the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e843	I will ask the Minister for Children and Family Affairs the following questions: ‘During the summer, the National Meeting of the Western Institutional Federation decided that women should be refused to sit as members of the organisation’s board of directors. What does the Council of State think of this discriminatory decision?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e852	As Minister for Gender Equality, of course, I am committed to preventing discrimination against women in decisions. I mean that women shouldn't be shut out from decisive organs alone because they're women. I am constantly looking to improve the tools at my disposal. That is why I have recently also sent out a hearing proposal for a new and better equality law, precisely to promote gender equality with a particular aim of improving the position of women. All forms of discrimination on the grounds of sex are already contrary to gender equality law and international obligations in this area. Gender equality is the duty to ensure that equality laws are respected and enforced, through the management of complaints or own actions. Equality-free debt in all areas of society, but – and this is important in this particular context – the law has an exception to the internal conditions of trust societies. The exception applies to all trust societies, both this community and the Norwegian Church. The activities of faith societies, which have a close connection with religion itself, are exempt from the law, that is, not all activities in faith societies are exempt from the equality law. The reason for the derogation in the Equality Act for ‘internal relations in religious communities’ is inter alia: Paragraph 2 of the Constitution, which states that everyone has the right to free religious practice in Norway. So here's the important consideration facing each other. What can be considered an ‘inner relationship in religious communities’ comes to some extent to the point of discretion. In the preliminary work for the law, Ot. pp. No 33 for 1974-75, there are examples of some conditions, including the addition of priests, publishers, etc. If it is contrary to belief to have a female mind in a dissenting sound, there would be an intervention in the freedom of religion if Section 4 of the Equality Act was to apply to additions. The Equality Act thus does not prevent women from participating in certain religious acts and having certain positions or functions in trust societies. I take note of the decision of the West Institudinal Federation. Whether I like it or not, it's really uninteresting, but I'm also counting on the Western Insidious Federation to be able to do its own thing for the decisions that they themselves have made.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e867	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, and I must start by saying that I do not think it is uninteresting what the Council of State thinks in this matter. Today, we have a law on equality, and it is known as an exception to the internal conditions of religious communities. But the gender equality law we have today is precisely about promoting gender equality, especially with a view to improving the position of women. This is what I believe – and I hope the Minister for Gender Equality too believes – should apply to Christian organisations. I think having equal opportunities today, whether it's education, work, cultural or professional development, should be a matter of course. I also hope that the Christian organizations will comply with the Equality Act in a completely different way than we have seen. In the summer we saw strong reactions from very many women who were active in Christian organizations, at that very decision, which was then taken at the meeting of the Western Institudinal Federation. What many thought was that this decision was highly discriminatory.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e874	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e877	I am somewhat uncertain about what to answer, but I agree with the representative when it concerns the fight for women's rights, and I can agree to everything she said. When I say that it's not so interesting what I mean, I'm of course going to follow the equality law, and I do, but I think it's important to stress that we have an exception, and it's also true in this situation that the questioner asked questions about. To answer the question of what I think: If I had been a member of the West Indremition Federation, I had actively supported a decision other than what was taken. And I know there were many others who did too. Now I am not a member of this organisation, so I take note of what they have done, and then I actually expect that there are processes in the organisation that take place in all other organisations that have similar laws and make similar decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e884	I'm sorry that the time was a little too short. Of course, I am very pleased that the Council of State believes that the Equality Act should not be interpreted in such a way that women are prevented from participating in certain religious acts. I also interpret the Council of State as meaning – and we got a clear answer to that – that the decision in the Western Institudinal Association is clearly contrary to today’s equality law. We are therefore hoped that the Christian organizations will take this seriously, especially when it comes from an equality minister from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e889	That I agreed with most of what the representative said in the first round is correct. But what I'm totally in conflict with the representative is that what has happened is contrary to the equality law. We have an exception, and it has benefited from the Western Institudinal Federation. I actually want to defend that they should have the right to do so. So if I don't agree with the decision that's been made, one has the exception. I think it's important to fight for women's position and for a good law, but at the same time we're also going to fight to keep the freedom that one actually has, and try to use other channels to influence society and organizations to take positions that, in my view, might be more correct than what was stated in the decision that was made this summer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e897	This question, from the representative of Øystein Hedstrom to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Agriculture who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e900	I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture: ‘The price of TINE Norske Meierierier’s combined milk, used for yellow cheese, is calculated at the selling price of the representative product, half-kilo’s packaging of Norvegiaost. Based on a comprehensive study, Synnøve Finden believes that Tine is dumping cheese prices. By increasing the price of the representative product, but otherwise lowering the price, a high price level for competitors is maintained. Does the Government consider this to be the way to deal with the balancing mechanism?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e909	As I understand it, the study here is referred to, based on prices out at the store, i.e. prices at retail level. The price equalisation scheme is based on the prices of milk and milk products in the Agreement on Agriculture and is set at a wholesale level. Since the abolition of the maximum price rules for milk sales by dairies from 1 January 1997, there is no public regulation of prices for milk and milk products downstream of the wholesale level. In other words, shops make price fixings on dairy products in the same way as for other foodstuffs, and can make the desired price differentiations. According to the information received from the Ministry of Agriculture from Tine, the referenced price evolution of cheese in shops cannot be attributed to the prices Tine has put on sale from dairies to wholesalers. During the last two years, the types of cheese covered by the survey have had parallel price developments at wholesale level, and the changes in the period may be related to changes in the agricultural contract price of the representative. In the milk price system of the Agreement on Agriculture, there are seven different product groups each which have defined a representative product with associated cost calculations and calculated commodity values. These are the products for which prices are set in the agricultural agreement. For the product group in question, i.e. Mature oysters are thus Norvegia in semi-kilos packages the representative product. The agricultural agreement lays down the price adjustments for the other products in the respective product groups. That is to say, all products placed in the same product group shall be priced on the basis of the representative product. This means that if it had been recorded that Tine had different prices for different types of cheese in the same price group on the basis of dairies and that this could not be attributed to different processing costs, this would have been contrary to the intention of the agricultural agreement. However, as mentioned earlier, this is not the case based on the information received by the Ministry. The follow-up of any anti-competitive price discrimination between products not priced in the agricultural holding falls within the competence of the competition authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e920	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is good to hear that the information that has come from Synnovene Find is probably incorrect, and that there is a trend towards greater competition, as is the intention of the majority of the Stortinge. The Turnover Council decided on 19 March this year to limit the universal service of Tine to private dairies. This was claimed for the Department of Synnøve Finden. This case has been silent for a while, so I am a little curious and will now hear if the department has dealt with this anchor and made a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e927	I would like to have said that I am very concerned that the smoothing system will work completely according to its intention. TINE Norse Meierien shall neither serve nor lose on this scheme. A manipulation with pricing would therefore be totally unacceptable from the department's point of view. But as I have said, the studies that have been carried out do not indicate that there is any default in that area. So to a completely different case, that doesn't apply to the question. But I can inform the representative Hedstrøm that this complaint procedure is completely in the final phase, and that answers will be available if not for too long – to express myself that way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e934	Question 7 will be dealt with later, after question 24.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e940	This question, from the representative Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Finance on behalf of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e943	One allows me to ask the following questions to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade: «Gastronomical Institute is a foundation which, in close cooperation with the Norwegian University of Hotel in Stavanger, aims to carry out development and study activities in order to advance the gastronomic level in Norway. This has important implications for the business community in this field where the Stavanger University has a top competence. What can the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, or other departments, contribute to securing this work in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e952	On behalf of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, I will be given the following answers: The Gastronomic Institute has an important function in the food environment both nationally, in Rogaland and in relation to the Stavanger College, the Department. Norwegian hotel high school. As an essential part of the food-based environment in Rogaland, which is described as food-based in Norway, the location at the University’s premises is favourable. The Gastronomic Institute has top international competence both through participation in the national cooks team and through its profiling activities of the Norwegian Export Council, and is of great importance for the export of Norwegian food. It will be important for this competence to be disseminated to the national environment. This is done directly to the industry through course activities and cooperation with the College of Stavanger at the Department. Norwegian hotel high school about study facilities within the area. This is especially the case in the context of the new two-year study in kitchen and restaurant management at Högskolan, where the Gastronomic Institute plays an essential role in its top competence in food. The establishment of internationally recognised wine training is also envisaged in cooperation with the Gastronomic Institute. Furthermore, cooperation between the College in Stavanger, section has begun. Norwegian hotel high school, on various research projects. The first example of this will be the introduction of new technologies in food production in the tourism industry. The project, starting in January 2000, will be funded by the Norwegian Research Council. The Minister of the Church, Education and Research, as well as the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, sees positively the good alliances of universities and universities with various private and state institutions. This type of cooperation contributes to the promotion of innovation and industrial development at both local and national level, while at the same time it could be professionally enriching for educational institutions. The cooperation with the Gastronomic Institute is undoubtedly very valuable for the College of Stavanger. It is important to have a good regulatory framework for the cooperation of educational institutions with private institutions. The legislation must take account of the soundness and sound management of public funds. At the same time, such rules must provide flexibility for institutions to establish appropriate mechanisms that can contribute to increasing the level of cooperation with external actors and to enhancing the quality of continuing training activities. The Ministry of the Church, Education and Research is currently working on the follow-up of the Mjøs Subcommittee on the Organisation of Contracting Activities. In this context, the existing legislation on cooperation between educational institutions and private foundations or companies will be reviewed to determine whether there is a need for change. Over five years, the Gastronomic Institute has had a cooperation agreement with the State Enterprise and District Development Fund (SND) on the establishment of the Institute. SND has contributed 5 million. kr to the contract, which ends in the current year. In addition, the Institute has had a public research and development contract with the Radium Hospital. As a business of competence, a larger IT project is now planned to start up in 2000. It is important that the Gastronomic Institute will continue to benefit from the support apparatus in the future, in line with other competence companies.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e969	I thank the Minister of Finance for the answer, which I thought was positive in the sense that there was a very positive presentation by the Gastronomic Institute. On the other hand, there was not so much new about the possibility of support. What the Council of State said, as far as I could get, was that they were being supported for research projects. The point is that they do a lot of uninhabitable work, and the ringing effects benefit people other than themselves. And that's important. It could be interesting and a good contribution if the state could bring something more than research and project right support to the Gastronomic Institute. Now the Minister of Finance may not be able to answer this, but I hope that I can get feedback on it at least in a later context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e978	As the questioner also suggested at the end of the question, this is not my subject, and therefore it is not reasonable that I interfere with what the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade and his department can now suggest of further support, but I will take the question with me. I feel that there was also a wish in the question that such support would be sought. Then you get to wait for the answer from the department.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e986	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Finance: ‘The Swedish Systembolaget will now build a series of pole sales along the Norwegian border. Most wines and spirits are much cheaper in Sweden, and many believe that the new sales will run the border trade even more in the weather when this range of products becomes even more accessible to the Norwegian people. What can the Council of State expect to do to reduce border trade, possibly with a view to reducing Norwegian prices?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e995	The majority of the financial committee has asked the Government to assess the need for changes in the alcohol charging system in the context of the presentation of the revised national budget 2000, with a view to possible changes in alcohol taxes from 2001. In the budget agreement with the Labour Party, it is agreed that the charging scheme must be based on the continuation of drug policy objectives, while promoting legal movement and limiting border trade. In the context of the review of the revised national budget in 2000, the Government will also assess whether wine and spirits have become more easily available to the Nordics in the Swedish Systembolaget, among others. by the fact that there may have been several sales at the Norwegian border.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1002	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Does the Minister of Finance think that the Swedish Systembolaget is building these new pole sales for the Swedish population, or do they think that Norway, with its high prices, is a huge market that needs to be set up in order to make a lot of money? It is likely – with the Swedish pole prices and the other cheaper products in Sweden, such as tobacco, snuff, groceries, diesel, for example, which on the Swedish side costs DKK5.10 for almost DKK9 in Norway – that our trade leakage to Sweden is increasing every day. This results in relocations in the Norwegian districts, they lose many services, such as: local stores. How seriously does the Minister of Finance view this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1014	I don't know how many times I've been here in the pulpit and I've responded to the questionnaire, but there's not a few in the two years I've been a finance minister. The answer has largely been that there is a worrying development in border trade, although border trade should not be characterised as a problem in itself. It is normal that there is cross-border trade when neighboring people live so close to each other. But there's a lot of uncertainty about the scope. However, much indicates that this has a scale that we should have seen less. That is why the Ministry of Finance has launched an investigation into the extent to which it is involved, and perhaps in particular what goods it is that contribute to this border trade. Because there is a tendency, especially from the Bredvolds party, to focus on pole prices, alcohol taxes and tobacco taxes, but they avoid mentioning that there may also be a point of food prices. Well, the progress is going against a reduced food tax. In spite of uncertainty, it is at least known that the maximum amount of cross-border trade in food is linked to the trade in food.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1019	I thank you again for the answer. The finance minister mentions that this question has been raised many times. Yes, it shows how serious this matter is, and then there must be no doubt that something has to be done, and that it has to be done quickly. In my home country, Hedmark, the authorities are, in my opinion, very much in favour of increasing border trade in spirits and the other goods cheaper in Sweden than in Norway. NSB bus routes have set up bus routes that go to trading centres on the Swedish side. The trip costs NOK 50 return, so that everyone can have a good net benefit from the shopping trip. Is this a correct decision of a public establishment, thus reinforcing this trade leakage?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1026	I don't want to characterize the activities that some people do and that increase border trade, as they say. It may well be that there is something else behind it than just wanting to increase the border trade. I know that buses to Sweden are being set up in central Norway, where border trade is of course a result, but the goal is also a relaxation trip, among other things. for pensioners. So Bredvold says that something has to be done, and I agree. First, we have to clarify what the problem really is, and then we have to evaluate what needs to be done. But since we already know, as I said in my previous answer, that the largest amount in crowns is food trade, the government will follow up on the VAT reform for spring and propose a lower VAT on food, so that the prices of food in Norway and Sweden are more similar.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1033	Questions 10, 11 and 12 will be answered later before question 29.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1046	This question has been postponed to the next question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1052	‘In Today’s Business November 23, 1999, we are told that the Swedish Aviation Agency is investigating the possibility of building up to 7 new hotels associated with the largest airports in Norway. The property manager, Lars Mork Gundersen, at the Swedish Aviation Agency, says that they consider everything from attaching reasons to investing directly in the projects. Can the State Council confirm that it is not appropriate for the Swedish Aviation Agency to invest directly in these projects?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1059	The Aviation Agency is responsible for the development and operation of a total of 45 airports. The activities are self-financing, where the profitable parts of the system contribute to the financing of the development and operation of those airports with a business deficit. The economic plans developed for the operation show that the Aviation Agency is likely to have a tight financial environment in the coming years. Revenue from commercial activities at airports will therefore be important in order to enable the Aviation Agency to maintain its self-financing capacity and thereby maintain its level of investment. The Aviation Agency is currently investigating a number of commercial areas to look at the possibilities of increasing commercial revenues. The development of hotels is an area. Oslo Airport AS has completed a hotel extension on Gardermoen, with Radisson SAS operating from the hotel. Based on this experience, the Aviation Agency assesses similar projects at other major aerodromes. I would like to stress that it is an important and necessary task for the Aviation Agency to ensure sufficient revenue to meet the obligations of the aviation system of the whole country. The investments or capital contributions that may be required to realise new commercial projects will not be at the expense of investment measures in the airport system but will contribute positively by ensuring the system a better overall economy. I would therefore like to point out that the primary task of the Swedish Aviation Agency is to expand the infrastructure in aviation. The additional tasks I have mentioned are interesting only as far as they make a positive financial contribution to the core activity of the Aviation Agency, and the risks of the projects are low.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1070	Now I have to say right away that I have nothing against new hotels at airports in Norway, but I have absolutely a lot against the fact that the state interferes in the development of this. I can take Stavanger Airport as an example. It is a gold mine for the Swedish Aviation Agency, and we in the Stavanger area have been working for many years to further develop it so that it will be even more lucrative for the Swedish Aviation Agency to have that airport. This doesn't happen. This is the primary task of the Aviation Agency. Can I get assurances from the Minister that this is now being taken seriously, and that this airport – which already today, after being operational for such a short time after its expansion, is far too small – will receive the means needed to operate effectively in the future as well?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1075	This was probably a slightly different angle and a slightly different question, but I could try to answer that. In the case of Stavanger airport in concrete terms, it is within the plans of the Aviation Agency for the following year and within the budgetary frameworks proposed earlier. I must also admit that the Government has proposed to the Stortinget to look at the organisation of the Aviation Agency in company contexts, in order to enable the Aviation Agency to borrow in the ordinary market and finance business-economically profitable parts of its operations, among others. on the investment side. Stavanger airport is one of the airports that will be able to finance a good part of the borrowings needed for further development. Just this question, the government, as we have announced in the proposition, will follow up with the Stortinget and come back to in a later round next year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1084	The President would remind us that additional questions should be questions of follow-up and not new questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1087	I thank you for your answer. I felt this was a follow-up question, President, because what I'm coming up with now again, the primary task that the Swedish Aviation Agency has, was the minister himself; that's what they should care about first. I am a little shocked when I hear that they are working on the idea of building seven new hotels before they intend to arrange the airports they are responsible for operating – and then I think for the public's sake. That is why I ask a closing question to the Minister: does not the Minister feel that it must be first and foremost to do for the Aviation Agency to take the primary task of which the Minister himself was involved in his first post?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1096	Well, as I said in my first post, it's important and right, and the most important and correct thing, that the Aviation Agency is occupied with its primary tasks. And I said, ‘The primary task of the Air Navigation Agency is to expand the infrastructure of aviation. The additional tasks I have mentioned are of interest only to the extent that they make a positive financial contribution to the core activity of the Aviation Agency and the risks of the projects are low.» But then I have to add that, in addition to the fact that the Aviation Agency is to be self-financing, they have a task of ensuring that they receive commercial revenues, in addition to the ordinary fee paid in aviation terms, in order to solve their tasks. If they didn't do the job of being self-financing in commercial revenues, there are two ways in my view: one is that the charges in aviation are increasing, the other is that the state is paying more for the unprofitable services, and none of the two are we probably interested in, either the asker or the council.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1109	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘This year there have been a number of fires in tunnels out in Europe with the loss of a number of lives. PE foam has been used as insulation material in a number of tunnels in Norway, including in the subsea tunnels into Ålesund. This material is highly flammable and there is great fear of what will happen if a fire occurs here. Will the State Council take the initiative to remove the PE foam from Norwegian tunnels?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1118	PE foam is also used as water and frost protection in Norwegian tunnels. In order to reduce the risk of fire, a programme has been implemented by the State Road Service to secure tunnels with high traffic work by spraying a concrete layer on the outside of the PE foam layer. This programme was completed about three years ago. The method used is approved by the fire protection authorities and a legislation has been established on how to do so. I have been informed from the State Road Administration that in the Ålesund tunnels the PE foam sheets are already fireproof. However, tunnels still have unprotected PE foams. These are low-traffic tunnels — either low-traffic tunnels or short-distance tunnels where the risk of major fire impacts is relatively small. In my view, it would hardly be proper to use scarce resources to replace today's water and frost protection in these tunnels with significantly more expensive solutions. However, the issue of upgrading existing tunnels will be considered in the context of the national transport plan for the period 2002 to 2011. Fire protection of PE foam is one of several important measures that will be relevant in this context. The means of such action in tunnels must be constantly weighed against the social benefits offered by the various measures. There are few fires in Norwegian tunnels. Statistically, fewer accidents occur per year. passenger kilometres in tunnels other than on the road network. It is therefore important to see measures in tunnels in the context of other road safety activities and to make best use of available resources.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1131	I thank the Council of State for the answer. This year there have been several large fires out in Europe. The Mont Blanc tunnel and the Tauern tunnel are mentioned, with more than 50 deaths. Following these fires, Norwegian media were full of horror scenarios about what could happen in Norwegian tunnels. On 29 June this year, Norway experienced a fire in a tunnel under construction, followed by an explosion in which three people lost their lives and 14 were injured. The Directorate of Fire and Explosion Protection, head of section Hans-Jørgen Eriksen, tells NTB that the dynamite in these tunnels exploded because it was stored with teeth. At the same time he says that the dynamite could have exploded anyway. Former Minister of Transport Kjell Opseth received a question from Jan Simonsen on 8 December 1993, and the then Councillor Opseth answered: ‘In the 1980s, however, some road tunnels became frozen with insulation material which later appeared to be fire-hazardous in certain contexts.’ I just want to ask the following question: why is it still, in 1999, used PE foam in tunnels, when the Road Directorate would replace this insulation material in 1994-1995, according to the response of the then State Council, Opseth?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1147	After this response was given, extensive efforts have been made to secure the PE foam and thus make these tunnels referred to, less flammable or non-flammable in the case of insulation. However, the short tunnels have not been prioritised in this context, simply because the risk of fires has been seen as relatively small and the means of rescue or escape as very good. In the case of newly built tunnels, fire safety is already included in the development. Also in the context of next year's budget, it is set off, as far as I remember, approx. Forty million. kr for tunnel protection in this sector. It means, in other words, that there is ongoing work, but the intensity and size of the fire safety will always be discussed whether it is large enough and good enough, and it has to be assessed in relation to the number of accidents inside the tunnel relative to outside the tunnel.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1154	Now it is that I have followed in part of the discussion that has taken place in the media in connection with the fire safety of the Ålesund tunnels. I myself run these tunnels often and have noticed that PE isolation many places in the tunnels are completely bar. The cover that should have been there, and which was possibly once applied, is now washed away or dropped off due to damage and other things. I have also registered that the fire manager in Ålesund does not receive the documentation he requires from the State Road Administration in connection with these tunnels. When we then see, according to Drammen's Official Journal and Buskerud Blade, that an air duct is covered with insulation material PE foam, and that this foam was not covered out of the canal where this disaster fire occurred, it is with great concern that I think what could happen in a tunnel where it is installed 108 000 km2 with the same insulation. I would then like to ask the Minister for Transport the following question: Has the Minister for Transport made any sense about what happens if a car collides with the PE mats and comes into fire? Will the front end fire protection be effective? And what will the Council of State do to ensure that the fire director of Ålesund is provided with the documentation to accompany such a facility?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1161	My information, which I referred to instead, suggests that the Ålesund tunnels are adequately covered in relation to the fire hazard that exists. I take note that what is damage, as it is now pointed out, can lead to other results, and it is natural that it is followed up further. Whether this is such that it in itself creates greater uncertainty, I dare not have any opinion about today, but I register what has been said. However, I have to remind you that when you have much greater uncertainty about what's going on inside a tunnel, it's probably because events in a tunnel seem much more frightening than events out there today. But in relation to the accidents that occur outside, tunneling in Norway is one of the safest. It shows all the statistics. But we are going to follow closely in the development further in this sector. And as I said, all the new tunnels are sufficiently secure. It's the old ones we've now taken on to fix them in relation to the fire hazards that had to exist. But I can't guarantee that all the short tunnels will get a solution that the queryer is asking for today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1172	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Each road office receives about 75-100 applications per year for display signs for enterprises, etc. Now it turns out that to process about 100 pieces of road signs, each road office needs a full 1 1⁄2 year's work. Is the Council of State of the opinion that this is an effective and well-used use of means of transport?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1181	At each road office, about 1.5 years of work is likely to be used on average for proceedings in the area of traffic signs. This includes not only road identification to enterprises, but also all other national and county roads, assessment of speed limits and other signage regulation, drawing up new facility signs and timetables for replacement for periodic maintenance. Most case handlers also have other tasks. Traffic signs involve many people, and case handlers have a lot of phone calls and other advice on different sign issues. Such enquiries are not numerically identifiable, but they form a good part of the daily contact and service provided by Vegvesenet against individuals and other bodies. Understandably, such non-registrable enquiries will break up the working day of the individual case handler. As a public body, the State Road Service is required to comply with the provisions of the Administrative Act and to deal properly with all cases received. This means being able to give reasoned answers. Responses may take time, in particular, in the case of a refusal, because one does not consider it sufficient to refer only to the rejection of the legislation. We regard it as good administrative practice at the same time to explain why the legislation is as it is.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1190	I thank you for the reply from the Minister for Transport. It is a fact that it is very difficult for many companies to set up instruction signs for their companies. If you want a sign to be sent to your place, you will often have a registration plate set up, or you will not be allowed to set up anything. First of all, this treatment takes a very long time, letters go back and forth. And often it ends with no. But this varies a little bit from state to state, I'll be so honest that I admit. Can the Council of State envisage changing its practice so that it becomes a little more uniform across the country and it becomes a little easier for businesses to set up guidance signs for their businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1197	As I mentioned in my main response, there are often strong feelings about signage and signage instructions. I don't think they have anything against going to a simplified procedure, but I assume that in the future it is also in the interest of the public and the public that they will receive reasoned and complementary answers to their enquiries. Road identification services for enterprises, etc. is in a special position. Arbitration decisions are not a single decision under the Administrative Act, and therefore they do not have ordinary legal remedies. However, because this is a distinction that often affects the interests of individuals or businesses, access to justice has been granted to the Road Directorate. As such signs are still free of charge for the applicant, in many cases the decision will be appealed against. A new assessment must then be carried out and, where appropriate, the matter must be prepared for the Directorate-General for Roads. This usually requires additional information and documentation collection because the case handlers of the Directorate-General of Road do not know the local circumstances. I must admit that then there may be a greater need for more annual works than a reduction in annual works.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1207	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘In ordinary Question Time on 17 November 1999, the Council of State said that the closure of the Brønnøysund-Oslo direct route is a decision of the But the ministry has already lifted the state aid. Indirectly, this is the department's responsibility. In order to have real competition for this route offer, the aerodrome must be at least 1330 metres. As of today, at its own aerodrome, the Swedish Aviation Agency has only approved 1,199 metres. What will the Council of State do to approve a sufficiently long runway so that Fokker 50 aeroplanes can be taken down?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1216	From 1 April 2000, the Brønnøysund-Oslo route will be open to traffic for all companies wishing to operate the route. This means that companies are free to choose the category of aircraft on the basis of traffic and the technical and operational frameworks in force at all times. On previous occasions, the Ministry has shown that a runway length of around 1200 metres can open up to several aircraft types and thus increase competition, compared to the concept of 1000 metres of runways previously outlined for regional airports after a technical and operational upgrade. Among other things: This background was the decision in 1998-99 to extend to 1200 metres for the airports of Brønnøysund and Florø, as the first two enlarged regional airports in Norway. The question of announcing 1319 metres of take-off distance at Brønnøysund Airport, which may be achieved by using the asphalted end-field at the beginning of the track, is now under consideration at the Swedish Aviation Agency. Let me add that the questioner includes in his question a premise that the grant to the Brønnøysund-Oslo route has already been cancelled. That's not the case. From 1 April next year there will be free competition on the Brønnøysund-Oslo route and vice versa, but until that date it will be flown according to the old concept.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1227	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am aware that the State aid will not be lifted until the new bidding round enters into force, but already when the tender papers were out, the condition was that FOT requirements for Brønnøysund-Oslo should be removed. It's okay to say that you put this on offer, and that there's free competition, but if you're going to talk about free competition, the airport has to be long enough to allow those companies that operate with planes that can compete with Onshore to land. And then the runway has to be close to 1,330 meters, that's the requirement of the companies. It must not be in the name of propriety that we are faced with the same situation as we had in Finnmark, that a company that may not even have flights will be the one that has the opportunity to fly Brønnøysund. When you're talking about competition between Andreoe and others, there's got to be companies that have planes that you can take down. And then the path has to be 1330 meters.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1238	No aircraft or air carrier is released on the runway network in Norway without having been approved by the Swedish Aviation Agency and by the aviation inspection or, as it will be called later, by the Air Safety Authority. This applies whether you fly in Finnmark, Helgeland or South Norway. The provisions are the same, all those included in the tendering procedure are followed up continuously, and they are checked that they meet the requirements of the department's en route. In the case of Brønnøysund, there were several operators on the track in the tendering context when the tender was last launched. I expect that some of these actors will still be involved and interested in a competitive context. The extension on Brønnøysund has just been made to allow more airlines and more aircraft types and, as the representative of Bastisen has mentioned on previous questions, makes use of the economically profitable route between Oslo and Brønnøysund.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1245	I thank the Council of State again for the answer, and I registered what he said in his previous reply, and also what he said now, that the track is being considered extended. I appreciate that. It's too little time to comment and say everything you want to say in such a short round. I believe that the Council of State is positive in its answer, but consider restoring the FOT requirements to the route between Brønnøysund and Oslo!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1252	I noticed the last part of Bastesen's question and comment. I'll take it with me. When I can't answer if FOT offers, as it's called, are relevant for the route between Brønnøysund and Oslo, it's because we haven't yet been tested on a commercial basis or have sufficient basis to say if demand is good enough to fly it commercially. I would like to follow developments closely at some of the airports that are now coming out without a tender. [[Statsrådet Værvoll]] Onionsøe has made the most aware that they want to fly Vadsø-Tromsø, Hammerfest-Tromsø and Stokmarknes-Bodø without a grant. Therefore, they are not included in tenders that will work from 1 April next year, and it is natural to see the Brønnøysund-Oslo route in the same context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1266	I will be asked the following questions to the Council of Transport States: ‘As an EEA member, Norway has harmonised very many rules with large parts of Europe. But in practice, it turns out that Norway still thinks it's best in class. A periodic driving time check carried out in Denmark is recognised here in the country by the authorities involved. Should Norway only approve EU legislation without complying with its content, or bottom up such events in the absence of an up-to-date work order?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1275	The EU rules on periodic vehicle checks define a minimum requirement for roadworthiness testing of vehicles. Each Member State may, in its national rules, require more extensive and more stringent controls for vehicles registered in each country. This is stated in an opinion of the European Commission of 25 May 1998 on the interpretation of EU Council Directive 96/96/EC. The aim of the EU Commission is to tighten up the technical condition of the vehicles. In the long term, this may lead to uniform national standards. To date, however, a majority of EU Member States do not want mutual recognition of vehicle checks. Norway and other Nordic countries do not currently have rules on the general mutual recognition of vehicle checks. However, the Norwegian regulation on periodic checks of vehicles opens so that, in exceptional cases, we can approve documented checks carried out by the approved inspection body in another EEA country. This may apply, for example: where a Norwegian registered vehicle is abroad for a very long period of time, so that the time limit for verification will be significantly exceeded. I can also mention that Norway has taken the initiative to review and assess the control system in the Nordic countries through the Nordic Road Technology Association. The review will show whether there are grounds for concluding agreements on the mutual recognition of vehicle checks within the Nordic region.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1286	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The reason I ask is a request I have received from a Norwegian girl who behaved in Denmark, where she took a few courses before a doctoral thesis. In that respect, it is not interesting what she did down there, but in any case: She sent her report on the controlled car and the vehicle card to the Statens vägvesen – she took control in Denmark since it was where she was at the time when the check was to be carried out. She was then informed that the control was not approved, and she was told to bring the matter to the Road Directorate. All of them first had cases with the Car Authority, so it has been within three different instances, and they don't actually have a single answer as to whether Norway has stricter rules than otherwise. So the question is, are quality assurance poorer in the other Nordic countries? And can the Council of State outline a horizon for how long it will take before one can get a response in relation to what the Council of State actually initiates instead?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1295	As far as time use is concerned, we are probably dependent on what the other Nordic countries are responding to this enquiry, and the initiative taken by Norway through the Nordic Road Technology Association. We have an interest in getting mutual recognition of vehicle checks in the Nordic region. With regard to the specific matter, I am not able to respond to it, naturally enough. However, the Norwegian regulation on periodic checks of vehicles opens, as I mentioned, so that in exceptional cases we can accept documented checks carried out by the approved inspection body in another EEA country, and that this applies when a Norwegian registered vehicle is abroad for a very long time, so that the deadline for verification will be exceeded. It could be that it would have made sense to contact home before carrying out the check, in order to hear the level of the verification requirement. But I hope that this case makes us move on quickly to get a Nordic solution.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1302	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I just want to tell you that this case is not unique. The car was for EU control after it returned to Norway, and there was still not a single defect in it. But what is kind of the essence of this clarification is: try to provide information so you can avoid this! For both myself and others, I have questions about why we are introducing EU rules so early that such problems must arise in a way when the other countries, which are EU members, do not follow them. We might get an interpretation problem in this context, and we might not be able to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1309	It could be very tempting to feel strongly about the mutual recognition by EU countries of each other’s demands in this area as in other areas of conflict and disagreement. I will not fall for that temptation, but only record that there are still no uniform requirements and rules and mutual recognition of each other's control in this area. We want to work to get a common Nordic solution, and hope it's not that far away. Otherwise, I agree that we use the term EU control or EEA control, and we should have a common basis to assume that. However, once again, there are minimum requirements, and the Norwegian authorities have therefore chosen to impose the requirements somewhat higher than has been done in other EU countries.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1319	I would like to ask the following questions to the State councillor Meltveit Kleppa: ‘There is no self-service pole in the border state of Eastfold. The wine monopoly A/S in Sarpsborg is to move to new premises in Storbyen in the new year. The management of the Vinmonopole A/S has replied that no more self-service authorisations can be granted due to the legislation. What can the Council of State do to give Østfold its first self-service pole, so that you can meet the competition from Sweden, which will open self-service coils in Stroemstad in the autumn of the new year, aimed specifically at Norwegian customers?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1328	I would like to refer to the management of the Action Plan for the reduction of the use of drugs in Stortinget last December and the wish of a majority on a self-denomination trial scheme in Vinmonopole A/S, at some outsals. The State Institute for Alcohol and Drug Research, SIFA, and the Board of Directors of the Vinmonopolet A/S, were commissioned to design the experiment, including: by setting up the number and the number of outlets to be included. For sale, the control outlet has also been set up with approximately the same volume of sales and customer structure, with which to compare the sales development during the trial period. The Management Board adopted a plan for a 14-outsald test scheme. I have joined that plan. The last test sample was opened this week. In accordance with the wishes of the Grand Duchy, the scheme is to be evaluated after two years and responsibility for the evaluation has been added to the SIFA. I do not share Mr. Stang's belief that self-preservation in the Vinmonopolet's local community solves the challenges of trade leakage to Sweden. To this end, I would like to refer to SIFA’s report ‘Norwegian border trade in alcohol’, Report No 1/99, which concludes that the difference in food prices is more important for border trade than alcoholic beverages. I would like to stress that there is now a well-planned trial project going on for a two-year period. When the evaluation by SIFA is carried out, I will come back to the case. Therefore, during the trial period, I do not intend to take the initiative to increase the number of test rooms in connection with the movement of the Vinmonopolet A/S in Sarpsborg, or to move or refurbish halls in other parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1337	I have to thank you for the answer. It's very disappointing, the answer that was given. You're more concerned with plans – as you had in previous Communist countries – and actually don't see the reality and the challenge you're facing when it comes to the question that I've been asking here. The places in Norway that have been so fortunate to be part of the experiment of self-service can refer to increased sales. While customers are obviously also satisfied with such schemes, the Minister of Social Affairs does not see any significant point in the fact that Østfold, a state where there are nearly 250,000 inhabitants, should have such an offer, because the plan does not approve such a scheme for Østfold. It's sad that you don't see the need to have such an offer to Polish customers, and that this is important to keep the clientele on which a monopoly is dependent, and from which the Social Minister in the national budget actually expects to get some income. I have to ask the question to the Social Minister: is this not to choose rigid and bureaucratic solutions rather than business and strategic ones?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1348	In this case, if it was a plan for the plan's debt, bureaucratic arrangements for the bureaucracy's debt, I could have given the representative Jørn Stang the right. But what's the point? The point is the dilemma of facilitating the hall of a legal product while at the same time having some thoughtful planning, some deviations from limiting the effects of alcohol. If there is anything that has been carefully assessed, it is the question of experimentation with a self-densified pole, based on a situation where the Swedish showed that in their attempts there was an increase in the salinity, and that one could also expect an increase in the amount of damage – hence a plan that is now being followed for two years.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1355	The answer from the Council of State is of double morals. There's no doubt about it. What I put into practice is actually a wish from a wine monopoly to move into new premises, which will have more predictable framework conditions, and which will be met with the attitude of waiting for an evaluation after two years. I do not believe that this is at the heart of the problem. In addition, you are not willing to see what happens across the borders of Sweden, which is only a few miles away, where it is added to a self-service pool, one of the largest in Sweden, which is only the coin of Norwegian customers. It must be in the interest of the Council of State to see what this will lead to, that Norwegian customer circles will move to Sweden and actually also spend money there, for the benefit of the Swedish Treasury and not the Norwegian.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1364	Eastfold states today have six halls: two in Fredrikstad, one in Moss, one in Sarpsborg, one in Halden, and one in Ashim. I am confident that the Vinmonopolet has evaluated both numbers and relationships related to the border trade, and I have chosen to follow the assessments made by the Vinmonopolet administration when they recommended the scheme that was chosen. But let me point out the following: We take the border trade seriously, because SIFA has been given an assignment that they will present the result of now in January. Sometimes I wonder whether the Progress Party takes the border trade seriously, as they point out, when they are not willing to discuss food prices, which too many seem to be the most important thing when it comes to trade in Sweden. Nor have I seen that they have suggested limits to the damage that alcohol has to do with our society.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1374	I have yet another question to the Governmental Council of Meltway Kleppa: ‘Treasures with a million surplus are supported by public funds. In the last two years, the Directorate of Drugs has granted more than 8 million. dollars in grants to accommodation establishments because they are non-alcoholic. The scheme is established on the initiative of the Bondevik Government. Is this the right way to spend taxpayers' money, to subsidise specific hotels using funds set aside for drug-prevention work?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1383	Alcohol consumption has increased in recent years. In order to counteract these developments, to limit the use and thus to reduce the harmful effects of alcohol, the Government attaches great importance to drug-prevention work. A wide range of active substances is required, including: various measures to promote drug-free lifestyles and the free environment. The provision of financial support for the establishment and further development of a drugfree environment is one of several key tools in the Government’s efforts. The scheme for non-alcoholic overnight stays, etc. was introduced in 1998 as a replacement for the State Fund for Alcohol-free accommodation and catering. The fund is now being wound up, following the management of the 1999 State budget by Stortinget. The aim of the new incentive scheme is to promote the establishment of a free recreational environment by providing investment incentives for the re-establishment and modernisation of non-alcoholic accommodation, catering and all-activity homes for young people. The Government hopes that this new incentive scheme will stimulate the creation of more than one such scheme. The size ratio was 4 million. DKr to the new takeover scheme in 1998. From 1999 onwards, funds to the takeover arrangements have been lifted. 610.70, now referred to as Recruitment to Barriers' Organisations, etc. Through the transfer of previous item 74 to cap. 610.70 in 1999 funds to the back-up schemes were allowed within a larger back-up of a total of DKK 56.6 million to finance several back-up schemes. Within the current guideline, the Directorate of Drugs may give priority to funds transferred to the post across the various agencies, and in 1999 the Directorate of Drugs has distributed nearly 4 million. kr of the rights of the post office, i.e. the same sum as was earmarked for the opening order in 1998. Thus, within the scope of the scheme, investment grants may be granted. sleeping places, so they have a serving place without a peg. There is room for innovation, but also for modernisation, to make a supply more attractive. There are no specific requirements for the searcher's economy, but the Directorate of Drugs assesses among others. whether the measure has operational and economic viability. In 1998, some established accommodations were provided for conversion and expansion, while cafes and all-activity houses were also provided with support from the scheme. In 1999, support for various environmental measures for young people is a priority in relation to beneficiaries, including young people. all-activity houses under municipal control. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health announces a review of drug prevention in the 2000 budgetproposal, including the role and function of the Directorate of Drugs. In this context, I would like to assess whether the use of feeders in this area is working as intended, with particular emphasis on the prevention effect.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1396	I thank the Council of State for the answer. We just confirmed what the public already knows, and I understand it so that the council will continue the arrangement. It's remarkable that the Drug Directorate in the last two years, and also the year we're in, has actually granted money to convert companies with millions of profits. Many of the hotels are owned by various Christian organisations — or they are well-known, popular coffee bars, which were also visited by the Council of State. It is to understand the social minister that she defends this way of spending taxpayers' money, because the intention is only to stimulate overnight stays and serving places that are free of charge. This is, in my opinion, a mistake. This type of 4 million allocation. kr this year cannot be defended either professionally or strategically. Unfortunately, the Minister for Social Affairs believes that this kind of low-critical use of money can also be defended for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1403	I feel the need to repeat the last part of my answer, where I went through the review I have seen in my department, which relates to the drug-prevention work. The intention of just looking at how we can get as much prevention as possible from the means at our disposal. It relates to the role and function of the Directorate of Drugs, and it relates to the use of different supplementary schemes. I would like the representative to pay particular attention to the fact that I want to assess whether the use of feeders in this area is working according to purpose, with particular emphasis on the prevention effect.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1410	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I noticed that she would look at what the consumption really is going to do. What one has to take into account in this context is that the non-alcoholic food serving sites themselves cannot explain what the money has been used for. There is clearly a need for follow-up here. With this scheme, it is clear that state support can go to the strangest things, which ordinary people respond to – rightly. Despite the fact that the hotels have a million-dollar surplus and despite the fact that there are no problems with filling the hotel beds, you choose to continue with support schemes for luxurious establishments in many respects. The Minister of Social Affairs therefore states that this is the best possible use of 4 million. kr – in the year – in the fight against drug abuse, and that there is no control over what the money is actually being spent on.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1421	The dialogue isn't always as good as the Storting Speech. I have not determined anything in addition to the fact that there is a need for a review of the preventive work – and that is what I am about to do. I've done well to make use of these 4 million. kr, which is part of the funds used for preventive work, is subject to review. I've also said in my first answer that there's already a turn here. In 1998, there was an earmark of 4 million. kr, and it was then said what this was going to do. In 1999, the scheme has become part of a major post, and from the Directorate’s side, there has been a turnaround towards more support for all-activity homes for young people.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1431	This question, from the representative of Torbjørn Andersen to the Minister for Health, will be answered by the Minister for Social Affairs, who will address it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1434	I will be asked the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs who addresses them: «A lung disease lives at the municipal institution Margarete Foundation in Arendal. [[82 years]] Because of her disease, she's dependent on using an oxygen bottle. To get out of the room she is dependent on a transportable oxygen bottle, but this she must pay for herself. This is expensive for her. If she had lived at home, she would have this covered by social security. What does the Council of State think about this injustice that has affected the patient, and will the Council of State immediately take the initiative to amend this legislation?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1443	Let me first do the right thing for legislation as it is today. The municipality is responsible for providing care and care to all those in the municipality who need it, both according to the municipal health and social services laws. Nursing and care can be provided in a nursing home, an old age home, or in other types of nursing homes throughout the day. The responsibility for the financing of technical assistance for people residing in such institutions is shared between the municipality and the population. The municipality is responsible for the assistance needed in connection with the treatment, training or care that such health institutions normally provide. The same applies to the means by which several occupants can benefit. Public funding is responsible for the financing of aid that is individually adapted. This applies to movement and communication aids. Communication aids include e.g.: vision, hearing and reading aids. Oxygen appliances are regarded as a treatment aid and therefore fall outside the scope of the financial responsibility of the public interest as designed by the legislation. According to the municipal health service law § 2-1 everyone has the right to the necessary health care in the municipality of the future cage or temporary residence. Mobile oxygen apparatus or other aids may be considered necessary for the client to receive ‘necessary health care’ after the municipality of Helselova. It must be decided upon following a specific assessment in the individual case. Anyone who thinks they have such a claim may submit an application to the municipality. In the event of a refusal, the decision may be appealed to the body chosen by the local authority. If the decision still goes against the complainant or the complaint is rejected, it may be complained to the county doctor. It is sufficient to bring such a case forward that the client believes that the condition ‘necessary health care’ is not met. The level of the municipality's commitment to providing the necessary health care depends on the economy of the individual municipality. It may, therefore, lead to discrimination. I want to evaluate the distribution of responsibilities in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1462	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I see as reasonably positive. This case is a matter that has received quite a lot of attention and has caused many people to become confused, not just down in the South, but across the country. How can it be possible for old and sick people who have been involved in building this country, which is today the richest of the world, to be confined and linked to an institution room simply because the public says that they can't afford to cost them a few thousand copies, for example. a breathing apparatus upon which they are completely dependent? It's actually a real scandal that we don't have a proper code to ensure that the weakest of the sick get a fair and equivalent offer from the public, regardless of whether a person lives in a rich or poor municipality here in the country. I am reasonably satisfied with the answer given by the Council of State, but I would like to ask: why does anyone always have to suffer and dare to stand up in the media before we are willing to change what is obvious injustice in the legislation of our country?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1471	I am pleased that this specific case as far as I have been informed is resolved, and that the lung disease that this is involved has got its apparatus. I am also glad that, fortunately, it is not that every time a matter is brought into the media, there are changes in this field. When it comes to the distribution of responsibilities between the population, municipalities and different user payment schemes, we have a public distribution from a publicly-appointed selection that has seen this. Their recommendations are in my department. They're hard to follow up, because there's a lot of difference of opinion here. But I will take this matter with me in the assessment work that is now to be carried out further. There's a need here for further clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1478	In my view, it is a big point that the weak local economy should not result in an unworthy or inadequate offer to old, sick and nursing people. I certainly believe – and I see it this way from the Council of State – that we fully agree that we must ensure a national standard on the offers to those who are sick, whether it is old or nurturing, which ensures an equivalent offer to everyone, so that those who live in poor municipalities do not receive a worse offer than those who live in a rich municipality. The fact that the lady we're talking about here, happens to be living in a municipality that's close to bankruptcy because of totally miserable local government, must not get her hit as an innocent third party. I am pleased that the Government has realised that the legislation might need to be amended in order to create more justice. The answer, however, was not quite clear. Can we expect legislation to be clearly amended in this area in order to remove the injustices that this case shows?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1485	I would like to stress that if a cage in a poor municipality or in a rich municipality, one has the right to necessary health care and care under the laws on community health services and social services. This is the case today, and so it should also be enforced. In addition, both regulations and guidelines have been issued, and there is a formal possibility of complaining in relation to them. So to the question, I've said, and I know that I want to evaluate today's division of responsibilities, because it's unclear. I also have to add that maybe I could perceive a renewed commitment from the Progress Party to secure the municipalities a better economy. In that case it will be a signal I accept with great joy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1497	This question, from Børge Brende to the Minister for Health, will be answered by the Minister for Social Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1500	I have the following questions for the Minister of Social Affairs, who will answer on behalf of the Minister of Health, who is not here today: ‘The South Trondheim County Medical Department, in a report, has revealed that the activities of the Trondheim Regional Hospital, medical department, are being carried out in a professionally irresponsible manner. The report shows constant over-coating of patients over several years, as well as a high risk of infection. This is not least affecting the legal certainty of patients, says the county doctor. Central health authorities push the county council in front of them without taking responsibility. Will the Council of State take a national responsibility for ensuring safe conditions at the country’s hospital, including the RIT?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1509	At the latest in the examination of the new law on the specialist health service in our particular Stortinget that the county municipality should continue to be responsible for the operation of the hospitals. It is therefore Sør-Trøndelag County that is responsible for the operation of the Regional Hospital in Trondheim. The State has overall responsibility for the hospital framework conditions. State authorities further supervise the provision of county health services in accordance with the requirements laid down by law, regulation or administrative action. A requirement for proper hospital operations may be derived, inter alia, from: Hospital Act § 18. As the State Supervisory Authority, the County Medical Board of the South Trøndelag has carried out a supervisory follow-up of the situation at the Regional Hospital of Trondheim, medical department, throughout 1999. On this basis, a report has been prepared on the conditions recently transmitted to the State Health Authority. The county doctor points out in the report a number of factors which, in the opinion of the county doctor, indicate that the operation at the department is not safe. It points to, among others: that the overcoating of the compartment poses a risk to infections that are above normal risk and that legal certainty for patients and personnel is threatened for the same reason. The latter is related, for example: the undisrupted dialogue between healthcare professionals and patients is not feasible. The county doctor also shows that the personnel situation at the department leads to an unacceptable risk of injury, error or ‘near defects’. The County Medical Court has sent the case to the State Health Inspectorate requesting that it be assessed to give an order to the county council to rectify the conditions under Section 18 of the Hospital Act and the Law on State Supervision of Health Services Section 5. The matter is being dealt with by the State Health Authority. Health supervision obtains a routine opinion on the plans of the county council for the correction of the identified deficiencies. The question of injunctions will then be addressed. I am aware that the Health Authority gives the matter a high priority. The Regional Hospital in Trondheim is one of several hospitals in the country that have for a long time been under heavy medical stress in the form of overcoatings and corridor Asians. This was revealed in the Health Inspectorate’s survey last year of the situation at the country’s hospital. A follow-up survey this year, which is about to close, indicates that the medical situation at the Regional Hospital in Tronheim has further worsened. I would like to stress that the Minister of Health will carefully study this report to assess whether any action should be taken. With regard to the economic situation of the hospital, the Government will take the initiative to review the hospital economy in general, including productivity development, the development of the county economy and possible causes of the hospital deficit. This will be done in consultation with the Hospital owners and the Municipal Councils. The government will return to the outcome of this review in the revised national budget in 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1528	This was an extremely unsatisfactory response — a disclaimer of responsibility from this government in the face of important health and social policy issues. Here we are talking about a medical department in one of our regional hospitals where the county doctor points out that there is a great risk of infection. So there's so much overcoating that it's about the legal certainty of the patients. And what does the Minister for Social Affairs say? Well, she wants to make these patients further into a caste ball between different levels of government. She says the Government should come back to this kind of issue in the revised national budget – i.e. in almost one year’s time, these patients will get a proper response to their situation. The point is that the Minister of Health and the Government in its draft budget cut the State subsidy to regional hospitals. It was cut because it was not price adjusted. Will the Minister of Social Affairs and the Government consider price adjustment of this grant to regional hospitals on the basis of the latest information?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1537	Let me first inform you that the Government of the 1999 budget and the 2000 budget have strengthened the state funding for hospitals. Let me point out that I am waiting for the representative Børge Burnde to also think that there must be a certain order in relation to a health monitoring report and the follow-up to it, the review that has been announced by the county councils' economy, and that cooperation as one that should have with the KS and others involved, among other things. the scientific health and economic environment. Then there is a need for some time. The Community financial proposal or the revised budget is not long to be dealt with. But of course, there's an arcrus eye on developments when the Health Authority has said what they've said.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1542	It is almost as if the Social Minister has taken over the crisis at our four regional hospitals. The directors have presented material to show that patients are not receiving adequate treatment. Then she says that the government has increased the appropriations for health and social services. The point is that the grant to regional hospitals was not priced this year either. It's not price adjusted since 1995, and it represents a cut of over 300 million. kr. I want the Minister of Social Affairs' explicit answer as to whether she also fully supports the cuts made in relation to regional hospitals. And does the government actually believe that although it is now revealed that many patients do not receive proper treatment, will you still stand by it cut and not come back with any additional appropriations to the hospitals until the revised national budget? I think this is incredible in relation to the vulnerable groups. In fact, I had been waiting for more from at least the Minister of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1549	The Social Minister is behind the budget put forward. The Minister of Social Affairs is also aware that the Storting has increased the risk of regional hospitals through his treatment. It did not seem that the representative Børge Brende has moved in. Then, in my answer, I showed that the County Health Agency has sent this matter to the State Health Authority, and that the State Health Authority is now collecting a question and looking at how they can follow up their part of this. At the same time, the Minister of Health, together with the hospital owners and KS, will launch a review that will both evaluate the new intervention-driven funding system in relation to key health policy issues and analyse the causes of the deficit in many hospitals. So maybe I could hope that the Right also stands up to strengthen the community economy. That would also help.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1566	This question has been postponed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1572	This question, from the representative Einar Olav Skogholt to the Minister for Health, will be answered by the Minister for Social Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1575	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘We have registered a number of breaches of the ban on the sale of tobacco to children under 18 years of age. What sanctions will the Council of State impose?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1584	It is important that tobacco-related harm legislation is complied with in practice. Unfortunately, it is a fact that children under the age of 18 have too easily had the opportunity to buy tobacco products. Studies conducted by the Norwegian Cancer Association and the State Tobacco Injury Council have clearly shown this. On this basis, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has asked the Tobacco Damage Council to cooperate with the industry in order to improve compliance with the age limit. On previous questions in Stortinget’s Question Time, on 13 January of this year, the Minister for Health replied, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘What I have seen as the most important strategy when we have documented such an unacceptable practice is to confront the industry and industry’s own organisations with these embarrassing facts. And we have done that.The next move has been to challenge them as to what they will do as responsible actors in this area to comply with Norwegian law. They're going to answer that in this month. I choose to take the communication we've had to now, seriously, because it's been positive, and I'll deal with the feedback games that the industry is giving, before I suggest any changes to the policies and regulations that the Storting has adopted. But it is clear that if this does not work, the issue of an authorisation scheme for tobacco may be considered relevant." The cooperation of the State Tobacco Injury Council with the industry has since been said, among other things. signs which show that the law prohibits the sale of tobacco products to persons under 18 years of age and in which the purchaser asks for a licence if he or she is under 23 years of age, can now be found in the tobacco outlets. The industry has also invested in information within industry actors. The State Tobacco Injury Board first asked for feedback at the turn of the year 1999/2000 on the industry's experience with the new signs. National strategy plan for tobacco harm prevention 1999-2003 — freedom to smoke — a right presented by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health in September now clearly states that tobacco harm prevention is aimed at stepping up efforts to follow up legislation and legislation adopted in this area. As regards, in particular, the follow-up to the age limit for tobacco sales, the strategy plan states: «The use of periodic penalty payments as a penalty for infringement of the provisions on the age limit for the sale of tobacco products will be assessed.» And on the other hand, ‘It will also be considered to establish an authorisation scheme for the sale of tobacco products.’ Once measures from the industry have worked for some time, they will be evaluated. When this evaluation is available, I will consider possible penalties in the form of periodic penalty payments or authorisation arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1608	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. It is important to have a dialogue with the industry and to give the industry the opportunity to take seriously the ban on the sale of tobacco to children under 18 years of age. I have also registered signs in the tobacco outlets. It is regrettable that the industry does not comply with this. Studies in several places in the country show that unfortunately children under the age of 18 get tobacco – much more than I thought. Too many smoke in Norway. We have a huge challenge to meet the WHO target of limiting the proportion of smokers to 20 pst. of the adult population. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State opens up the possibility of possible penalties in the form of periodic penalty payments or authorisation arrangements. The Council of State replies show that this will be assessed when the measures taken by the industry have been effective for some time. When will the evaluation be carried out and when can the Council of State apply any sanctions as early as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1617	I would first like to commend the representative Skogholt for his involvement in this field, which I believe is a very important preventive work, also seen in relation to costs associated with health damage. During this year, a number of measures have been taken by industry to improve compliance with the 18-year age limit. These voluntary measures should be taken for a period of time before any action is taken and more stringent requirements are set. An evaluation of the measures should therefore take place by the end of 2000 or early 2001. If the evaluation shows that compliance with the measures is still too poor, measures such as periodic penalty payments or authorisation schemes will be assessed. What measures you think most likely to take is too soon to say something about it. It must be assessed more closely in the light of the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1624	We're going back to question 7.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1630	This question, from the representative Børge Brende to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, has been transferred to the Minister for Environmental Protection as the appropriate representative. The question will be answered by the Minister for Development and Human Rights on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1633	I am pleased that at least the Minister for Development is in the country and can answer the question: ‘The public, through, inter alia, the SND, has lost more than 30 million. SEK of the debt cancellation after six months of operation at Scanbio Lysøysund AS. The factory was to take food waste and recycle it for animal feed, but produced only a few samples before the millions were used up. The company, which was supposed to solve an environmental problem with brand-new technology, has been running without an emission permit all the time. Does the SND government council believe that the project has been quality assured well enough before the loan commitment was given?»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1642	The company Scanbio Lysøysund AS, originally Bjugn Industrier, is a subsidiary of Scanbio ASA. Since its inception in 1984, this company has been involved in the recycling of organic waste from the fishing industry. In 1994, the company started work on plans to expand its activities to include the recovery of food waste from private households, large households and the food industry for the production of feed for domestic animals. The plans included: starting from the fact that the pollution authorities had notified that the landfilling of such waste would be prohibited. It is this activity, related to the recovery of food waste, that has received public support. In the summer of 1996, the Ministry of the Environment granted 9 million grants to the company. kr over the cap of the State budget. 1442 Item 70, aid for recovery operations and, subsequently, a further 1.25 million. kr over the same item. At the same time, the Ministry of the Environment provided an environmental guarantee of 17.9 million. kr over the cap of the State budget. 1442 heading 73. The environmental guarantee scheme existed from 1991 to 1996 in the Ministry of the Environment's budget. The SND was the operator of the scheme and conducted the project assessment, cancellation and follow-up according to the same criteria as for the other SND schemes. It was the Ministry of the Environment that granted or rejected the applications for guarantee on the recommendation of the SND, while the SND issued the guarantees. In the case of Scanbio Lysøysund there was a comprehensive suspension and recommendation from SND to the Ministry of the Environment. The SND setting was built for example: on the opinions of the State pollution authority and the State Agricultural Authority, both of which were positive to the project. The reception of food waste from private households was planned to be an essential part of the income base of the enterprise. However, in November 1996, the Agricultural Inspectorate issued a ban on the use of waste food from private households, including: because of the risk of toxins in the feed. The plant was opened in September 1998. However, the company had to go to the lay-off of the employees in January this year, and voluntary debt negotiations were opened in February. The guarantee was paid by 15.5 million. kr. The residual guarantee of 2.4 million. kr is at the top of the table. The State grants have been lost. The question refers to the fact that the company operated without an emission permit. It must be stressed that it is the responsibility of each company to obtain the necessary official permits. Private creditors as well as government grantors or lenders must be able to assume that companies themselves provide for this. Otherwise, I have been informed that the company has based itself on a previous emission permit that was linked to the premises they acquired from a former virgin oil factory. However, the company has now applied for its own emissions permit. After my assessment, SND has done a satisfactory job in the quality assurance of the project as a basis for the assessments of the Ministry of the Environment in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1659	The council had a good review of the history, but when she concluded that there was a satisfactory procedure on the part of the SND, I slipped a little in the chair. I don't think the premise that the Council of State put first in its post, really hinted at it. Because what's this about? Well, you're going to make a herring oil factory into a place where you're going to drive the recycling of food waste for animal feed. But it was also known in advance that there were major concerns about converting food waste from households to animal feed, among other things. because of the risk of contamination. Should it not have called an alarm clock at the SND and the Ministry of Environmental Protection when they saw that the entire project was based on something that had not actually been authorised, and for which there was no possibility at that time to grant approval?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1664	I think it's important to separate two things here. One is the emissions permit and the usual procedures associated with the issue of an emission permit. The second is whether satisfactory quality assurance has been carried out in respect of applications submitted to the company by various public authorities. As far as the permit is concerned, normal procedures have been followed. It is standard both in Norway and internationally that it is up to the individual company to apply for an emission permit, but it goes without saying that under this there is a clear premise that this will be done, that state pollution control can and will ensure that it is done, and that it will have serious consequences if no necessary emission permit has been obtained. It's actually up to the individual enterprise. I think it is important to distinguish between the two issues, and this is also the usual international procedure for issuing emission permits. With regard to the assessments of the professional basis, I would like to point out that it is not always such that one knows how the situation of a company will develop, even if one has received a satisfactory assessment in advance. I think it must also be included in this assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1673	The state has put another $30 million. kr in this project. They had not applied for an emission permit in advance, and had been denied such an application, they had 30 million. kr has been misinvested. But leave it, and let's go to the quality assurance. When collecting food waste from half the country and using the food waste for animal feed, it has not been examined beforehand whether this food waste can be used as animal feed and it is estimated that 30 million. The government's money, and the Council of State is not willing to say that this is an unfortunate quality assurance on the part of the SND, must my question to the Council of State be: When are you willing to put your foot down and say that this is not proper?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1680	With regard to the quality assurance of the project, to which I will now link my comments, I would like to point out that it was a very comprehensive recommendation and recommendation that was made by the SND to the Ministry of the Environment, which was based on the opinions of the State pollution authorities and the State Agricultural Inspectorate. Both were positive about the project and have thoroughly reviewed the case documents. However, I think there is one important element to include, and that is that the decision to grant aid came in the summer of 1996, and a few months later – in November – there was a ban on the use of food waste in feed. In the meantime, we had an international discussion on the cow disease and the use of food waste in feed, and it helped to ensure that the ban came in the same year. It also contributes to disrupting the financial basis of the project. I also think that this element is part of the assessment of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1690	I have the following questions for the Minister: ‘Vietnam now experiences the worst flood of 75 years. Between 70 and 80 pst. of central Vietnam has been hit. 900 000 have become homeless. Many are dead and missing. Access to food and medicine is difficult because its infrastructure is damaged. Poor Vietnam has minimal resources to deal with the disaster. What will the Government contribute to the emergency in Vietnam?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1699	Central parts of Vietnam were hit by a violent rainstorm on 1 and 4 November 1999. This rainstorm provoked the largest flood the country has experienced in many years. The flood has affected more than 1 million people. ==References== 600 have died, 41,000 houses have disappeared, while more than 600 000 dwellings have been destroyed. The river has also hit the infrastructure in the area. The Vietnamese authorities reacted rapidly to the disaster and military personnel and equipment were deployed in cooperation with the Vietnamese Red Cross to establish an emergency bridge of emergency supplies from military stocks to the disaster area. Norway already contributed with help on 9 November. Then it was approx. NOK 320 000 granted to Vietnam through the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, OCHA, which is the United Nations Coordination Emergency Unit. These Norwegian funds were used for logistical support functions for the distribution of emergency aid. In addition, Norway has provided 1.5 million. NOK to the Church's Emergency Aid. These funds are intended to be used for the purchase and distribution of rice, medical supplies, distribution of carpets, mosquito nets and household materials, small-scale financial support to families who have lost some of their own, assistance to cover transport costs and distribution of emergency goods and the reconstruction of infrastructure. The assistance will be provided by Nordic Assistance to Vietnam, NAV, in close cooperation with local authorities. NAV is a consortium consisting of the Church's Emergency Aid, Diakonia in Sweden and Folkekirken's Emergency Aid in Denmark. NAV is currently engaged in development work among the poorest in Vietnam and has worked for a long time in the areas affected by the disaster.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1712	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I would like to start by saying that I have received the information I have from a professional trustee who was involved in a cooperation project with the Vietnam trade union movement, and who has seen with his own eyes what happened. In retrospect, the descriptions have just become even more dramatic. I thank you for the answer, and I think it is good that Norway has already done something. The question is whether this is sufficient. It's very hard to know, and it's important to follow the situation closely. Now most of the damage is probably recorded in terms of the number of deaths, injuries and homeless persons. We also know that hospitals are not working. It's very much that doesn't work. The food stores are gone, the crops are broken, etc. Repair costs are also huge. I would like to ask whether the Council of State will consider the cancellation of debt as a possible instrument in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1723	When it comes to the cancellation of debt, we in Norway will place great emphasis on the assessment of the debt situation of Vietnam by international financial institutions. We now have a strong international follow-up of what is called the HIPC initiative, Heavy Indebted Poor Countries, in relation to the World Bank, the IMF, bilateral donors and all international debt-related actors. It is through these assessments that we will get a better overview of whether there is a basis for Vietnam to enter into a debt cancellation and debt cancellation arrangement. As for the situation in Vietnam, we will of course follow it very closely from the Norwegian side. I would also mention that earlier this year we have also paid out funds for emergency training for natural disasters to the Vietnamese Red Cross, and that NORAD has given 17 million. kr to Vietnam, and we will finance the current year in total projects in the country for approx. 48 million. kr. Here, too, it is possible to engage in dialogue with the Vietnamese authorities on any change in priorities in relation to acute needs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1730	Once again, I thank the Council of State for its positive willingness to try to understand and do something about the problems in Vietnam as well. The debt plan against the year 2000 mentions the HIPC scheme in relation to Vietnam. I would like to ask the Council of State what it has come to, because one should consider introducing that scheme to Vietnam. It is also an objective after they have obtained such a solution that the conditions for unilateral cancellation of Norwegian bilateral claims will also be assessed. I wish the Council of State would comment on that, too.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1739	It is quite correct that Vietnam is covered by the Norwegian debt plan. The reason why I referred to this international HIPC framework is that the mechanics of our plan are such that once a country has come up for what is called HIPC treatment, Norway will be able to give up the residual debt unilaterally – of course after a case-by-case assessment – so that it becomes 100 pst. debt cancellation from the Norwegian side. What has happened in the World Bank now in September is that a large number of countries can join the HIPC scheme in the past – a total of 36 countries. Norway has played a very active role in this work and has been a driving force for it. It's clear that Vietnam will be able to come under this scheme. But what unfortunately is not yet fully in place is the financing of the total new package of HIPC. In the absence of sufficient funding, it may go further in a number of countries, including Vietnam. However, we are working from the Norwegian side to get the G7 countries in particular to get up with sufficient funds. Of course, Vietnam's affairs will be heavy inside, like several other poor and badly hit countries in terms of debt.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1750	This question, from the representative of Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Development and Human Rights on behalf of the Minister for Environmental Protection.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1753	I would like to ask the Minister for Development and Human Rights, who answers on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, a question: ‘The import of sheep and lamb has so far increased by 74 pst this year. This, of course, is due to the herds of predators in the sheep flock and thus less interest in sheep farming. Does the Council of State agree that this is due to the predatory policy that the majority of politicians want, or does the Council of State see another solution to the lack of interest in sheep farming?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1762	It is correct, as the representative Bredvold says, that the import of sheep and lamb meat will increase from approx. 150 tonnes last year to approx. 275 tonnes per year. The last figure is taken from the forecast sample for meat in September. This increase in imports is related to the WTO Agreement, where we undertake to reduce the rate of duty on an increasing quantity of sheepmeat. In addition, we have an old agreement with Iceland from 1969 on imports of 600 tons of sheep and lambs. In the years in which there is a deficit in the Norwegian market, we are importing, while this year we are paying out the import obligations with pressure in the market. In 1998, we did not import from Iceland, while in 1999 we will import 100 tonnes from Iceland. Imports of sheep and lambs account for only 1 pst in 1999. of the Norwegian market. The forecast for Norwegian sheep and lamb production shows an increase of 2 pst in 1999. Compared with 1998 — an increase in production. So there's more sheep and lambs grazing this year than last year. It is therefore not possible to conclude from this material that there is a minor interest in sheep farming. Previous material also shows that it is not such that more sheep use is systematically laid down in predatory areas than in the rest of the country. Active efforts are being made to reduce the conflicts between the major predators and the buff and tamre industries. It is clear that in local areas predatory game causes serious damage to individual flocks in a way that cannot be accepted. The government therefore emphasises a differentiated use of instruments in the management of wild game, which includes, among other things, the use of wild game. the killing of predatory game and the development of preventive measures.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1778	I thank you for your answer. It wasn't quite according to the answer I expected to get, but I think maybe the Council of State and I live in two different worlds. I live in District Norway, where part of the population has, among other things, buff and sheep either as the main jaw or at least a bee-saw. With that income, they have the opportunity to continue living there by receiving a total income that they can live on. I have, of course, read the numbers to which the Council refers. I have a different number when it comes to importing sheep meat – 341 tons. But whether it's the government's number or my number that's right, this represents a lot of animals. There's also another number that shows that there are 20,000 fewer breeding animals on sheep than it was before, so a real decline has probably been.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1787	I believe that the representative Bredvold understands that I will not be able to confirm the figure of 20,000 sheep above the table in relation to the statistics we have. In that case, we have to get the sources and cross-check them. But anyway, the forecast for Norwegian sheep and lamb production shows an increase of 2 pst. in 1999 compared with 1998. Of course, the increase could have been larger, but it's an increase. I would point out that there is no basis for saying that there is now a very difficult and critical situation that leads to the closure and reduction of production, as if a production shows an increase, not least over a period or over a year, where there have actually been predatory conflicts, where the media interest and the media coverage of this has been extensive, and where we know that the industry has worn out. Nevertheless, there is an increase in production. But I would like to stress what I said in my first answer, namely that it is the government's clear aim to mitigate the conflicts we find between predators and animal feeding, and that we place great emphasis on a differentiated predator management that can ensure this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1796	I thank the Council of State for the second answer, which I thought was better, especially that the Government will go in to dampen the conflict between buffalo and predators. There are conflicts, and the fact that conflicts depend to a large extent on where you live in the country is also true. The fact that there are a lot of feelings inside the picture is certain, so I hope the government will take note that buffs are the main trick for some and an important side income for others, which is important in order for District Norway to continue to exist.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1801	I can confirm that the representative will experience a follow-up in this area by the Government. At the same time, I would like to stress that it is important for everyone to add the goodwill to resolve the conflicts we have. The government has to do its job, but the industry has to do its job. We have to recognise that in this situation there is no solution for anyone, and therefore everyone has to try to contribute to a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1809	This question, from the representative of Torbjørn Andersen to the Minister for the Environment, will also be answered by the Minister for Development and Human Rights on behalf of the Minister for Environmental Protection.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1812	I will be asked the following questions to the Minister for Development and Human Rights, who answers on behalf of the Minister for the Environment: ‘In Sandviga on Hisøy in Arendal, a totally chaotic building is wanted by the Riksantikvaren. This creates great despair in the owner, who wants to tear and rebuild the site. The building appears in such a completely wretched constitution that the decision on rescue based on a purely constructional state assessment seems completely incomprehensible. Will the Council of State ensure that the Ministry carries out an inspection of the property in order to assess for itself the actual constitution of the building in question?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1821	The Riksantikvaren took a decision on the conservation of the property Sandvigsveien 165 on 28 October 1999. The decision was appealed by the owner. The Riksantikvaren now prepares the matter for the Ministry in the usual way and in accordance with the provisions of the Administrative Act. I therefore do not think it appropriate to comment on the specific issues related to the case, as the case does not exist for formal proceedings in the department. The question of inspection will be considered as part of the ministry's review procedure. Freedom is an instrument for highlighting and ensuring in particular some selected objects with high antiquarian value. The rescue objects are selected on the basis of an overall assessment based on scientifically sound criteria, such as cultural historical value and architectural value. The technical state of the building is not decisive in this respect. This means further professional support and guidance for future carnage work, and it will be possible to apply for funds allocated to the State budget for peaceful buildings and installations. These are general observations and are not particularly related to the case in question, which is with the Riksantik product for treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1830	I thank the Council of State for the answer. This was a question that it could have been enough to answer yes or no. So the Riksantikvaren wanted to be at peace with a private owner, a collapsing building against the owner's own wishes. The municipality of Arendal has previously granted a demolition permit, and the county council is opposed to the building being protected. Still, the Riksantikvar is very hard on to make this building more comfortable. The owner, as stated by the Council of State, has, therefore, in his despair appealed to the Ministry for the Riksantikvaren's decision to bring about peace with a legitimate wish – of course – to have a completely meaningless peace decision, in my view. As regards the preparation of a case by a single decision, it is for the administrative act of the appeal body to ensure that the case is as well informed as possible before a decision is taken. Therefore, it is my clear view that an on-the-spot inspection should be carried out, in order to have precisely the information to which the Administrative Act refers when dealing with the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1839	With regard to the direct question, I would like to refer to what I originally said, namely that inspection will of course be considered as part of the ministry's complaint procedure. But let me just link a few comments to the general one. In a number of cases conservation decisions have been taken in the case of buildings with poor maintenance and technical standards. Experience has shown that although these buildings have in the past been considered to be of little value, it may have been found in retrospect that the rescue decision has had a very positive effect. Rehabilitation of these buildings often leads to awareness of local history and site identity. This is also something that the Storting has helped to determine, through e.g. the treatment of St.meld. No 58 for 1996-97. We'll wait for the Riksantikvaren to assess the matter, and then make an assessment of it in accordance with normal procedures. One of the facts that might be heard here is that the building was temporarily peaced in the County Committee as well. So there's been a treatment in advance here, also locally, when it comes to assessing the building.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1848	Of course, there's hope in hanging strings, but when the department will consider taking a walk down and looking at this building, it's not good enough for me. As a professional with a 20-year practice in independent craftsmanship in the construction industry, I am completely incomprehensible to the amateur assessments of the state of these buildings by the Riksantikvaren. During my time in the field, I have built many and many buildings in the South, and I have repaired many old buildings, but I have never seen a worse starting point for rehabilitating an old building than the one we are talking about here. So the primary thing is that those who are going to deal with the duck in the department in this matter should look at it built themselves in order to form an opinion on the condition. What's in the reports isn't good enough. I wanted a clear answer that they would come and look at this built.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1855	I need to say that it is a very strong claim that the Riksantikvaren makes amateur assessments. I think that should actually be in line with a professional assessment. And then I would like to stress that the state is not what the Riksantikvarn believes, the Riksantikvarn assesses the cultural memory criteria that will underpin the peace decision. It is probably not the building technical issues that determine, even though I recognise the representative’s competence in this way, but other assessments that underpin the Riksantikvaret’s peace decision. There is a point for the Riksantikvarn that this building is actually building archaeologically very interesting, and that there are traces of decoration paint from the baroque in one of the rooms, under the floor table against the cellar, etc. etc. But this is the Riksantik product that is now treating. We're going to get back to this case in the Ministry of the Environment, and we'll see if there's an inspection or not.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1875	This question falls away. So we go back to 10,11 and 12.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1883	This question, from the representative of Ingvald Godal to the Minister of Justice, will be answered by the Minister of Labour and Administration on behalf of the Minister of Justice. The question will be raised by the representative Kari Lise Holmberg.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1886	I allow myself to address the following questions on behalf of the representative of Ingvald Godal: ‘For a long time, forest camps in Vrådal and Fyresdal have given good atonement options where they put physical work into fresh air to the best of both body and mind in relation to more closed atonement. The clays are well integrated into the community and must be very cheap in relation to other forms. What will the State Council do to secure the future of this reconciliation and these camps?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1895	It is true that forest legends under Skien and Arendal circuit prisons have been part of the settlement options for many years. The core of the scheme has been that on request prisoners have been able to relinquish relatively short sentences in open camps while carrying out different types of forest cultivation work for local forest owners. For some groups of prisoners, obvious forest work has been seen as a good and meaningful way to execute the sentence. This is indicated, inter alia, by: through low failure rate. However, there is no research that says anything about whether such compensation is better or worse in relation to continued crime and relapse. In recent years, it has been difficult to find prisoners who have wanted such a solution, and there has therefore been a low level of capacity utilisation and, therefore, a low level of resource efficiency. Therefore, the ski camp has been temporarily stopped for a period of time. This has led the Department to start an assessment of the future of forest publishers. A broad collection of views has been carried out from the relevant bodies, such as municipalities and forest owners, and from its own bodies. There have been many views and assessments, partly related to local jobs, partly to industrial reasons and partly to criminal matters. These views will form part of the decision-making basis when the Ministry in these days takes a decision on the future of forest loans.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1908	I thank you for the answer, which did not contain so much new compared to the previous argument. I noticed, however, that the matter is about to be resolved quickly, and I think that is important in relation to the uncertainty that this case has created. I want to go a little bit more into one thing that I think is central to this. In fact, even in meeting the department, there was no need for a forest camp in the Skien circuit prison, and they didn't have the kind of inmates who could make up for themselves in such an open section. The reason for the deforestation of the forest camps has been that the Skien circuit prison has not had enough prisoners for open shelter, and it appears that today’s inmates will not zone anywhere other than in a new, modern circuit prison where they have their own rooms with bathroom and television with multiple channels. Then I am interested in asking: Does the Council of State believe that the choice of open spaces for the benefit of more convenient places is one of the most important arguments? I think the answer to the Council of State was very much of a wish.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1917	I can confirm that a quick decision will be made in this case. A hearing has been held and a number of elements have been taken into account for the evaluation which the Ministry is now due to carry out. I want to mention some of the criteria that are applied, and that do not go in such a direction as the representative here suggests. For example, if the implementation of short-term zone geographically far from the communities to which the prisoners are to be released is favourable, does the forest work give the prisoners a labour skills relevant to the future labour market, will the forest delays need additional resources to continue, are the long-distance transports from the parent institutions efficient resource use, can this group of short-term zones obtain a relevant open-ended settlement within other types of accommodation, and how does the balance of settlement options in the regions created in the near future? These are just some of the questions that the Ministry has as a background for its decision on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1924	Brief to a wish before the final decision is taken. We're talking about rehabilitation and repatriation to society, and we know what it means for a human being to be able to do a job in fresh air and healthy surroundings. I hope this will be emphasised in the further decision-making process. It should be not just about what each individual wants, but about having a reasonable attitude about how to zone.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1931	I have a great deal of understanding of that desire, and of the need for rehabilitation and repatriation to society and that one can zone in an open environment. Now I'm not the Minister of Justice. But I will bring back the representative’s request that a reasonable decision be taken on the matter, which I am sure will be made.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1941	This question, from the representative of Rune E. Kristiansen to the Minister for Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Administration on behalf of the Minister for Church, Education and Research.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1944	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Council of State: ‘In the Day Revy 22 November 1999 it was known that the weak and the blind do not have a school book offer as provided for in the Training Act. When will the Council of State ensure that this happens?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1953	Every year in Norway, four or five blind children are born using bitmaps in school, and four or five faint children are born who both learn bitmaps and use magnifying reading equipment. These students are entitled to a training offer equivalent to that of other students. According to Sections 5 to 9 of the Training Act, the State will apply for the development of textbooks and other special education tools. The National Educational Centre coordinates the development of special pedagogical educational tools for primary and secondary education. Even if the number of blind and faint elephants is small, there were 221 orders for new productions in the course of the school year. The development and production environment, the centre of expertise Huseby and Tambartun, unfortunately did not manage to follow up the delivery of the bitmaps in time, as one had foreseen. Elevar has therefore waited several months for some books. This is very sorry, and not as it should be. There are several reasons for delivery problems. The introduction rate for the primary school reform has given you new books for three class steps at the same time each of the last two years. The bitmap correction can only be done after the book has been created by the publisher. A normal printed textbook for visible elephants is 8-14 permes in italics, and it may take up to three months to make such books. This has created a huge work pressure. In addition, we do not have enough people with the necessary visual and literary skills. In particular, the basic school requires a high level of educational organization of the drug, most of which is in the field of mathematics and natural sciences, and generally when it comes to illustrations. Many resources also contribute to the development of parallel editions, and one has three objectives to consider: book goals, novelism, and Sami. As soon as the orders for the current year are dispatched, the production of the textbooks begins for the next school year. Tambartune has a list of 74 books for the 2000/2001 school year and has informed that work on production will continue from January to August 2000. After the information I have today, there is reason to expect that for the next school year we will be up-to-date and not experience a similar situation as this year. However, I have taken the initiative of a meeting with the National Educational Centre and the Board of State Special Educational Competence Centres next week, where we will discuss closer status and further work in this area in particular. My intention is, of course, to do what I can to ensure that blind and severely low-minded people are able to adapt their curriculum to the lettering in a timely manner, that is. at the same time as other elephants. I otherwise learn that before Christmas I will send out on a general hearing proposal for the right to training for blind and severely impaired elephants in a letter of credit, in accordance with previous decisions in Stortinget. In the legislative proposal itself, I will come back to the issue of consequences in terms of literacy training, the educational and competence situation and economic follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1966	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I understand from the answer that here the department is now in full employment with regard to the problem, and that it is expected to find a satisfactory solution – at least everything must be clear for the school year 2000/2001. I also see the Council's response as having the effect that the Department is taking this matter very seriously. My supplementary question then depends on what the department did when it was discovered that the offer was not there, i.e. that it was too late. This is an issue that affects many people, and as far as I have been informed, many students have put far beyond the educational offer they should have had. The question is: what was the department doing when it became known that such an offer would not be available?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1975	It is true that the department has taken a serious stand on the matter and is in full employment. And it is serious that these students have not received the necessary offer. In general, I can tell you if what happens when the students are left without an offer of books, that there are several things that can then be done. What is usually done is that students are given a preliminary edition, without proofreading and tactile illustrations. The second thing to do is that the student can get parts of the preliminary edition without proofreading and tactile illustrations, or the student gets an offer of alternative existing teaching in the subject, i.e. in a different way. So there are alternatives even though of course it won't feel good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1985	This question, from Inga Balstad to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Administration on behalf of the Minister for Church, Education and Research.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1988	I will ask the following questions to the Council of State: «As a consequence of St.meld. No The competence development programme for pedagogical-psychological services and school leaders, Call, shall be launched. [[1997-98]] School leaders and the PP service are the programme's target groups. To ensure that all leaders working with children have the same understanding of the system-wide work it is planned to do in the first phase of the programme, more school leaders see it as natural that kindergarten managers should be included in the primary target group. Will the Council consider extending the target group in line with this?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e1997	In connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 23 for 1997-98, the Stortingen decided to build up the supply by most government centres of competence and to move more of the resources and competences closer to the users, to the local PP service. A total of 300 new options are added to the PP service. At the same time, a three-year nationwide and practical competence development programme for adding to PP services and schoolleaders is being implemented. The programme, called the Association, is starting out too fully in the new year 2000. The Programme shall contribute to enhancing the competence of schools and PP services in response to the challenges of providing appropriate training at all stages of primary and further training. It will focus specifically on reading and writing problems, socio-emotional problems and complex learning difficulties. The content of the application aims to help turn the work in schools and PP services against more system and user-oriented work profiles and to see the development of competences in the PP service in conjunction with the development of competences for teachers. The program is divided into different phases. Adding to the PP service will take part in the entire program, while schoolleaders will follow the phases of system-wide work and local development. As a general principle, I see it as impractical to extend the target group to child care managers, for both professional, practical and economic reasons. We're basically talking about a competence development program for the PP service, and the principals are focusing on meeting important challenges in school. For this reason, the PP service and the principal schoolleaders are targeted, with a total of about 6,000 people. The programme shall be a practical competence development programme. Local development work will therefore form an important part of the programme, helping to translate knowledge from the programme into practical action in everyday life, thus involving more actors than PP candidates and schoolleaders. Here it's also relevant, and preferably, to drag in e.g. pediatric supervisors. The Memorandum’s thematic plan underlines the importance of cooperation between schools and other institutions to create an inclusive training environment. In this context, kindergarten is referred to as a central partner. I would like to encourage municipalities to work widely and cross-sectorally when planning and implementing local development work as part of the Association processes. Local development projects should also allow for the inclusion and involvement of teachers and staff in kindergartens in the programme, which should be used to further develop broad local competences when it comes to strengthening efforts for children and young people with a need for specific follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e2010	I thank the Council of State for the answer. However, although this is a prerequisite for municipalities and county councils to see this development programme in the context of their local development work and to involve the professional groups they themselves want, it is, after all, the State Education Office that is responsible for drawing up national plans – together with central professional communities, municipalities and county municipalities. It is therefore based on a centrally organised programme, and therefore other groups dealing with these issues should also be included as primary target groups. Prevention of learning difficulties and social and emotional difficulties should start already in pre-school age. The PP service is also responsible for this age group, and I also believe that health care and child protection are perhaps professional groups that should have been involved. Children's researcher Per Olav Tiller once said that everyone working with children should have a common knowledge base before starting their specialization, to avoid misunderstandings and professional struggles. I also believe that the same is true of this programme. By providing as much as possible a common starting point, there is far better chance of getting a good result. Does the Council of State agree that common knowledge and thus common understanding are the best basis for achieving a good outcome, when more than one professional community needs to work together to achieve the objective?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e2021	Yes, I agree with what the representative says that common professional understanding and cooperation will be very important in the work on children and youth also within this programme. Therefore, it is important that we also draw a line down towards the local environments, so that with local initiatives, child care managers and others may also be involved in parts of the programme. But it is now that the PP service has been a weak part of the response chain until now, and we want to prioritise this part of the service very high. Therefore, it is precisely the part that is the primary target of the entire programme. Today there are about 6,300 kindergartens in the country. If kindergarten managers were also to be included as primary target groups, they would involve an additional 6,300 people in the Joint Action Programme itself. It is neither practical nor economically possible per. the date of issue.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e2028	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I might see the financial constraints, but not quite the practical ones. However, this is a positive step that I hope will prove to be of better service to those who need to have adapted training. In the future, I still hope that one thinks far more completely before one initiates such programs. One must be open to cross-ministerial cooperation, because in municipalities and county municipalities several departments must work together to prevent and help those who need closer follow-up. Social and emotional problems, which turn out to be strongly increasing, are far from being a challenge only for school and PP services.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e2033	I fully agree with the representative that thinking completely across departments and across municipalities is very important in this area, and I will at least promise to bring these views back to the Minister of Church, Education and Research.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e2038	We go to question 29.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e2044	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Labour and Administration: ‘As known above 9 pst. Among those in working age, unretired, and there is evidence that this figure will continue to increase. It seems difficult for disabled people to get work in normal Norwegian businesses. At the same time, there is evidence that inadequate assistance is provided for the establishment of own employment and that disability pensions are recommended instead. What will the Council of State do to improve the opportunities for those job-seekers who wish to set up their own jobs?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e2053	77 pst. of the registered persons with a working disability participated in labour market measures in 1998. 50 pst. of the registered persons with disabilities who had completed their reintegration in 1998, switched to active solutions. This was in line with the objective of this year. However, I see, like Mr Arnesen, that efforts can be stepped up in terms of the framework condition for the establishment of self-employment of workers with disabilities. Therefore, the Government signaled St.meld. No 8 for 1998-99, on the action plan for the disabled, that good project ideas were to be assessed. I can tell you that I currently have an amendment that will make it easier for disabled people to create their own jobs. The proposal to amend the regulation on reimbursements during the setting-up of own activities has been consulted. These include: proposed lifting the requirement that the applicant must have received a grant from the county council in order to be entitled to reintroduction fees during establishment. At the same time, it is proposed to be eligible for reintroduction aid during establishment. I would like to stress that it will be easier for people with disabilities to set up their own jobs as part of the individual's recruitment process. I am going to take a final position on the changes to the regulation quite quickly. It will then enter into force as soon as practicable.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e2066	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is that for some people disability pension is the only solution, but very many of today's disability pensioners would like to have work if the work can be adapted to their situation. Having a job has a lot to do for quality of life, self-esteem and a private economy. I often experience hearing that people who want to create their own jobs are being sent on a tour from office to office, and the result is often a refusal, or an assistance that is not sufficient in relation to the need. Then my question is: does the Council of State think that greater efforts and more flexible procedures in this area could reduce the number of insured persons and thus provide a better economy both for them as individuals and for society as a whole?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e2075	I agree with the representative on the importance of having work, although, as the representative also says, perhaps not everyone ends up doing it. Nevertheless, it should not be that you should go from office to office until you feel that you are being helped. The regulation is such that when a person first comes to the working budget, re-employment will be assessed and, if appropriate, tested. And at least from my point of view, I have a certainty that this is happening. When it comes to making things smoother, I agree, and we can never be good enough. It's about flexibility, but it's probably also about making arrangements for even more. I would like to refer to the Cohesion Communication, where, after all, some new measures are being put in place for disabled people in order to get them to work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e2084	In relation to what I said earlier, I would like to say that the Stortinget has discussed several times the issue of increased professional participation among the disabled. These include: called for the co-location of social offices, social security offices and employment offices to facilitate the processing of applications and to make this more flexible. Where does this matter stand today?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e2089	To the very last question of the co-location of social security offices, employment offices and social services: This is part of the public service offices, as the Government has called them, which we want all municipalities to start on their own initiative – personally I am well aware of it from my own municipality – where different departments meet users as a first line service, where you can get prompt treatment, and get the simplest services directly in the same office, which may also be open at times other than normal working hours – Saturdays or maybe one afternoon a week. All State and local authorities shall join forces and seek to establish such offices. I have taken the initiative to also point out to the departments and departments that they are to show willingness to participate, to participate in such coordination. We're doing great.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e2096	That being the case, it is no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-01.ana.ud1913e2105	There is no record.
