ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e33	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e38	I suggest Marit Nybakk.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e43	Marit Nybakk is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Marit Nybakk is unanimously elected president of the current meeting. The representative, Siv Jensen, will make a private bill.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e48	On behalf of the biggest representatives Gerd Flatset, Øyvind Waksdal, Terje Knudsen, Thore Aksel Nistad and myself, I would like to put forward proposals to amend Section 10 of the Cultural Memory Act so that the State bears the costs of specific scrutiny before the implementation of measures.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e53	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e65	We now have a position from the Financial Committee on changes in tax law, and there are a total of six amendments proposed in the motion for a resolution and in the vote. The Committee is unanimous in its amendments on all points, but I would like to comment on point 5, amendments to the Law on VAT compensation for municipalities and county councils when purchasing certain services from registered traders. The Committee is also unanimous on this point, but we have comments there that are slightly different. From the Labour Party we will state that this is only a technical follow-up in order to improve the legal text in line with the previous Stortingen decision, cf. Inner. S. No 3 for 1996-97. I just want to clarify it, because you're now working on regulations. We would also like to make it clear that there should not be an extensive extension of the compensation scheme on our part, because it could lead to new distortions of competition. We have clarified this in our note from the Workers' Party and SV. I would also like to say that in the regulations it has to be clarified that what we are putting into it is that the decisions that have been taken, what is part of the municipality's mandatory plans – it can be the development of different types of housing for auxiliary workers, kindergartens, etc. – must be able to trigger VAT compensation in the same way as that applicable to e.g. a foundation established for similar purposes. That's just the clarification we're going to make here, and that's why I've linked this comment to our comment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e76	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 26]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e90	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given to the exchange of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and after the submissions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e101	Globalization is perhaps the most prominent feature of the society we live in. Borders are wiped out, people, products and information are moved quickly, and opportunities to exploit new markets are great. This concerns business. And here it's a political responsibility to give Norwegian business framework conditions that make them want to be in Norway and get opportunities here at home. Unfortunately, it is not just legal activities that are globalised. Criminal activities move much faster than heavy-duty enterprises, and organised criminal environments seek out areas where they have good framework conditions. Our responsibility as legislators is to ensure that they do not have such framework conditions in Norway, but that, on the contrary, we are able to effectively combat crime even when it comes to complex and organised criminal activities. Last year, Kripos published the report ‘CRIMINALITY AND THREAT ASSESSMENT 1998’. The report describes the development of international organised crime in Norway, and it is thought-provoking reading. To reflect on memory, I think it said something like these criminal environments are looking for countries with an open policy and a naïve population. It is our responsibility to create a law that does not place Norway under such a characteristic. Some have claimed that the new police methods are unnecessary and come as a result of easily frightened politicians. Others believe that we are far from going far enough in adapting the law to the crime reality we live in. After reading Kripos' report and carrying out meetings and visits to the country's political chambers and prisons, the Judicial Committee is of the opinion that the new law is necessary. This is also confirmed by the meetings we have had with representatives of the international community, such as Interpol and Europol or the FBI. It is only through cross-border cooperation both in practice and through lawmaking that we can fight serious crime effectively. The impression is further exacerbated by the work being done in the United Nations in the autumn and which has been observed by several large-scale representatives. The United Nations Legal Committee is working on this autumn, among others. with common international instruments against terrorism and terrorist financing. In the UN debates, both in plenary and in committees, there were very many who promoted organised crime and drugs as one of the most important barriers to development in poor countries. U-help is no longer just traditional emergency help. On the other hand, institution building, help to make good laws, good courts and independent police and help to combat criminal organisations that undermine them, some of the most important things we and other countries can do. As I see it, modernising police methods in Norway is just a very small part of the great and important work going on internationally to secure the daily lives of most people. Most of the countries we can compare with go much further in providing effective investigation methods to the police than the Storting will do today. We set much stricter criteria for the use of exceptional investigation methods than almost any other country, because fundamental legal certainty is at the core of the Norwegian population, and that is good. We're not going so far into adopting new police methods as many would have liked, we're going some careful steps and we're going to keep up to date if developments show that this is necessary after we've gained experience with the rules we're now adopting. For me personally, it is more important that the entire Judicial Committee stands united on the changes we are now adopting, except for a few points relating to POT and the security of the state, than that we go one step further, with greater disunity and disunity in the political environment. The last step that we are not taking today is for example: Roma snooping, with which good experience has been established and gained in Denmark. We await the situation and reserve the right to take this debate later, when and if necessary. I have not chosen to frame all the details of the setting in this dossier. It can be read from the actual settings. On the other hand, I would like to stress the international aspect of what we are doing, as well as the fact that the new methods of investigation are just one of several answers to how we, as legislators, address the challenges of today's crime scene. The Methodology Act forms an integral part of the law on the withdrawal of dividends from criminal activities, which was adopted in the spring. We have adopted new investigation rules for weapons to allow the police to prevent violence and use of weapons in the streets, and we are going to deal with a new police law that reorganises the police around the turn of the year, among other things. linked to a new police directorate. We have added more resources to the police and courts to improve the efficiency of the criminal chain, we have adopted the Schengen law on increased police cooperation in Europe, and on 1 December we get the result of the consultation round on anonymous witnesses. All these measures play together, and I would like to congratulate both the Minister of Justice and the National Attorney to play very well with the Justice Committee in the formulation of the new policy. Most of the legislative and budgetary measures I mention have been adopted in the last six months or the year, and this will hopefully provide a basis for better results in the fight against crime in the years to come. An important challenge we have ahead of us is the commitment to the implementation of the measures adopted. It is important that the lawyer follows up with the prosecution authority, as he is already doing very well. Furthermore, it is important for the Minister of Justice to follow up the results and needs of all the police districts of the country. It has to end that everyone owes everyone. We need to increase our goodwill towards each other, increase our willingness to shoulder responsibility and to cooperate. Well-organised criminal activities cannot meet with poorly organised law enforcement. I also want to touch some of the details in the setting. The methodology committee considered that the exceptional police methods could be used for criminal acts with a penalty framework of up to six years. The recommendation from the Government and the Judicial Committee is ten years old. This means that we raise the threshold for the use of the new police methods, while at the same time opening up crimes such as killing, serious sexual crimes, gross bodily damage, rancid fraud, money counterfeiting, illegal detention and bodily damage resulting in death or significant damage, are within the scope of application. We are expanding the area considerably, and we are asking the Ministry to carefully consider whether other serious crimes should be granted an exception in the future, such as for drugs, in particular alcohol smuggling and the distribution of child pornography. We also open the way for surplus information to be used as evidence in criminal matters. It is limited to matters that could provide an independent basis for telephone control. It is also the positive side that surplus information should be used to prevent the punishing of innocents and to prevent the crime of such a serious nature that the crime can lead to a penalty for freedom. We also affect the EMK. With regard to space listening, which we are not in favour of today, I am pleased that the Minister of Justice in the proposition he has made clearly states that space listening does not differ from telephone listening in nature, but in degree, and that space listening in such a way does not conflict with Article 8 of the ECHR on privacy. We know that Roma snooping has given positive results in Denmark, not least in resolving serious MC crime, and it suggests that we have an opportunity to review Roma snooping again later if it should prove necessary. We also have the theme of provocation. The Committee is aware that the Supreme Court, through the Scrik case, concluded that provocation was a legal practice in Norway. The Committee states that it agrees with the extended interpretation of the Supreme Court as regards the use of provocation and mentions in particular the use of provocation in the fight against child pornography. It makes no sense for private actors such as Redd Barna e.l. may use provocation to detect very serious child abuse, while the police have felt that they have not been able to use the same methods. It is therefore gratifying that the Riksadvokat’s new guidelines on the use of provocation can now be taken into account, with broad support in a comprehensive justice policy. Even in the case of anonymous witnesses, the Committee’s setting is part of that theme, despite the fact that there is no explicit specific treatment. Last fall, the Stortinget Government ordered him to investigate issues relating to anonymous witnesses, and it is a pleasure that the Minister of Justice has done so, that he has sent a draft hearing, and that the outcome of the hearing will come on 1 December, so that in the future we can ensure that there are witnesses when major, important lawsuits stand at the door with a background in very serious organized crime. So I want to touch the relationship with the listening of the GSM mobile phones. I think we have to be able to say that a loss was made a few years ago when we created the GSM network and started using GSM mobile phones without simultaneously opening up for listening. This means that an additional cost is incurred today when we have to fix this. The Committee clearly states that there must be means to make this change, so that GSM telephones can be intercepted, and it is gratifying to note that the Minister of Justice is taking us to the floor and saying that these means will be provided, and that the work is in progress. Finally, a few words about European human rights. In the debate on the new police methods, it has often been argued that these are in conflict with the EMC. It is therefore gratifying that the Department of Proposition has used quite a lot of space to discuss this issue. I also noticed that in the hearing with the Association of Lawyers, they also gave tribute to the work that had just been done in discussing human rights. An overall committee is pleased that the Department notes that all the proposals we are considering today fall within the scope of the provisions of the EMK and that there are two important considerations to be balanced at the same time. On the one hand, it is possible to take care of and propose the necessary measures to combat serious organised crime and, at the same time, to identify instruments that ensure adequate legal certainty. With these words, I will first address the proposals of the Committee and then the proposals of the minority made by the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e145	The representative Kristin Krohn Devold has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e150	The chairperson of the Judicial Committee and the rapporteur of the case stressed that it was essentially a unanimous committee position. The these are relatively small. There is further reason to stress that this also means that the Judicial Committee has essentially concluded up on the proposition made by the Government. What is my challenge in relation to the post that was made goes more directly to the Right-Representative Kristin Krohn Devold, because in the Right has had a debate on these issues, including, as far as I remember, at the country meeting last spring. After what I mean to remember, there was a pretty big minority in the Right that went against, among other things. space listening, while with Kristin Krohn Devold's strong commitment being fought through a decision in which a clear majority in the Right advocated space listening. I would therefore like to challenge Kristin Krohn Devold in relation to the question of why today the Right does not follow up both its program and its national meeting decision to go in for space listening. The second question: in the Ministry, substantial emphasis is placed on evaluating these issues after a few years — two, three or four years. When you listen to Kristin Krohn Devold, it sounds as if this evaluation alone is aimed at assessing whether enlargements of the various police methods should be relevant. I would like to ask questions as to whether the evaluation should also include assessing whether there may have been too much progress in some areas or whether there may be modifications that should be made.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e159	I'll do the last question first. As regards the evaluation of the methods adopted here, it is clear that an evaluation will also provide opportunities to take a step back if some of the methods have been found completely redundant. It's in the cards. But I have enough, not least on the basis of the experience that has been gained in other countries, a kind of basic feeling that there is a much greater likelihood that the need will come across the other way, but we can leave that to the evaluation to clarify. So to the first question, which went to the Right National Meeting Decision relating to space listening. To that, there are two things to say: First, right-space listening wasn't at the last national meeting, but at the last, before the last big shot, so it's stuck. And it obligates the Right to take up the question of space listening during this great period, and we're going to do that. But in this round we have chosen not to do it, because here we are going quite a lot of other steps forward as we think it was important to do it now. If we then have opportunities to secure majority space listening during this period by waiting a little bit, right is more concerned with results than with demonstration, and then we take advantage of the opportunity to deal with that matter when it's wisest in time within this magnification period. In conclusion, I must say that it is not right that there was a very large minority at the Høre national meeting who disagreed with the Right majority in this matter. The resolution on, inter alia, These police methods were adopted by the Right National Meeting against 12 votes, and it is, although the Right is not as large as it once was, not a very large minority in my party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e168	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e171	The Labour Party is pleased that Odelstinget is today updating and expanding police investigation methods in the fight against serious crime. There is little doubt that the development of crime has been given greater impetus to the organisation and professionalism and increased levels of internationalisation. We look at it in areas such as drug trafficking, alcohol trafficking, prostitution, money laundering and more recent forms of data crime, just to mention some areas. Technical progress has led to a lack of police traditional investigation in many contexts. When we have used the concept of telephone control to date in the legal context, it in itself underlines the need for updating. At the same time, better investigation methods should be ensured by the police as effective means of detecting and resolving the serious and professionally organised crime. I would like to highlight two important points in the review of the position of the Judicial Committee: firstly, that the position of the Judicial Committee is unanimous on most points and is based on the recommendations of the Ministry, and secondly, that the Ministry states that all the proposals are within the framework of the European Convention on Human Rights incorporated into Norwegian legislation this year. In particular, there are two main considerations to be weighed against each other on the issue of extended powers in relation to new and exceptional investigation methods: effective measures to combat serious organised crime and, on the one hand, legal certainty and data protection. This is an important balancing exercise, in which I believe that the recommendations of the Department and the recommendations of the Committee do well to address these two main points, where it is assessed in the light of the seriousness of the action, the effectiveness of the method, the strength of the suspicion and whether there is a possible criminal or third party likely to be affected. Privacy must not be a categorical obstacle to the detection and investigation of serious criminal acts. Crime is both a threat to society and a tragedy to individuals. We must take into account that the effective fight against crime strengthens legal certainty and privacy for the victims. I do not feel the need for a detailed review of the legislative changes which, hopefully, will result from today's deliberations, but I refer primarily to the Committee's position and also to the review of the case rapporteur. However, I would like to give the reasons for the majority of those points which the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights shares. One concerns the question of how long a permit for the control of communications may last. Here, the Labour Party and the majority believe that the general rule should be allowed for four weeks at a time, but that the deadline may be up to eight weeks at a time in matters of national security. The right hand party and the Progress Party consider that this should not be a lengthy period in the latter type of case. However, the majority consider that an authorisation of eight weeks prior to a review by the court should also be satisfactory in matters relating to the security of the State. With the studies and treatment of the Lund Commission in mind, the majority consider that there is a need for clear rules in this area. The second point concerns whether surplus information from communication control can be used for administrative purposes. Here, the Labour Party and the majority believe that it should not be allowed, while the minority will make an exception in security clearance matters. The majority assume that surplus information for this purpose cannot be stored, and the minority also agree. But then a lot of the purpose also disappears, and you'll get the impression of randomness. Moreover, such information is often uncertain. I refer here to information in the proposition in connection with St.meld. No 39 for 1992-93, which states that only well-documented factual information should be disclosed in the context of personal checks. Surplus information from e.g. The nature of telephone checks will rarely be such. So some comments where there's unanimity. The working party agrees that one does not go for room listening in this round beyond today’s emergency facilities in specific cases. Space listening is a particularly intrusive investigation method which would affect more than others third parties. However, we believe that a no to space listening should not now cut off the possibility of a subsequent assessment if crime trends, experience from other countries, for example. Denmark, and the experience with the new methods, should provide this. The proposition discusses various questions about witnesses. Let me focus on two ratios here. In the context of a recent case in the media relating to a personal source of police, I would like to stress what is stated in the Riksadvokat's guidelines, that the imposition of criminal offences such as the payment of information should not take place. We also meet the Department's investigation and proposals on the use of anonymous witnesses. It is a fact that threats to potential witnesses are a growing problem in a number of cases and prevent diplomacy that is a central part of a functioning justice system. I mentioned at the outset that there has been a greater degree of organisation and internationalisation of crime. Criminals, and in particular organised activities, cooperate and are active across borders. This cannot be handled by the police separately at national level. Our answer must be increased international police cooperation. And I am pleased that a unanimous Justice Department confirms the political will for such cooperation linked to Europol. It is positive that the Government wants a third country agreement with the EU in this area. But such a position by the Government was far behind. The Labour Party and the majority here in the Chamber had to push this matter forward on the agenda of the spring and, fortunately, with a correct conclusion from the Government. I am reminded that members of in particular one centre party stated that seeking access to Europol was both a waste of time and resources and a threat to privacy and legal certainty. It was actually less than a year ago. But now I'm going to let it lie down and say I'm happy for the consensus that has emerged in the position of the Justice Committee. The important thing now is that we agree on the importance of strengthening and expanding international police cooperation based on national interests. Norway should have a good starting point for combating crime. We have a lower level than most countries. But we are facing new challenges in the field of crime development – crime is more organised, more professional and more international. Hopefully, Odelstinget will be able to give some of the answers to how we can meet this development today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e206	No one has asked for the word in reply.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e209	If this debate and these proposals had been discussed not too many years ago, there would have been enough lines for the previous speeches and certainly for everyone else as well. It would probably be full in the gallery and at least in the press room, and it would be a relatively heated atmosphere. It's not that many years ago – I remember – that we had a heated debate just about whether surplus information from telephone interception could be used to start a new investigation. But now there is a unanimous vote by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights with proposals that go far beyond this. The proposals and voting are well presented by the rapporteur, and not so many additional comments are needed. I would like to stress that when there will be an extension of access to telephone interception today, changes to the rules on surplus information and access to secret searches and seizures, it is not due to a particularly strong action by a new Minister of Justice in the fight against organised crime, as has been said. This is because the proposals have been in the Methodology Committee and government offices for so long that they have become overripe. The methodology selection presented its very thorough position in 1997. The Judicial Committee called for a follow-up from the Department, which eventually — and at random immediately after the appointment of a new Minister of Justice — presented a position in which the least controversial proposals from the Methodology Committee were followed up. It is to a great extent commendable when the Minister of Justice comes from a party that we are used to from past times to prioritizing something different. However, the significant increase in recorded crime in recent years, the brutalisation of criminal environments and the increased internationalisation have gradually made these proposals uncontroversial and necessary to re-establish some of the premise that criminal environments have already received in relation to the police. At the same time, we should not forget the back of the medal. The new research methods may affect innocent people and reduce privacy. Clearer legislation is needed to prevent abuses and attacks of legal certainty and privacy. We know that in Norway we have a mix of police and prosecution authorities that are unwarranted for legal certainty. And we know that the police don't always follow the law of criminal proceedings that they are obliged to follow. Good control and judicial decision-making are needed when new investigation methods are being released to the police. So some comments on some of the proposals: For without Sweden, Norway is today the only country in Western Europe that has no access to intercepting telephones for those who are suspected of wanting to call. The Ministry does not propose such an extension of the telephone interception. I agree. Such an extension would increase the number of people who would be affected by telephone interception, strongly and guaranteed to intercept conversations between totally innocent people. There will be too much interference in privacy. Today, the surveillance police may be allowed to intercept telephones for periods of up to one year at a time. The Ministry proposes to reduce this period to a maximum of eight weeks. It's a radical change in the negative direction, which is also pointed out by the surveillance police. International terrorist organisations often operate with so-called resting terror cells, persons who are in readiness for years and who can then be suddenly activated when the need is present. In such cases, telephone checks will be needed for a longer period of time. It would be unfortunate if authorisation should be applied for as often as the Ministry proposes, at the risk that the court will say no, justified on the grounds that the suspected terrorist has not behaved suspiciously in recent months. It is also important, for the purpose of the police's work, that surplus information from telephone interception can be used for decisions on the clearance and authorisation of persons to work with security-cleared material. This could prevent unreliable people from handling important classified materials. That is the reason for the second proposal, on which the Right and the Progressive Party stand alone. The Ministry has not proposed to open access to space listening. The Committee has, however, unanimously asked the Ministry to consider space interception if the evolution of crime so warrants. It's a useful and joyful signal. There is no doubt in the experience of the rest of the world that space listening will lead to more cases being resolved by the police. In addition, space listening will provide safer and better research results, which could prevent innocents from being targeted or accused, and prevent the murder of the judiciary. Therefore, space listening is important in order to enhance legal certainty, while space listening will reduce privacy. The Ministry proposes deferred notification by search and seizure. It is also called secret search and secret seizure. But we might as well be honest and called the method of legalized burglary and legalized theft, because it's actually about giving the police access to break into a private home or a private office, where the police can bring valuables. Since it is not so rare to find that suspects are innocent, so that no appeal is brought against them, it is clear that such access could be very unpleasant to many of those who may be affected. It is therefore important that the Committee makes it clear that these instruments should only be used if they are essential for resolving the matter, and that clarification will otherwise be significantly made more difficult. It is to be hoped that the courts which are to take the decisions will note these views of the Judicial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e229	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e232	I will first express that I think that the representative Simonsen made a nuanced contribution, and will express joy over it. In the post, the representative Simonsen also commented on the debate on these questions, and several of the reflections he made valid there, I can share. It is a bit alarming that this is a debate that is taking place with as little commitment as is the case – also in view of the public interest that appears to show it, among other things. in the absence of representation from the press. But it was the question of the relationship between the proposition and the method selection setting that was my main point for taking a line. The representative Simonsen mentioned that there has been a long time since the Methodology Committee presented its position and that it has been in the department for a long time. The fact that a matter is long in a department may be referred to in several ways. From what Simonsen's representative said, it seemed as if flimsy could be a nearby characteristic, but it may also be an expression of a thorough handling of a matter. It is clear to me that the Ministry has just done a very thorough examination of this matter, and that the proposition that has been promoted is not a presentation of the methodology committee's position, but the Government's and Ministry's proposition based on a thorough consultation and careful consideration of just these issues. My question is therefore: isn't this part of the background because we have just had a calmer debate on these questions than we could have otherwise easily had? Finally, the Progress Party always tends to play a role in these debates where they will have more of everything. I might ask you to hear some of the background because you do not have that tone on this matter from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e245	‘More of all’ need not necessarily mean freer rules for police and prosecution authorities. It may also mean greater legal certainty and a good level of privacy. So there's questions about what you want more of. I think we want more of both, and that the result we've come up with now, in that way is very balanced. It was not my intention to criticize the department in my introduction. I'm actually of the opinion that the department hasn't shown inflexibility. They have brought this matter forward within a reasonable period of time, I would say. I think that is a unanimous position in the committee. And they've certainly done a thorough job, they've skipped the message and gone directly to a proposition to get the matter up to a result faster. I also have the impression that there has been a consensus in the committee that there has been a good procedure, so it has not been my intention to criticise the ministry's work on this matter. My point has been that in all the years that have gone by since work was started on the method committee's position and until today this matter can be discussed in Stortinget, there has been a development in organized crime to the worse. It has in this period made proposals that were controversial when work was started, today when work is finished, are no longer controversial, because all political parties have had to deal with the new, and unfortunately less positive, reality we have today, than we had when work was started. This has led to the fact that this matter can be discussed today in peace and quiet, in all friendship and full agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e254	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e257	I have the impression that there is a great deal of understanding and acceptance in the Norwegian community that the police need advanced tools to investigate and solve crimes. In the pursuit of criminals, only the best methods are good enough, and we also need a police force that can get the criminals into the bargain. But at the same time, we have to guard ourselves to get in the situation that the purpose is to sanctify the medium. Our legal community shall not be a police state where every citizen can always be traced or seen because there may be some arbitrary or family connection between a law-abiding citizen and a person in the police searchlight. Therefore, the legal society takes care of the law-abiding by protecting privacy and limiting the exercise of investigation methods. Therefore, it is not free for the investigators to do what they themselves think is most appropriate; it must be done within the limits set by the Stortinge. Therefore, it is important for the Storting to place individuals in the overall perspective created by the development of technologies and social structures when we re-assess, change and set the framework for research methods. The Christian People's Party is pleased to note that the vote on all the essential points unanimously supports the content of the Government's proposal. We believe that this will improve the investigation methods in the fight against serious crime and strengthen the anti-terrorism legislation. Telephone control has been practised on the basis of the Telephone Control Act of 1915 and the Criminal Procedure Act of Chapter 16(a). Based on the experience gained in Sweden and Denmark, the practice of telephoning should be extended here as well. It is clear that the extension of the scope of telephone interception is not contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. There may, of course, be a problem in the way in which the law is to make limitations in the permit for use and when it is not at all necessary to make use of listening. In the Christian People's Party, we agree to base the penal framework as a criterion of delimitation, and we believe it is right to maintain the exemption from the requirement of a criminal framework in the case of drug offences. We also believe that in terms of the security of the state. The fact that the wording and the meaning are reinforced on the grounds of suspicion of activity or actions against the security of the state, we believe that a natural follow-up of general attitudes in time. The change from ‘by reason’ to ‘by reason’ imposes somewhat more stringent requirements on investigators, while at the same time strengthening the legal protection of individuals. That we, together with the Workers' Party and the Center Party, form a majority to reduce the maximum time limit to eight weeks in listening cases about the security of the State, we do not see any dramatic interference in the freedom of investigation. It just means that more often you have to be responsible for what you are actually doing and what progress the case has. The second point where the Committee separates layers, but where the central parties together with the Workers' Party form the majority supporting the Government's proposal is about the use of so-called surplus information from telephone checks. All the lots agree that surplus information from telephone checks can be used as evidence in criminal matters, but on one condition: that the case itself would qualify for telephone checks. There is also reason to stress that everyone makes exceptions with regard to the use of surplus information resulting from conversations with people in professions where the obligation of professional secrecy is of vital importance. Doctor, lawyer and pastor are mentioned in particular. When we in the Christian People's Party oppose the use of surplus information in security clearances, it is because the information does not have to be objective at all. The possibilities for both incorrect information and misinterpretation are present, and the information is not suitable for use in personal checks. Safety clearance is very important for the person concerned and therefore the basis on which the decisions are made must be as far as possible correct. The last topic I want to mention, is secret technical listening, in everyday speech called space listening. It is a strength for the opinion that the Committee is united in relation to the issue. When, in the Christian People's Party, we are for the time being restrained from entering for space interception, that is because of the degree of intervention this entails. Since we are in favour of telephone interception under certain conditions, we have accepted the secret interception principle. However, we consider the step from telephone interception to space interception that is so large that we are currently holding something back. But we see positive experiences from Denmark, and we have a certain feeling that the issue of Roma listening could be put on the agenda again if not too long. In the meantime, we ask the Ministry to assess the method if the development of crime and the experience gained through new methods so warrant.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e274	It was stated earlier in the debate that there was a lack of commitment to a matter as important as the one we are discussing here today. But believe me when I say that Norwegian criminal policy is not what it has been. Because after hearing Mr. Jan Simonsen's excellent contributions, where he also allowed himself to praise the Ministry of Justice for the work done, I do not recognize my colleague for six years in the Committee on Justice. Today, when we are dealing with this important issue, we also set the finishing line for a long-lasting demand by the police and ordinary people for instruments to improve the methods of investigation in the fight against serious crime and strengthen the anti-terrorist legislation. It is from different environments, often from different points of view, that it is reflected in the sprawling perception of recent crime trends and the need for new research methods. I agree with the Methodology Committee's description of the evolution of crime, which concludes that there has been a significant increase in registered crime. At least as important is taking into account the fact that crime has changed character. Among other things, there has been a serious and brutal crime of violence in special environments. The environment is more closed and professional and is characterised by increased internationalisation. Technological developments also make traditional methods of investigation more frequent than before perceived as insufficient. There is reason to commend the Ministry of Justice for a thorough and solid work on Ot.prp. No Sixty-four. I am also convinced that the Committee has felt reasonably confident that the Ministry has dealt in a balanced manner with the objections raised to the Committee's position. It has, among other things, has led in some cases to a different conclusion from the sample to the weighing of the different considerations. Furthermore, it is worth noting that the Ministry has often proposed stricter conditions for the use of the different methods than the Methodological Committee has agreed. In the proposal, the Government proposes – and broadly endorses a unanimous justice policy – that the police be given more effective methods in the fight against organised crime, among other things. an enhanced access to telephone interception and testing by means of technical tracking. It also opens up access to secret searches, seizures and extradition orders. The Government has also obtained the agreement of the Committee that, in designing the new methods, one has been committed to ensuring legal certainty and privacy. With regard to the proposal of the Methodological Committee to open up space listening, the Committee shares the view of the Ministry that space listening is an intrusive research method and, in particular, is space listening in private homes. Rome snooping can be an effective tool against serious crime and lead to the police clearing up crimes that they would not otherwise have solved. In the Central Party, however, we have chosen to place decisive emphasis on the consideration of privacy in the assessment of the police's access to room listening. The individual's right to privacy and to be able to communicate to others without outside knowledge are considered to be a fundamental human right in a state of law. We are therefore pleased that the Committee supports the Government's view that the police should not have access to space listening. We all agree that we should not give in to the fight against serious crime. At the same time, we must do what we can to ensure legal certainty and privacy. In the Central Party, we believe that the almost unanimous attitude we are dealing with here today both makes a necessary contribution to the fight against serious crime and takes care of these considerations. So finally, that the representative Bjørnstad had to drop the Center Party and sign a visit on international police cooperation was far from predictable. The representative, Bjørnstad, is a faithful armor for the uncritical tribute of the Workers' Party and the Labour Party leadership to everything that has to do with the EU. But I don't think he's got my nuance, which is that the Central Party and I want international police cooperation. What we do not want is cooperation that has supranational tones.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e300	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e303	I'm not the one who's hung up in the past, I want to look forward to how we can use the possibilities of today's landfilling of new exploration methods. And I am pleased, as I said in my introduction, with the unanimity to stress the need for increased police cooperation related to Europol. Now I did not hear the representative Nymo say anything about the international police cooperation specified to Europol. And I think the best thing for the future and the opportunities to move forward in relation to the cooperation opportunities that lie there is whether all the representatives confirm and approve the Committee's position. The representative of Nymo has been the one who has strongly opposed the search for a link with Europol. By January this year at the latest, the representative Nymo said that it was wasted time and resources seeking access to Europol. I would therefore now like to give the representative, Mr Nymo, the opportunity to withdraw that view and confirm that he fully subscribes to the opinion of the Ministry and the position of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e310	I thought it was reasonably clear, also for the representative of Bjørnstad, that what is said about Europol is also putting the centre party and I behind us. What I've expressed in the past is actually in line with what I expressed here in my main post. Practical police work, as I have gradually perceived as being Europol, is a line that I have constantly defended. Not least cooperation with Interpol, for example: the bilateral cooperation we had in our time with Denmark on combating MC crime that produced very fruitful results. So if Bjørnstad had listened with some goodwill, he would also have understood that I am in favour of police cooperation to combat the ever-increasing international crime that we see outside the world.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e319	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e322	We are going to vote in favour of these legislative amendments. But our vote must be seen in connection with our proposal for the first sentence of the third paragraph of Section 216a. Our vote is not due to the work of the committee, but to the fact that the ministry has made a good and honest attempt to balance different interests with each other. It has obviously not been easy, with a recommendation from the Methodological Committee, which was largely influenced by the interests of the police and prosecution authorities. In my view, the Committee should have taken the lead in making some fundamental reflections on privacy and legal certainty. The Committee's position has been cleared for such reflections. There can be no doubt that with these new research methods, we are moving some boundaries, and we are opening up to abuse in important areas of privacy. Modern investigation methods may lead to the setting aside of recognised data protection and legal certainty principles, not least as a result of the possibilities of secrecy, which are a natural consequence of new methods of investigation. There is an increasing fragmentation in political work. In some cases, the various proposals may not represent serious estimates of privacy. In general, it can still be shown that we're moving across a limit that we shouldn't have moved over. The protection of privacy is characterised, inter alia, by: the right to communicate to others without being subject to supervision. Trust that conversations are not overheard and that confidential information is not abused is a prerequisite for meaningful communication. The protection of privacy is essential for us not to evolve towards a totalitarian society, a social system of which we know different deformities. Basic considerations of legal certainty may be set aside due to increased secrecy. Legal certainty means protection against wrong decisions, the principle that the suspect is able to defend his or her interests before decisions are taken. The fact that basic legal certainty guarantees have been weakened by the fact that we are now opening up new investigation methods has been sought compensated by the suspect having the lawyer appointed to appeal for telephone control decisions. It is an important emphasis the Ministry makes when they state that the lawyer's task is to care for the interests of the suspect and not, as the Methodology Committee suggests, the interests of society, what it might be in this context. The Ministry has chosen to follow the sample with regard to the use of penalties as a criterion for the different methods to be used. Based on an easy way to evaluate this, it's understandable. Ideally, they should have taken care of the various criminal acts and defined in the law when the new methods are to be used. The Ministry should have taken the trouble to assess the needs and benefits of the various offences. The penal framework is a poorly suited criterion in opening up investigation methods that could weaken privacy, including to innocent third parties. I would like to commend the Ministry for putting the foot down at one point in relation to the Methodology Committee, namely on the possibility of space listening. Then you can have long discussions about the boundary should go on space listening. I am not sure that space listening is less threatening for privacy than telephone interception. Room listening may be more demanding at work. What surprises me is that the committee is not so easy. They accept the Ministry's proposal, but stress that they will have the matter back to political discussion as soon as possible. I actually thought it was political treatment they had been doing for quite a long time right in this area. Our proposal for the new third paragraph of Section 216 is to be seen as a safety valve. In the Committee's eagerness to swallow the new method, we would like to try to mark legal and data protection, that these new methods should only be applied after other methods have not been developed. Although this does not solve the fundamental problem, this is nevertheless a way of signaling to the police and prosecution authorities that the legislator sees serious problems by opening up new methods. We also have a proposal – it is a follow-up to what the Control and Constitutional Committee said in Innst. S. No 240 for 1996-97, which dealt with the Lund report — to legislate that persons who have been subject to communication control in matters of national security should be entitled to require notification. I'm dealing with these two suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e356	Rolf Rikham has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e359	All research will somehow interfere with people's everyday lives and represent an intervention in what we call privacy, and therefore, among other things, does. requirements for significant legal certainty guarantees. However, in relation to what is called traditional methods, we have just what is in the concept of a long tradition, and most measures are carried out to a large extent by transparency in relation to those involved. The extraordinary methods we are dealing with today are partly new and much more secret-based, and they intervene more strongly in people's privacy. This also applies to the direct home arena, and the measures we are dealing with today therefore represent, by their nature, some dramatic reinforcement in terms of interference with what we call privacy. Therefore, the inclusion of such methods imposes strong requirements on the justification. To make strong demands on the justification applies both in general, that is, to allow the method as such to be used, and in relation to the specific assessment relating to the types of issues in which we want to apply the methods, and the requirements to be imposed on the individual case in order to accept their use. The action on which there has probably been the greatest public debate relates to snooping. There may be reason to point out that it may have been overfocused on the other measures, because it is almost forgotten that they too are important interventions in relation to people's private lives in different ways. However, once this has become the central issue, I think it at the same time highlights something important, namely the value of the private and confidential conversation, whether it concerns major and important questions or the more trivial and everyday – just the private. The fact that when you use the phone, you can count on the same security for who is involved in the conversation, also by listening to, as you can count on when you sit face to face with a person, is an important value for most people. We have quite strong testimony from people who have believed they have been listening, about what it has meant to them, and we also have strong evidence from people who know that they have been listening, and how it is experienced when they know this. That's why listening is important, and it's important to preserve the value that most people can expect from having a confidential conversation, that you know who are participants and actors in the conversation. This is an important individual right, but I would like to emphasise that there is also an important social interest that is safeguarded by securing the private conversation. What we're going to remember is that it's not a matter of protecting criminals' conversation about criminal acts, but the conversations of the innocent, whether it's family or others who use that phone that a suspect also owns, or it's simply the fact that the suspect turns out to be innocent. The left has clearly expressed disagreement with the method selection and its setting. What, then, is the reason why the Left supports the current setting? As I was in a couple of lines, it is the left's opinion that it is not the method selection settings that have been submitted. Firstly, we believe that the proposals that are being promoted here are correct in relation to the needs that exist. The conditions for the application of the method are far more stringent than those for which the methodology was adopted. You keep the scan against rhombusting. There, I just want to make it clear that the Committee's comments that seem to give the impression of a positive attitude towards space listening a little in time, we do not agree, and that is how we conduct the confidential conversation. There are also heavy and strong legal safeguards related to suspension, and I would like to say that there is a dramatic improvement on the legal security side in relation to the currently permitted interception in drug matters. Finally, we also place considerable emphasis on the evaluation, and it should not be an evaluation primarily in order to be able to go further; it should also be an evaluation of the experience with the methods that have been used.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e376	The case rapporteur had a principal and good presentation of the setting, so I'm just going to add points of view. The proposition has many aspects of assessments and issues to come back to, such as space listening, the use of sources, the treatment of witnesses, etc. There are several important issues in which the Government leaves to the Storting to conclude, despite thorough sampling work in advance and in good time for the preparation of the proposition. I think that, above all, it shows that there are difficult professional and political balances that are being made in this matter, there are important principles that stand against each other. On the one hand, we have the fight against crime, where we know that we need new methods and tools. It's harder to deal with, it's more organised and international crime. Police have to use sources and witnesses in another way, and we have to protect victims and testify in another way. On the other hand, the principles of data protection, that we should not harm the private sphere and privacy of the innocent, and that we should be able to verify claims and evidence. The great degree of unanimity that lies behind the setting, I think is a good sign in the difficult terrain we're moving in here. The role of the witnesses and the ability to protect them is one of the things we come back to. The Committee points out in its position on Storting's treatment of the so-called sacrifice proposal in the spring of 1994, where, among other things: In order to protect the witness, Section 284 of the Criminal Procedures Act amended the law, i.e. offended, better. That's where we opened up so that you could also testify for insults. In fact, the reason would be more than discomfort to the offended, but the access is there. From a case-law point of view, there may seem to be a small-scale scheme. Otherwise, it is also allowed not to give the address of witnesses, and when dealing with the law on source protection here last year, we opened up so that the judge could shut down the courts of the public for the sake of witnesses. I think it's good that we're now going to have a proper review of this with the protection of witnesses, that one takes a full review of it. But my call before we make new legislative changes is that the system must also use the less dramatic instruments to which it is accessible, fully and to a greater extent than today. Another review requested by the Committee, which appears to be overly mature, concerns the issue of so-called ‘plea bargaining’ — cases where the defendant declares himself guilty or otherwise cooperates and informs the police and in return receives less punishment or less serious charges. This has never been formally or in principle discussed and has not been formally introduced as a system in Norway. However, there is a practice of contact between prosecution authorities and defenders that may have had a bearing on the criminal charge. It may seem that the practice here runs ahead of the law and the debate in principle. Hopefully, there's no reason to criticise the practice. There are several people who are excited about the results of the State Attorney's review of several cases at the Oslo Police Chamber, which TV2 brought up in a program, but in any case there is no doubt that a review of the practice and a discussion of the principle is what is needed. The Committee considers that it is already justified to state that provision is not to be made for remuneration. Economic remuneration is another kind of remuneration, and today we have good guidelines from the National Attorney who is the basis of the practice. In short, it involves generous coverage of expenses to the informant. The committee proposes that less money be given, up to NOK 15 000, to informants if it seems necessary or deserved. The proposition refers only to the authority of the Advocate General through the guidelines he gives. But I think it's worth stressing that here we have to be very careful. Clean payment for information can be a dangerous way to go. The lawyer has shot the field well so far, and we trust that he will continue to do so, and that this will be seen in a broader context. So finally, even with the clarifications that are now in the position, we are faced with several important fundamental considerations that we have to tackle and not let live our own lives.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e395	Changes in society and crime mean that the police need to use new and more modern and effective investigation methods. In particular, developments in organised crime are worrying. This is a particularly socially damaging activity that is difficult to investigate: More cross-border contact results in more cross-border and organised crime. It has developed criminal environments that are more closed, spread more fear, and use more violence and weapons than before. These relationships, combined with technological developments, often do not extend to traditional research methods. At the same time, technological developments make it possible to use methods of investigation which would involve extensive interference with privacy and which may be objectionable for reasons of legal certainty. Therefore, it has been important for me to find a balance between the need for new methods and the need for privacy and legal certainty. I am therefore in favour of the conditions under which the different methods should be applied being more stringent than those proposed by the Methodological Committee. In addition, the government has not proposed opening the door to phone interception, etc. belonging to persons suspected of wanting to call, or to the use of space listening. I am pleased that the Committee on Legal Affairs agrees that such methods should not be allowed. But I have noticed that the committee is asking the ministry to keep the questions under consideration. I have also focused on improving legal certainty in the process around the use of the motos. Here I would like to highlight the proposal for a system of defence for the suspect, who should also be able to enforce the decisions on coercive use. In my view, it is particularly important that access to communication interception is extended, so that the police are allowed to intercept telephone calls and data communications in the investigation of crimes that could result in prison sentences for at least 10 years, as well as regardless of the criminal framework in drug matters and matters of national security. The proposals to legislate and extend access to technical traceability and to open up the use of secret searches, seizures and extradition orders are also important. Neither the current law nor any legislative proposal prevents the interception of GSM mobile phones. But such listening requires expensive equipment that the police do not have today. I see it as a high priority task to facilitate such interception, and will come back to this issue in the context of the 1999 supplementary and redeployment proposition. The Committee, acting on the initiative of the Police Monitoring Service, has changed the basis for technical traceability to include the infringement of the Export Control Act. The need for technical traceability in such cases has arisen after the promotion of the proposition. I support enlargement. I also have no strong objection to opening up a secret investigation into drugs and matters of national security, regardless of the criminal framework. A minority in the Committee would like to maintain today's rules on time limits for listening in matters of national security. The majority follow the Ministry's proposal for a maximum period of eight weeks at a time. Legal certainty reasons warrant such a solution. It may be possible to extend an unlimited number of times as long as the conditions for listening are met. I feel confident that the courts will make such extensions in the cases where the prosecution authority demonstrates that there is a need for it. The proposal proposes some changes to criminal provisions that are relevant to the fight against terrorism. Here I would like to highlight the proposal to extend criminal liability for preparatory actions. In addition, terrorism will often be such that the police will be able to use the new methods of investigation. I place great emphasis on post-control of the amendment after three to four years. It is necessary to examine whether the change has had the desired effect. In addition, we need to look at the impact of the use of these methods on the legal certainty and privacy of individuals. The proposal on investigation methods is linked to two other legal issues: in the spring, new and more effective rules on the withdrawal of dividends were adopted. Retirement is an important instrument in the fight against organised crime. In the autumn, the Ministry has sent, at the hearing, proposals for measures to protect the police and witnesses against threats and reprisals. Among other things, it is proposed to allow the use of anonymous witnesses and a separate criminal order for threats to criminal agents. I have noted the Committee's support for the Government's wish for a cooperation agreement with Europol. We have repeatedly stated from the Norwegian side that we want negotiations on a third country agreement. At the moment, we do not know when Europol will have negotiating competence, because the decision on this has not been dealt with in the Council of the European Union. Nor do we know for sure what priority Norway can have, because the EU will decide this afterwards. We will, of course, exercise the influence we can so that the negotiations can come about as quickly as possible. I would add: in the fight against international crime there is also the cooperation we have in the Nordic countries, the cooperation we have through Interpol, the cooperation we have established with the Russian border forces, and the cooperation we want to establish with US police agencies. It is a sad fact that when we talk about drugs, we know, for example. that most of the cocaine from Colombia goes to the United States, but some come to Europe. A lot has gone to Spain. The Spanish police have become more effective. There is reason to take it seriously that Norway has a long and vulnerable coast that can often be suitable for transit also of this type of criminal activity. In many ways the world has become more open. The economy is open. Criminals have also acquired university education and competence, and when it comes to sexism and bad morals, we must work hard to defend democratic society. We do this because we hold on to the guarantees of legal certainty and because we want to test the methods on an ongoing basis. I think we can be proud of the way we handle it. It happens in democratic transparency, and it happens by lawmaking. That's how it's going to happen in a legal state.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e427	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e430	I was a little inspired by the line change with the representative Nymo here instead, and I would like to follow up with a question. It is important to have confirmed that all the centre parties here in the United Kingdom have also given full support to the request for formalised relations with Europol. I am aware that one will give a detailed explanation later this autumn of no follow-up and of the possibilities that one has with Europol. But I could imagine asking the Minister of Justice if he can now give a provisional status in relation to whether that wish has been notified to the EU and in what context. What contact has he had from the summer to the summer, and what contact will it be before we receive the notification of international police cooperation? And how does the Minister of Justice assess the question of connectivity when looking at part of the meetings that have been in the EU context related to enhanced, closer judicial cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e437	As the representative of Bjørnstad says, we're going to present a separate message on international police cooperation, and we're going to deal with it in broad terms, of course. There we come up with a number of the questions I raised now: the cooperation that goes towards Europe, Europol, but also the cooperation that goes further, for example. towards Russia and other continents. As far as Europol is concerned, I have visited both Europol and Interpol earlier this autumn, and I have the impression that the police authorities want this to happen. At present, the order of priority for negotiating is up to decision in EU bodies. I have kept in touch with the U.D. to be absolutely sure that we are acting as thoroughly as we can to influence it. I also expect, in connection with the meeting of the Council of Ministers which is to be held in connection with the Schengen Agreement on Friday, that this is a subject which I have an opportunity to follow up. We are keenly interested in achieving such a third-country agreement and get it done as quickly as possible. Politically speaking, everything speaks for it. I'm not going to go into the diplomatic pages that otherwise relate to this, because then I'm going to start acting like a different kind of government council than what I am.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e446	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e451	I think it is right to say that this debate has been more a debate on the form and nature of the debate than on its content. When the representative Tor Nymo, referring to his six years in the Judicial Committee, said he had never heard such a moderate contribution from Jan Simonsen, I believe – with significantly shorter seagoing service in the Judicial Committee – that this is a true characteristic. It is only the opposite of the totally misunderstood kind of ice cream from the side that has had a different view of criminal policy in recent years. I guess you could say that a total of justice has come down on the moderate, reflective line of these questions. If I'm going to try an analysis of what the cause of this might be, I think it might be that the organized, the grossly violent and the international crime is in a way as the underlying premise, as the underlying liability of the Storting. It has become so that more and more people understand that a civilised society can only find its form in a society where crime control is taken with the deepest seriousness. This also allows the question of right-hand room listening to be taken with considerable peace of mind. With a certain exception – by the representative Hove – it was not even necessary to hear between the lines. We heard articles, for example. by Finn Kristian Marthinsen and by the vice-president of the Committee, Vidar Bjørnstad. I think it is wise that the right is waiting to propose space listening until the obvious majority falls into place, as the committee leader said – that is very sensible. Some people need a little bit more time than others. Finally – and this is the most serious – the relationship with the secret services. From the Right we have always said that we need driving good secret services based on safe, legitimate reasons. In my opinion, we are weakening this consideration by favouring a dramatic reduction in the deadline for secret services to seek sleep cells and other forms of trying to circumvent these services, as well as the use of surplus information in relation to security clearance, which is the most important of all. But also in the case of POT, I prefer to be optimistic. We are getting a big message about international police cooperation for the autumn, and there I think these matters are being discussed and problematized. [[The President clubs.]] Then we'll get a solution, even though Tor Nymo obviously still won't admit it. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e464	The President asks Bjørn Hernæs to stay on time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e468	I will very well refrain from participating in the characterisation of fellow debaters. I really don't think that's necessary. I think it is much better to stick to the facts of the matter. Among the facts on the table are two proposals from SV, which I take the floor to comment on now, in order to spend less time when we get to the voting procedure a little later. What is proposed by SV in proposal No. 3, ‘Punishment Procedures Act. The first sentence of the third paragraph of Section 216a is replaced by the following: Paragraph 216(c) of today's section, which has been proposed further, states that communication interception can only be carried out if such interception would be of – and I stress – significant importance for resolving the matter, and that otherwise clarification will be significantly complicated. These are strict conditions, which, therefore, are very much in line with the SV proposal. But the SV's proposal is even more stringent, and in my opinion it will put too tight a framework on the use of communication interception. With regard to the second proposal, proposal No. 4, it is worth stressing that the background to the derogation in question is precisely the consideration of national security, cooperative services, source protection, third parties and future investigations. Control shall be and will be carried out by the EOS Committee instead. In addition, if an action is brought, the right of access to the defendant shall continue. And it will, in my view, be of such a nature that this should be the proper care of the legal certainty of individuals, while taking into account the security of the state. That is why I would recommend the centre fraction to vote against these two proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e485	We are well in the situation that, as was mentioned, we have had a debate on the debate to some extent today, or perhaps rather the absence of debate. And it may be that there are several of us who have a little bad conscience because we haven't had a little more debate on these issues, precisely because we perceive that these are important issues that could in many ways have deserved a larger debate and a greater exchange of views. On the other hand, I think we should be aware that these are issues that there have been in many ways a continuous debate around a long time in Norwegian society and in Norwegian public opinion. This means that different considerations have been intertwined over time, and it's been taken into consideration where you might say in particular that you're in a situation where you've moved a little bit both from one point of view and from the other in the positions you've originally had. The representative, Bjørn Hernæs, expressed that the final result was in line with Right's reflected and moderate line – if I now remember correctly. It is that self-crust should be listened to, for it is said to come from the heart. In fact, I will allow myself to claim that some of the most marked things in today's debate, at my discretion, have just been the lack of a bid by the Right and the Advance Party for the purpose of appearing as more stringent and stronger in the fight against crime than other parties do. In concrete terms, then, we are in the situation that the Right chooses not to present a proposal that has been a major debate on the inside of the Right, with a rather unanimous Right – to correct possible errors in the right-hand number of votes earlier – that we should go in for space snooping. On behalf of the Left, I have no problem expressing our pride in being perhaps the strongest defenders of privacy and legal certainty in the political debate. We might think that we've moved a little bit, but in fact, I think it's very important to stress just the strong constraints that have been included in the proposals that exist, and the clear elements of legal certainty guarantees that are an important part of the balancing process.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e498	There have been some widespread comments about the police surveillance service, and that is why I am speaking. Let me say this in this way: there is no doubt, in my opinion, that the debates we have had have cleaned/freed the police surveillance service, so that they can correct their backs and fight against them – no later than a debate we had in connection with the position of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee on the EOS Committee. It is my opinion that we need a modern and up-to-date surveillance service. I have said that from this pulpit. I would like to stress that, because we are facing a complex and complex picture of terror. I'm not going to repeat what I said about the possibility of extending the eight-week period. I am convinced that the courts will do so. But I would like to take this opportunity to refer to the possibility of extended searches, for example. which is in the unanimous committee position, and which I believe is important. But I took the floor first and foremost to stress that there should be no doubt about the ability and willingness of this Council of State to follow up everything that would enable the police surveillance service to do the job they are going to do. We will need that in the years that come, with the complex picture we have of both organized crime and I would like to say of the danger we can get from what we now often call, with a fine word, non-governmental terrorist groups – i.e. organisations that believe that they can deal with the rule of law and ordinary citizens on the basis of self-imposed morality.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e511	The debate on substance is closed. 2 is over. [[Footage, see page 28]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e519	The odelsting shall vote in cases 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e860	It is voted over the titles of the laws and the laws in their entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e869	Law decisions will be sent to Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e875	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 and 2, by Kristin Krohn Devold on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right Proposals No. 3 and 4, from Rolf Reikvam on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposals Nos. 1 and 2 are included in the vote, while the proposals No. 3 and 4 are distributed in the hall. The President will first refer to proposal No. 4, which reads: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit legislative proposals to ensure that persons who have been subject to communication control in matters of national security are entitled to request notification. Notification should only be made after the monitoring has taken place. ‘The proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. The Committee had nominated Odelstingen to take such a decision to:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e1352	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party to § 216 a new third paragraph, first sentence. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Punishment Process Act.New § 216a, third paragraph, first sentence:Communication interception may only be permitted if other investigations have not been carried out. ‘First, this proposal is contested and then the suspension of § 216a, b, c and d.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e1383	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: «In the Criminal Procedures Act of 22 May 1981 No. 25 is amended as follows: The new third sentence of the first paragraph of Article 216f shall be replaced by the following:However, if the suspicion of infringement of the criminal law Chapter 8 or 9 is concerned, the court may set a longer period if the nature of the investigation or other specific circumstances indicate that retrial after 4 weeks would be irrelevant. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e1579	Paragraph 216 of the third and fourth sentences of the first subparagraph contains an aberrant proposal, No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e1608	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e1617	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26-lower.ana.ud656e1626	There is no record.
