ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e40	The representatives of Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, Inge Myrvoll, Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt, Ingvald Godal and Jørgen Kosmo, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. They called for alternates, for South Trondelag County Heidi K. Larsen and for Eastfold County Morten Olsen, have taken their seats. Three permit applications are available: from representatives Bent Hegna and Rolf Terje Klungland on leave in the days from 2 November to 4 November to attend the Fifth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Climate Change Convention in Bonn by Mr John Dale on leave on days 3 and 4 November to attend a meeting in Brussels chaired by the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first and second alternates of the Hordaland County, Bjørg Hope Galtung and Magnar Lussand, are currently abroad and for that reason prevented from meeting under the John Dales leave of November 3rd and 4th. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the West Agder County: Bjørn RobstadFor the Hordaland County: Monika Soltveit GabrielliFor the Telemark County: Marthe Scarning Lund and Turid Opedal2. Monika Soltveit Gabrielli is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of John Dale.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e125	The bear Robstad and Turid Opedal are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e130	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e135	I propose Per Ove Width and Øyvind Korsberg.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e140	Per Ove Width and Øyvind Korsberg are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Per Ove Width and Øyvind Korsberg are considered unanimously elected presidents of the current week’s meetings. Before considering the issues on today’s map, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the scheduled time of 9 p.m. 15 to the current map has been completed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e156	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each party group and after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e167	Today we treat St.prp. No 2 Negotiations on the establishment of an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. However, the issue of the creation of an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu has been addressed for so many rounds and over so long that there may be reason to recall that already in the 1998 state budget setting from the Family, Culture and Administration Committee, everyone said, apart from SV, that they support the plans to set up a national IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. They also said that the aim was to create a centre of international importance – I repeat: of international importance – which will contribute to new business and new educational functions in the interaction between research, education and industry. The majority place a decisive emphasis on the creation of a network that ensures adequate flow of information and competences between the international, national and local environments. Here it was also underlined that the Centre should not develop into a purely ownership project based on the desire for short-term profit, and that the State should actively participate in the realisation of the vision of an internationally attractive IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. These goals and leaderships have a doctor at the bottom of the big game through all the rounds we've had, but with the sitting government, we have every time we have to move from spoon to spoon. The need to bet on such a centre has, in my opinion, only become clearer and clearer. Nevertheless, it seemed that the government's arrangement was to create a knowledge centre based on the criteria at least the last possible time. This is certainly not a lot of offensive business policy at a time when we are looking at Norwegian industry with industrial locomotives that are being built down or sold out. We read and hear daily about the situation in Norwegian Hydro, Elkem, Dyna, Aker RGI and Kværner. In addition, the migration and wish for the sale of Norwegian financial institutions to the rest of the world. We also see all the decline in the two most important industrial clusters we have, the maritime and offshore. The new business areas created in the new economy do not in any way replace this return in Norway, contrary to what we see in some other European countries. Nevertheless, we have interesting possibilities, if the governance through its policies facilitates it. A real investment in an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu will be an important tool for creating new nutritional growth in an area that has potential for the future. We have to exploit our comparative foremons. The Norwegian population is advanced users. It is claimed that the Nordics are two years ahead of the rest of the world as users of the Internet and mobile phone. I refer you to them, too. to the Chief Executive Officer of the American IT company Oracle at the Telecom Conference Telecom-99 in Geneva in mid-October this year. Several large IT companies agreed at the same conference that the Nordic region is the most advanced market for innovation in IT and telecommunications worldwide. This is also an expression in these companies of their willingness to invest in the Nordic region. In other words, Norway has the potential to attract the necessary technologies and competences from other countries as a basis for creating new growth in Norway. But it requires Norwegian authorities to commit themselves to exploiting this possibility. Norway still has to compete with the rest of the world to attract the knowledge resources it needs. If we are to succeed, we need to build a competence environment as a tool for development and new business. These environments must be strong enough to hold good people, and they must be strong enough to make people from other countries want to search because it is useful for their own business. And they have to be connected in a national network, so that the regions can both deliver something and drag and drop. Such a knowledge environment consists of links between higher education, research and industrial development. It gives students and researchers important problems to work with, and it can provide solutions and insight for the development of new products and services. Such an environment is being built in several places around the world. And now we also see how it's going to be a bet. in the Øresund area. Most of the cities are driven by cooperation between private and public authorities. A corresponding investment may be necessary in Norway when information technology changes our economy and our living conditions every day. At Fornebu we have the possibilities. It may be worth noting that as we now deal with this matter, his Telenor and Telia and negotiate the location of his future bet. I think it has to be ensured that Telenor-Telia's investment in the so-called WAP technology – the technology that combines mobile telephony and the Internet, perhaps the most important and fast-growing technology area in the world – can also take place in Norway. For Telenor, it would be crucial to create an attractive knowledge environment in the vicinity of the Fornebu headquarters. The stronger the environment, the more likely the new common group will be to invest in Fornebu and Norway. Foreign IT company's willingness to invest in Norway is closely linked to the creation of a strong development environment associated with Telenor at Fornebu. They establish where they find attractive environments. In this situation, it is unlikely that the Governing Body’s arrangements seem to be – to repeat them once again – at least possible later. On the contrary, the main industrial policy task should be to create the most efficient professional environment that can provide the basis for attracting the technology and competences needed by Norway to create new business development that can compensate for the decline in the established industry. The plans for a knowledge centre at Fornebu are primarily an industry development project. As a basis for what is in the setting, I have focused on a perspective that we need to focus on an IT and knowledge center at Fornebu. There is therefore no time to go through the setting and all the individual relationships there. It may be read by representatives and others. Let me just mention something: the majority of the Committee emphasises the objective of an internationally competitive IT and knowledge centre that can also support regional development environments. If it is to be successful, it must create an attractive professional environment, a good business environment and an internationally competitive environment. State must be an active driver and co-player in development. The committee majority believes that the greatest option outlined in the proposition will strengthen the overall concept, and that it will hardly be a good solution with two different companies. Adding everything into the joint ownership company will prevent anyone from sitting and managing parts of this centre as a purely property project without taking part in the common costs. A realization of the goal with the center has set a comprehensive plan and a superior management of the whole enterprise. Therefore, the State should be the owner of a joint owner company responsible for the whole development and development of the knowledge environment. The Committee of the Regions believes that in the choice of stakeholders, an emphasis must be placed on stakeholders’ skills and plans to associate themselves with other countries’ competences, arrangements for cooperation with the regions and measures to develop the environment elsewhere in the country, plans to show how the Centre will contribute to new business activities and be an engine for innovation for the whole country, and plans for interactions between research, education and business. This is a follow-up to the majority of the population before, and could be said as simple as the Committee refers to comments and previous decisions and suggests that the Government will follow them up. With this, I would advise Stortinget to support the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e205	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e208	The Christian People's Party agrees with the Labour Party that it is important to enable Norway to participate in the revolution that knowledge and information technology seems to create. We need innovation, and we need new business. What I'm wondering is that the Workers' Party places so much emphasis on the area to be included in the Fornebu Centre. This is similar to changing the rules during fights, which is otherwise an ounce. So the additional area that the Workers' Party would like to include in the Centre is not the property of the state. Of course, it may take time to acquire such property. Can the representative Rudihagen confirm that the centre of Fornebu is more important than the building – that a centre of international importance, as the Government has visions about, is more important than the building? And is it that it's urgent to get this going?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e215	The basis for such an ambitious investment is, as I was in my post, that one can make the centre internationally competitive, and that it also has the ability to bite regions. The bet must be seen in conjunction with the bet that takes place around us and internationally. An arrangement to make international companies add research and development functions to Fornebu is that one has a total arrangement that seems attractive. And if it should be attractive, one has to have housing, and one has to facilitate key people, both from abroad and from Norway, as well as the large number that will work in the company Telenor-Telia. That is why we believe that the greatest concept will be the best. But that's the vision -- to use a nice expression -- about an IT and knowledge center that's the main purpose. And for all things – I must say to the representative Apelthun Seele: that is what is the main purpose. To the extent that housing and other nutrient areas are needed, there is a need to strengthen the overall concept and make it as competitive as possible. It's true that the country doesn't have the area that makes the difference between 316 pieces and 500 pieces. So the arrangement of the government sketches, that a private interested person in that case has to get it for himself, is quite fine. But our point is that one doesn't have to create a concept that closes so that even that area can be added to the joint owner company, precisely based on the basis given in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e225	The rapporteur had an actual review of the matter with a little argument about the vision, and we should not overlook that part of what he says might happen. But there was little argument for what is really at the heart of the matter today, namely why the state should engage on the owner's side. As for all the other Rudihagen said, one must only wish good luck on the road and that the visions had to be fulfilled – for those who must have got hold of them. It's about whether we're going to bring state capital on the owner's side, and to what extent. That is what we are discussing. And when Rudihagen talks about the state that's pushing, I imagine a bitch in an outboard where a politician jumps behind. The wheel hovers in any case. And as Rudihagen says, if one succeeds, the state must commit itself. In fact, I think the fact that the state is engaged is the greatest risk for the entire project. In the setting, the Workers' Party and the Advance Party have referred to a few other places in the world where there should have been a similar case. Rudihagen was also involved in the Øresund initiative. I agree with Mr Rudihagen on the need for public participation in such a project through the institutions of the State: research, education, colleges, universities, etc. Of course, that's an integral part. But we're talking about ownership, and then Øresund is drawn out as an example. My simple question to Rudihagen: To what extent have the Swedish and Danish states engaged on the owner's side of the companies that are establishing themselves in Øresund? Then I'm not talking about the state institutions, which conclude agreements on general terms through research institutions and universities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e236	I said in my post that this was an industrial development project. This is well the case, and it must also be agreed by the representative Gabrielsen that the state has a responsibility to drive industrial development. It is also such that through it the country has many industrial and economic instruments. We spend billions a year, either through the SND or through transfers to agriculture, we have periodically given aid to shipyards, reimbursement to seafarers, etc. etc. What we are now seeing is a transition from the industrial community to the knowledge society. At that time, I believe that the state needs to steer some of its industrial policy instruments into the new industrial areas we see in the knowledge society, among others. within IT-related activity. So there's nothing new in that state being active in an industrial development project. This is what we also see around many other countries, that the new economic development takes place in the form of a partnership between public authorities and private enterprise, where one has common goals and pulls together against the common objectives. The Øresund project, which was specifically asked about, I simply do not have such a good idea that I can say anything about what the state is going to do on the owner's side. But anyway, as Gabrielsen himself was inside, it's a huge bet. Among other things, there are 12-14 universities, different research parks, etc. which shall form part of a total concept to develop an IT and knowledge centre in the Øresund area. At least I mean that it's right, as the Storting has always said, that the state should be with and exploit the possibility that we have as owners of buildings and land on Fornebu to ensure that we get a center in line with our intentions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e245	I think it is unwise and unfortunate to present it so that we do not have heavy knowledge centres in this country, as Rudihagen put great emphasis on. In Norway we have good environments, we have strong professional environments. We have it in Trondheim linked up to the University of Trondheim, the NTNU environment and the SINTEF environment, we have it in Oslo linked up to the Gaustadbecken environment, and we have it in Bergen around the University of Bergen. We must not present it in such a way that we do not have good and strong environments that we must take care of and develop. Then my question to Rudihagen becomes when he wants to build a whole new, important and large knowledge centre in this country, and he looks at what's in the proposition, and the plans that these heavy environments already have in relation to the Fornebu environment: if we look at what's going on at the plans of corporate universities and the plans of network universities, what opportunities does Rudihagen see for himself that the strong environments we have today are ready to jump on and go into this project? Because if we're to succeed, we're totally dependent on the fact that the heavy and strong professional environments we have today are ready to use their resources. There's nothing today that indicates that these environments are ready to go in and participate in doing this to the environment that Rudihagen sees for itself. Isn't it a little worrying to focus so strongly on this knowledge environment when he knows that the other strong, good environments we have in Norway are not ready to share his vision: that this is the right bet?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e252	I can't remember saying that we don't have a heavy knowledge environment in this country. But I think that the future challenges require an increased interaction between industry, research and educational institutions. I think that the challenges require a much more ambitious investment in the future, and the IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu is meant to complement the heavy knowledge centers we have in this country. Actually, it's also clearly typed in the setting, so I'd like to refer to it: ‘The IT and knowledge centre shall not create new educational and/or research institutions. The Centre shall contribute to the strengthening of the established Norwegian education and research environment and contribute to the linking of universities and higher education institutions closer to business.» Here it is meant to give the existing research and education environment an offer, a supplement, to what they needed, just to be able to add those elements in order to evolve and be where they are. Here, there may be questions of access to doctoral thesis tasks, to practical areas, to more testing and interaction with business. In this way, the IT and knowledge centre of Fornebu is no competitor at all to the existing educational and research environment. Then it will be very much up to them in the future to look at how much they will be involved in what is happening at Fornebu. It has always been a clear commitment that the research and training developments to take place at Fornebu should be their own premises for the existing educational and research institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e262	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e266	The main industrial challenge facing the country is the confusion of the existing industrial environment without creating a new industry that in some way replaces what we lose in value creation and jobs for Norway. Industrial clusters and enterprises move, on the one hand merge and, on the other hand, cease their business here at home. Internationalisation and capital migration without respect for national borders have created a nation’s competition for who can offer the best framework conditions and thus attract businesses, capital, competences and jobs. Old, closed markets and nations have been opened. And the results, yes, we see. Structural changes in our trading partners and competition from countries with lower wages and salaries that have a different economic understanding and culture of business may result in the closure of businesses and the relocation of production, head offices and environments of competence. This would be negative, especially when the research departments of the large companies come along, because then much of the knowledge and the innovative forces disappear. Of course, there may be reasonable grounds why enterprises choose to establish themselves in other countries. Some will grow in their core areas and will make production more efficient. But when we get visible evidence that it is the framework conditions that force businesses out of the country, conditions need to be remedied differently by the authorities. In order for Norway not to become competitive, we also need to sign up in the fight for future jobs and value creation – and it is time! The NHO debate booklet ‘Localisation Norway – Norwegian value creation in frontier-free competition’ has highlighted the international perception of our country. The fact that Norway is at the forefront of international business, and that we have a small domestic market of only 4.5 million. citizens, reducing attractiveness. Of course, there's not much we can do about it. However, if Norway is to be able to attract foreign and Norwegian industrialists and investors, then there are other world-class framework conditions. One of the factors that have turned negative, and where we really have the ability to do something, is the tax and tax system and the level of it. This year, the size has addressed both a business message and a ownership message, without following up with the necessary proposals to maintain attractive business life within the country’s borders, we believe business actors. Today's industrial policy is very much geared towards maintaining the existing business life without success. Much of what we have back risks being bought up on cheap sales and branched. To date, the Government has not found any means to remedy this. It lacks a strategy that can put mainland Norway in the centre as an investment country. In some sectors, Norway can succeed if only conditions are established. Norway can succeed in building up business clusters that are so attractive that it attracts businesses from other countries. It applies in the oil and gas, fisheries, aquaculture and maritime sectors. We also have opportunities in the IT and telecommunications sectors. The national environment of IT and telecommunications companies is too small in isolation, but it is part of a strong Nordic food cluster that we now see the contours of. One of the counterparts to this branchization we are experiencing, and which is likely to only continue, can be to get foreign enterprises to create business in these new business areas, where there are interesting opportunities. One of Norway’s major comparative advantage is that the Norwegian population is advanced users. Norway is one of the world’s leading users of mobile telephony and the Internet and can become it for online solutions. American IT companies claim that the Nordic region is two years ahead of the rest of the world that uses the Internet and mobile phone. This gives us opportunities in this sector, and for international companies to invest in the Nordic region. This can provide the basis for new business development in Norway and attract research and development functions from other countries. I'll come up with some newspaper statements from the past few days. Lotus and Nokia have concluded a cooperation agreement for the development of WAP technology for mobile phones. Lotus will add the company's new centre for this investment to the Nordic region. Hewlett-Packard has established a broad partnership with Nokia. The company has decided to establish a research centre in what will be the main city for the next generation Internet: Helsinki.Compaq wants to create a large development environment in telecommunications in Norway through a ‘Center of Excellence’. Compaq believes this will be less interesting if Telenor's mobile business is moved to Sweden.Oracle sees the Nordic market as one after the merger of Telia and Telenor. So far, Oracle has given priority to Sweden and Finland. Now Norway will also receive more attention. These plays show that Norway also has the opportunity to attract the necessary technologies and competences from other countries that have the basis for building new industries in Norway. But then the Norwegian authorities have to know their visitation time and take advantage of this opportunity. I will mention three elements that may be important in this context: It is necessary to facilitate the participation of Telenor-Telia in WAP technology – perhaps the most important and rapidly growing telecommunications sector in the world – in Norway as well. Like the representative Rudihagen, I would say, for Telenor at Fornebu, creating an attractive knowledge environment in the vicinity of the head office would be crucial. The stronger the environment, the greater the chance that the new joint group will choose to invest precisely in Fornebu and Norway.Foreign companies such as Compaq, Cisco Systems, Oracle and others have made it clear that their investment in Norway will be closely linked to the creation of strong development environments related to Telenor at Fornebu. They move where they find the most attractive environments.All companies have also made it clear that the framework industrial policy conditions must be internationally competitive. So how do the authorities follow this up? The Progress Party experiences it as training and rematching from the Government in relation to developing an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. In the situation in the Norwegian business world, and the number of business clusters that are confounding, it is almost incredible that the government's attention is very much directed to Fornebu as a property project in which it tries to create the least possible activity. The government is thus undermining what must be a central industrial policy task for the country: to create the strongest possible professional environment that can provide the basis for attracting the technology and skills needed to create new business development and compensate for the decline in the established industry. That is why today – November 2 – is an important date, because it is now the Grandfather of Fornebu who is important to Norway. It is about our future industrial and industrial policy. The majority, consisting of the Labour Party and the Advance Party, have long said exactly the same thing. A successful knowledge centre requires the area to be large enough to cover all actors to contribute to the knowledge centre. The Centre must achieve critical mass in terms of the number and variations of enterprises and educational and research institutions, while at the same time providing a wide range of services. This means that, in order to create an innovative, internationally attractive environment, it is necessary to facilitate a large-scale activity, in which case a sufficient area must be available. This applies regardless of who owns the Fornebu area – I would stress that. Furthermore, the majority in Finland. S. No 99 for 1998-99 pointed out that the Stortinget asked the Government to come back with an opinion on which interested person had developed the best plan. The group that submits the best plan must also include measures for cooperation with the regions, which can provide opportunities elsewhere in our country. The majority of the population has pointed out on a number of occasions that there is a pressing need to participate in national competition for knowledge capital. It may be appropriate to recall that the Fornebu case was discussed in the United Kingdom in December 1997, May 1998, June 1998, November 1998, February 1999, May 1999, June 1999 and now in November 1999. This is due, inter alia, to: Training and little willingness to follow the majority's assumptions on the part of the Government, as we in the Progress Party see it. The majority, the Labour Party and the Advance Party assume that the Government will present the outcome of the final negotiations in a proposal for the Stortinget no later than 17 December. I hope that we at Fornebu will be able to help develop the knowledge society in Norway as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e321	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e324	Since Hedstrøm did not talk so much about the matter, the negotiations on the establishment of an IT centre on Fornebu, and since the majority parties are pushing through a position tailored to one of the two stakeholders, I cannot interpret it in any other way than that the decision on the model and the interested party must have been taken a long time ago. The other relationship that I see reason to take up, since the rapporteur could not explain it or had an overview, and especially since this is one of the majority party's glan numbers, the picture of the state as a catalyst and the great pusher. Here we refer to the majority vote, which is: 'The majority will point to this success, State must be an active driver and contributor in development. The majority will show that such partnerships are also seen in e.g. The United States and our neighbouring countries Sweden and Denmark in connection with the Øresund initiative.’ I have to ask the question, is this the case? These countries do not have a model of their solutions that can be compared in any way to the so-called Hed-Op variant in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e336	On the part of the Progress Party, we have not taken a position on which of the remaining two stakeholders should be awarded the award, but the political majority has for a long time laid the framework for a vision to be satisfied, we must have an area that is large enough and some other prerequisites must be met. The government received seven offers from us and chose to negotiate with three of the stakeholders. Two of these three have now merged and increased their ability to compete from 33 1/3 pst. to 50 pst. It was also in line with a wish from the bulk of the population to achieve synergies through aggregation. We have not taken a final position, but I expect those who are professionals in the business community to have read the settings from previous treatments in Stortinget and relate to it. So, in this case, with State participation, we have accepted that the State can place its properties and buildings in a common ownership with the private ones. This occurs in the form of a cash deposit corresponding to the net value of the country's properties. The state has a responsibility for industrial policy in a country and must be a driver. There is an explosive development in the IT and knowledge sectors, and this is the case. But it must be the private ones that are responsible for growth and initiative in this centre. And then to how this is international. We have a number of IT and knowledge centres, and I actually don't know anyone where the government is not involved in a collaboration with private stakeholders.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e347	This was an article that adds itself to the majority position in a good way. The first part was a list of honorary words and names of internationally known IT companies. In the last part, Hedstrom went over to talk about the area, and it was in many ways what became the most important thing. I want to ask the same question to Hedstrøm that I asked to Rudihagen: When Hedstrøm looks at the plans that public authorities have on the education and research side – and those are the public universities and colleges that we talk about mostly when we talk about research and education – and when he looks at the plans that these companies have and what they put forward as their proposals, and that are also implied in the proposition, namely a business university, a network university, that is basically what lies there of concrete things, is he optimistic about setting up the type of knowledge centre that he is now looking for, a knowledge centre that will largely compete with the centres that we have established around the vast majority of major universities in this country? So the question is, is he optimistic about getting to his knowledge center?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e356	I can answer the question unequivocally yes. I'm optimistic. In fact, in the committee hearings and in other contexts, we have asked the two stakeholders who are back, what kind of commitment agreements they have drawn up, for example. with international companies, what contacts they have with universities and research environments internationally. We have also, of course alongside the physical Fornebu, been very concerned about the possibilities for regional ring-effects, where preliminary agreements with 30 to 40 municipalities have already been signed, among others. establishing companies, electronic classrooms, etc. So I think this is going to be a development that will be completely explosive on the day one of these two stakeholders gets hit. Then we'll get a development on Fornebu that I hardly think anyone in this room has dreamed about.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e361	The representative Hedstrøm mentioned that Stortinget has recently addressed the so-called ownership message. It draws up important principal aspects of state ownership in business, and here the Progress Party also has clear points of view. In its programme, the Progress Party takes a distance from a mix, or interrelationship, as they call it, between so-called societal interests and business-economic, rational interests. Such a mixture is harmful, according to the programme of the Progress Party. The responsibility is diluted, because there is always a way out of critical positions, points out the Progress Party. Now, the Progress Party is with and forms the majority in this case, a majority that will use public funds to build dwellings on Fornebu, at the same time in a property company that will also deal with other tasks – in the opinion of the Left, a clear mix. Does the Progress Party and the representative Hedstrøm believe that building dwellings on Fornebu is in an economic interest, a social interest or a mixture of these? How does this harmonize with the Progress Party programme?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e368	It is nice that the representative, Kongshaug, has taken the time to read parts of the nutrition program of the Advance Party. It's very good there, so I hope he continues that reading. It is true that we dealt with the ownership message and the business message earlier this year. The few specific measures that came from the Government were a project development grant and some so-called regional seed funds. I guess that was the essence of it. This will in no way affect the establishment and development of Norway in Norwegian business – whether in the case of large or small and medium-sized enterprises. There's got to be a completely different grip here. In its alternative state budgets, the Progress Party has tax reliefs of approximately EUR 20 million. DKK 25 billion. There are things that will make it easier to establish businesses in Norway. But it is also true that we have a debate in the Progress Party on the use of public funds. If he has looked closely at our program, it says, among other things. that we can imagine using some funds, pension funds, etc., public funds, to enter into business as an institutional investor. There will be a further debate towards the National Assembly of the Progress Party on this, and then we will see where we are going in concrete terms. What is important is that Norway does not come into behind, that we do not stand up and get no development, so that IT technology develops in Finland, Denmark and Sweden, and that we do not join this unique business cluster that is now being built up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e377	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e380	Actually, I think most things have been said in this case. All the visions of a center that means a lot internationally are repeated countless times from this pulpit, and it shouldn't be a big debate today. It should be such that the government got as free a hand as possible to complete the important negotiations that they are in the middle of, and then submit to the Grand Council's assessment of who is best able to create an ICT environment with infectious effects on Fornebu. I wonder, in fact, that the matter is not so simple. The largest and most serious problem is how large this center should or must be, and what it will cost as a result. It is obvious and to the extent confirmed by all involved that the area of the Government has been recommended as an IT centre is sufficient for all the functions that the IT centre should have. It's strange that the Labour Party wants the state to set up to give the most privileged housing, for social housing, it's not about. The students have been preserved before the area recommended by the Government. Why this new policy? Should the State now go in and charge costs for all pre-service construction projects? It is lucrative to build housing in the press area of Norway today. I have already understood that the country's largest party believes that it is the poor and the underprivileged that the state should obtain housing funding. Obviously, it's no longer like that. That the Progress Party should be on the same line is in complete disharmony with the philosophy of a free business and private ownership. Here, the Progress Party requires the state to enter and build luxury buildings on the Oslo inner file of a residential area. I'm sorry for a little side run, but maybe we should start building housing at Voss. There is a world-class IT company that is under strong expansion. It is a knowledge company with an international contact network that invests and invests in Nordic language technology and attracts employees from the world’s metropolises with knowledge that is not available in Norway. They actually have problems getting own housing for their highly qualified foreign employees, but they didn't think it was a government task. Even though the Christian People's Party is wondering about the desire of the plural to regulate in detail, we still agree that there is a need to create a centre that will contribute to the establishment of a new business. The government will, of course, do its best to achieve this. Innovation is important. We need to get education institutions, research and business in Norway to go together to put Norway in the front seat in the knowledge-based industry context. We do this both by creating a centre at Fornebu and by the fact that this centre works in an interaction with the research and teaching institutions, so that we also strengthen the region's competence in the field of IT. So we can do it within the area recommended by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e393	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e397	There is a lot to the right. But one of the strangest things is that the Labour Party should be responsible for giving us another debate on this matter in this Chamber. Already during the treatment in June, the Labour Party clearly said that it was urgent to start an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. We actually said that one should already have started from 1 January last year. Fornebu has now been shut down for a year, and there is not yet any business going on out there. This is so certainly my own not the Labour Party's responsibility! If there is something we have had to do with this matter from the very beginning, it is to press for a timetable. The last thing we did was we decided that the government would come back with a proposition by October 1. At that time, agreements were to be negotiated with the stakeholders, and an interested person would be recommended by the Government, so that the Storting could now have been with and evaluated what an interested person would be in there on a self-contained basis. When the representative Apelthun Seele expresses concern at the fact that we once again have a debate on this matter, she gets it directed at her own government. Elles comes Apelthun's seal with the same claim that, to the extent that Kongshaug was in, that the state should use money to build dwellings for the rich on Fornebu. That we take from the poor and give to the rich, I actually saw on text TV here one day that Apelthun Seele had expressed. But, dear, is one here speaking to the better-informed? What is in the government's arrangement is, as Apelthun Seal says, 316 dekar. Then one opens so that an interested person can buy the area around so that one gets a total area to the center of 500 dekars. That's what we're saying. Let the private stakeholders buy it. It's not the state that should spend a single penny on it. But we say that it is necessary that it be incorporated into the joint ownership company, into which the state should be involved to prevent the rich from speculating in the property project out there, and to ensure that we have a common governance with the area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e404	It's true that the Labour Party has meant that there's a hurry to get started. Now, when I have the floor, I would like to say that the Government and the Christian People's Party are very happy that one has had time until December 17 to conduct the negotiations, which has taken a little longer than one hoped for. It's because it's a complicated and big thing that's now come this way to the Storting. What I said was that it is regrettable that we have a big debate on a really very simple matter, which is that one should come back to the Stortinget with the final assessment – as one has to do. So to this with housing construction. It's the way in this country that it's mostly private that stands for housing construction. And the difference between the plurality and the Christian People's Party in this matter is that we want one to continue with it, and that the state should concentrate its money, its efforts within what is to build the country in the field of ICT. Building new businesses and creating innovation in Norway is more important than housing, on which a well-balanced investment can be made, but located outside an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e411	It's important to point out that we're now late for Fornebu. If the government had followed up, in October–November last year, everything should have been full construction and a fallow town on Fornebu. I saw the rapporteur in the municipality of Bærum, Reinsfelt, on TV the other day, and he lamented that because of the death of capital on Fornebu, the values of the hundred remiliants class disappeared – because of the training that has taken place in the case of Fornebu. But what's worse is that I feel that the government and government parties have no grip on our country's future industrial policy. A lot of things are getting confused and moving out, and we're not getting replaced. That's when I think it's a little strange that you want to put on a model on Fornebu that means as much as possible at the latest. And I want to address the dramatic debates that Telenor is actually in the middle of today, on future research and development in Norway. Does the representative Apelthun Seele believe that the dimension – i.e. the size – of Fornebu and the common ambitions here for the knowledge centre is irrelevant to Telenor's ability to succeed in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e418	Now I have to admit that things take time, but from that to saying that the government doesn't have a grip on the issues, is still going too far. A negotiator with two large, well-qualified stakeholders to build what will be the future knowledge center at Fornebu. And it's taken a little longer than a performer, but one is going -- not to get the least possible as late as possible, but to get the best possible center as fast as possible. The size of Fornebu is actually constant. Whether the state builds dwellings or other buildings, it will have little to say about the size of Fornebu. The area on which one is going to build dwellings is probably built at all locations, and that's what's the main cause of the Christian People's Party. The state doesn't have to take care of it to get building started. And I think Telenor gets the knowledge center that's needed to expand in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e425	The Christian People's Party's representative talks a lot about what the other parties do and stand for. I just have to say that I'm starting to get even more in doubt about what it is Christian People's Party gradually stands for in this matter. Do you mean the same thing today as we did today, for example, that the state should not enter this company, or is it such that one has radically turned around in this area? Here we see that the Labour Party and the Advance Party are once again running through their will. Among other things, we see that the IT company will have a significantly larger area than the government's recommendation. We also see that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party are opposed to the Government's proposal to establish two independent companies – IT and property development. My question must be, Where does this government really put its limit to what must be the greatest example of big business in the century? At the end of the day, I have registered that the government has talked a lot about the importance of taking away from the rich, both in connection with the campaign that has taken place and not least now in the budgetary negotiations. Is not the Christian People's Party now, in fact, a great driver for the true opposite, to add a considerable number of dollars to the rich in the hundreds of millions?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e434	The Christian People's Party is enough of the opinion that a knowledge center at Fornebu has such strong interests behind it that this would be an industry that would grow even without the state being strong inside. But we stick to the big decisions that are made, and we see that the state can contribute significant things when we now, as the Storting has decided, form a knowledge center at Fornebu where the state is an interested party. As a minority government, we naturally stick to a big decision. I also believe that the representative Ivar Kristiansen would do his party if they were once to come into government. We see it as important to get the country a knowledge centre on Fornebu that has an infectious effect on the regions, and we want to have so much on the steering wheel that this will happen, so that the regions of Norway, which have an important knowledge industry, will be able to grow and thrive and build the whole country. I think there was another question, but it was gone for me.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e441	Can the President delay the representative, Apelthun Seele, to present the minority proposal on page 4 of the vote?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e444	Yes, the minority proposal is presented here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e449	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e452	Its more articles, the more debates and the more rounds we have on this matter, the safer I become at the position the Right has taken on this matter. This is also true of the debate we have had today. The right note of the position we have today for treatment begins with the fact that the Right is still positive about the establishment of an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu – preferably with the content and interpretation of the vision presented by the rapporteur. It's good that there's at least one who's willing to take on an interpretation of these visions. Everything suggests that the industry we're talking about here is a forward-looking industry, an industry that will mean more and more to our nation as well. We already see from the figures that the contribution of the IT industry to GDP is increasing every year that goes. That's why Right now believes what we've meant every time we've dealt with this matter, that it's through the established educational and research institutions that state involvement is to be channelled. In addition, we will contribute to the establishment of incubator activities where companies, SIVA and SND cooperate. These activities think we should be added to the Terminal Building. The need for land in the terminal building is estimated by the institutions themselves to be 8 000 m2. The State area of a total of 200 deer regulated for commercial purposes, we believe, should still be sold in an open competition. We are still opponents of state ownership in the rest of the construction of commercial buildings, and of course in housing. We also believe that it seems strange that the majority would like the State to engage on the ownership of a company to realise visions that the responsible state council still does not know what it means. In fact, this majority is in favour of extending the country's involvement to an additional 165 million. kr by untying the 2001 State budget. The fact that the government has now taken the position of engaging on the owner's side does not make the matter any less strange. The right has always opposed state ownership of the companies that are going to realise these visions. And I have to be allowed to add for myself that I am becoming more and more convinced that it is the right thing to do. The position that the Right has today is the same position that the Government also had before the summer break. What's happened during the summer holidays, we can only imagine. What we see from the proposition we are dealing with today is that the government has given up the fight for state ownership and in the state budget has voluntarily proposed a budget of 260 million. kr for the purchase of shares in this company. The issue today is not whether it should or not come to an IT centre at Fornebu. None of the parties in the Trade Committee has been negative in its position to the establishment of such a centre. The whole issue is whether the State should engage on the owner's side and to what extent. Here there has been a majority, consisting of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, who have stood as tin soldiers, and who, for ever some unclear reason, want the state to enter heavily on the owner's side. And when I say "some vague" reasons, it's because the argument has varied somewhat as to why the state should be on the owner's side. We've seen that from today's contributions from Rudihagen and Hedstrom, that's not the same reason. At first, there was the need to be able to realise at all the vision that was the cause of the state's commitment. Gradually, it has been about controlling the development of Fornebu. It has been possible to sell out in the next round of winnings. In today’s setting, it is said that the state should be responsible for following up the vision – a vision that the Council of State has still not managed to reach – must be large enough to ensure proper control. With regard to the country's experience of governance through ownership, I think it's enough to refer to the Minister of Transport and his attempts to control where the mailboxes in this country are going – and it's a whole-time state company. We all remember how it went with the mailbox of Färvoll. I would like to congratulate the responsible State Council on the follow-up of the vision – a vision which, moreover, the Council of State in the proposition says about: ‘The content of the views of stakeholders appears unclear on some points. This applies, inter alia, to: non-conformisation.’» It's not necessarily that you get concrete when you're going to give 260 million. kr to share capital of a company. Understand the one who can. When the Right has been an opponent of state ownership in this business establishment, it has a very simple explanation. The current establishment, which we think is reasonable enough, could be realized by private investors using their own money to realize their visions. I do not have personal competence to say whether the projects in question are good or not – and will add: I doubt that there are others here who hold that competence – but a rule of thumb is at least that when you are willing to spend your own money, there is a good indicator that at least you have faith in what you are doing. In this case, it is primarily the desire to have someone else's money received. I also pay attention to the fact that this time it is Norway's most central land area and state ownership, which I think is otherwise unnecessary in order to realise the project. It makes no sense, in my opinion, for the companies in question, who are still involved in the fight to get the Fornebu, have to be judged as the most capitalist we have in this country. There are not exactly representatives of Poor Norway, as was the case here earlier today. A small indication of what I mean may be shown by the fact that one of the groups alone has holdings only in IT companies for a total of NOK 10 billion. The need for capital cannot be said to be the reason why the Progress Party and the Workers' Party are to have the State on the owner's side already at start-up. Also in the future, I believe that the state is so strongly inside the owner's side, will cause complications. I feel that the Progress Party and the Workers' Party are doing is creating a synthetic umbilical cord between Stortinget and Fornebu. It must, of course, be dug down and maintained so that the funds can be restored in the future. I understand that private investors want the state on the owner's side. Who will not join the company with Uncle Screw? An owner who, in addition to allocating research funds, study places, SND funds and SIVA funds, is not a stupid partner to have. That there will be role conflicts in the future should not be a great imagination to understand. With the State which owns universities and higher education institutions and the State which owns such companies, decisions could be taken from motives other than where they should be placed in relation to where they are best. It will be the ownership that makes you want to be dragged and sucked into this umbilical cord. I have to say, when, in a row, the case-rapporteur said that he did not know the Øresund project enough, that it has been used about that and that as an example of how this has been done in other countries – the Swedish and Danish states are thus not inside the owner’s side. It should be done in Norway as it is in the United States, as it is in Øresund; it is the established public institutions for research and education that conclude agreements with these IT environments because they feel that it is what they get the most for. Finally, a few words about what has happened in the committee. Now it's like this, as Apelthun Seele explained in his post, that this government has great training in swallowing camels. Whatever size and stiffness they slip down. This camel, however, became too big. The government chose to put its foot down, and a third of the camel was made. A note was now accepted, the government has to base the proposition that comes on 17 December, that there is a majority in the Stortning to expand the share capital by 165 million. kr, and to the extent that the Bondevik government would deliver St.prp. No 1 next year, I'm assuming that the Council of State of Davøy, if she's still the Council of State, will have a post 90 where it says 165 million. kr. Then the government can say that they have had to comply with the wishes of the majority of the population, they have not wanted to challenge the Storting in the matter. I think it's weird. I take up the Right's proposal, which I personally consider to be the most definitely best in the position we have today for treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e495	The President has noticed that Mr. Gabrielsen has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e501	It is not new that the representative Gabrielsen is trying to make fun of others and others. There's a form in this room that some people like to use, and I don't mind that a person argues that way. But what still surprises me is that those who think they're the industry's leading representatives in this room, that is, they're from the Right, until they don't listen to what the business community in our country thinks it's necessary. It's not a wild idea – as one could get the impression from the representative Gabrielsen – when the Labour Party believes that there is a need for the state and Norwegian business community to partner to bring us through the current phase, the transition from the industrial community to the knowledge society. Because it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about more or less. In other words, it will leave the representative of Gabrielsen, as a representative of the leading business party, in their own eyes, to the business community entirely on their own, despite the fact that they are asking for participation. I just note that this is the way it is. It is no good that the representative Gabrielsen and Right here have not changed their view in two years. That's right -- they mean the same thing now that they've been saying all along, that the state is going to do this with fire brigade. We believe that we should be involved in helping Norwegian business through the structural change that we all see together, and I am absolutely sure that it is both right and necessary. Can the representative Gabrielsen tell me and the others here in the room what Right will contribute to this change in structure?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e512	The industry has not requested state ownership, nor in Fornebu. I have not heard such reasoning, outside the completely narrow lines, in this area. That the state is a natural contributor to the establishment of a centre on Fornebu, there is a broad consensus on that. That's what the setting says, as St.meld suggests. No 13, which we treated in ours, to what extent and how this should be done. That is the broad consensus. What's my concern, and what's been up to you on the Right, is that we're not going to get involved on the owner's side, with the reasons I've given myself. And when it comes to – as was said – bringing us through the phase we're in now, where we're going to move from industrial society to something completely different, it sounds like it's happening at twelve New Year's Eve. 50 pst. Norwegian industry is owned by the State. We can get up to 100 pst. And I understand that the Workers' Party has an ambition to at least raise it over these 50 pst. I cannot see with my best will that those places where one has tried to increase the state's ownership to somewhere between 50 pst. And 100 pst., it's been successful. This does not mean that public and business do not have to go together in partnership – call it what you want – in order to develop projects. But on the owner’s side – we have state institutions to take care of the professional interests associated with such an IT centre. It's our research institutions, our colleges and our universities. They have shown that they have succeeded in doing so in other countries that have established IT and knowledge centres. I think the Norwegian institutions have strength, interest and strength to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e521	In this case, through a series of debates, we have been shown that the Right suffers from state terror, and they must be allowed to do so. The progress party has taken a different position. We believe that a state participation in Fornebu in the plans and together with private investors is an investment to develop new knowledge and new businesses in Norway. But it's still clear that we want to have a chance that the state can sell out in whole or in part in a while. Then there may also be great values to pick up, by giving a good return to the taxpayers. What's happening here in Norway is not unique, I would say. In the United States and within the EU, the country often has a contributing and facilitating role. We see it in knowledge centers, not only in Silicon Valley, which is most famous, but also in Austin, Texas, Seattle, and very many other places. In fact, this is not new in Norway because of a market liberalist approach. We know that Schweigaard, Stang and Broch in the middle of the last century talked about the Norwegian system. It was thought that the state should have an orderly task when major investments were to be made in rail, telecommunications, etc. And they were just, part of them, ideologists for the Right when the Right became established something later. So my question to Gabrielsen's representative is, what makes the Right think that Norwegian companies, as the only ones in our part of the world, can develop, finance and implement this type of activity without the state facilitating the situation? This is in a new area, the high-tech area, and this centre will become a leading centre in Europe in a few years.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e530	I have to say I want to start with the saying that you have to hear a lot before the ears fall off, when Hedstrom ends with a question about how in all the world's kingdom you're going to get something happening at Fornebu if the state doesn't go into this. I see that the President is following very closely today, and I understand that very well. When it's referred to Schweigaard and Stang, I have to say that now I have just read a «murstone» about our struggles in the 1800s in connection with the development of the industrial revolution etc. When you think about the people who walked around in threshing shoes and wadmel pants here in the middle of the 1800s, in an official state ruled by 1,000 people, where Schweigaard and Stang so needed public intervention and inciting measures so that also the housekeeper state of Norway would get a bone into the industrial environment that English and other Europeans had gone before, I think maybe the picture is a little bad compared to today. That's now on the threshold of the next millennium. We go – so to speak – neither in threshing shoes nor in cotton pants technologically in relation to what they do in the rest of the Western world, and in this way we do not need more State involvement here than they do, for example. in Øresund. A bit of the argument for state ownership is that we have the opportunity to sell out and go out with big winnings. Yes, it must mean that the plot we sell has an excessively low entry price if it is such that it is obvious that after a short time you will be able to collect large profits. Either Hedstrom must know things that we don't know, or the plot must be too low a price, for anyone who buys a plot at market price, buys the land at the price that the market assumes is value, and where the value acquisition after one, two, three, five or ten years is reflected. This is so that one would wish that Schweigaard and Stang had been present, President!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e537	It is the task of the President to follow closely – even in terms of time, sir. Gabrielsen!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e540	We couldn't get into the situation that Gabrielsen's representative escaped with two lines, one from my side. I'm a little surprised when the representative Gabrielsen says that the state should be involved, but not on the owner's side. The question remains for me: is it the case that the representative Gabrielsen likes to see the state support direct transfers to the private people who are going to establish themselves out there, or is it in another way he thinks the state should be involved? Is it only in the case of research and education? Is incubator business going to go on its own, or is the state going to help bring forward a new product? The representative Gabrielsen should know that helping new products from the idea to a finished product, and not least a product that the consumer wants, is the most difficult thing in this country, because one does not have access to that type of risk capital. It's one of the sides that the Labour Party believes that the state should be involved and facilitate by participating in this ownership. I can't believe it's going to conflict with Right's policy in this area, but it makes sense. I think this has become a principle of the right. They must in death and life disagree with the plurality of this matter, and it will make them happy to be in the future as well. Fortunately, many of us are enough to make sure that there will be an IT and knowledge center of international format at Fornebu.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e547	No, it's not that the Right of Death and Life should disagree with the majority, but now it's not that the only blessing in the world is to vote with the majority at all times. With regard to direct support, Opseth Højre's profile in this area is so well-known that he knows that Højre's policy in the field of business is essentially based on general framework conditions that allow the business we have to be as well equipped as possible to meet the future, and not that one should add to a policy that is such as to require the most selective action from the state when things go wrong, so that governments or individual councils can lift the mutilation and, as well, show that they have done something. We see that in the budgetary agreement that we have now. It was referred by the rapporteur to one of the industries that has really gone well in this country, namely the maritime industry. We see in the budgetary agreement that we are now reducing the possibility of continuing, by increasing the tax rate in perhaps one of the most successful food clusters we have in this country. So to this by helping out new products. We have established arrangements that are general, valid from Lindesnes to Nordkapp, for people who have ideas and who want to complete a product and get into the market. We have it through SND, we have it through several other institutions. And then to this with access to venture capital. I am never in doubt that any serious project – and I consider the two available as two very serious and probably well-thought-out projects – will have no problem filling up with the necessary risk capital, i.e. share capital. I think that'll be the smallest piece of art. I would like to point out again that one of the actors here actually has holdings of NOK 10 billion in this industry already, so I would assume that one could have managed to cough up the extra 200-300 million for a completely private plant.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e560	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e563	Let me first say a little about a line exchange like the representative Hedstrøm and I had. Hedstrom then gave some examples of future visions in this project, and said that one is in line to participate in this with electronic classrooms. What I've been told is that the corporate university, which is one of the public institutions where it is relevant to enter into any activity, is not involved in this project because they believe that the technology here is passé. They choose a different technological solution from the one in the electronic classroom, which Hedstrom made an important issue. The entire Fornebu project is the 1950's industrial travel development carried over in the 1990's, with a new type of activity, new type of technology, new type of industry. In fact, there are no educational policy arguments for the majority’s position. Nor are there any arguments for extending the proposed area beyond the 316 targets. To the extent that there are arguments for the majority’s suspension, they are of a business-economic nature for the grouping or groupings to be developed at Fornebu. The business economic arguments are linked to the opportunities to make money on housing in Norway’s most attractive area — and we are not talking about social housing. There's a lot of profit in this area. The multiplicity setting is revealing because it shows that this, which could have been a matter of commercial policy, has become a housing construction case. The proposal mentions some measures that could contribute in the field of research and education policy, which have not even been commented on in the majority voting. This applies, inter alia, to: public educational institutions — educational institutions where we could have had a certain opportunity to influence both localisation and investment. What may be relevant at Fornebu is a research quality development centre. This is mentioned in the Business University, referred to as continuing training offers established in cooperation between, among others. SINTEF and the University of Oslo. They do not intend to add any of their basic education to the Fornebu area. What will be established there, if any, are continuing training institutions which, over a five-year period, can employ between 20 and 30 people, who are mainly to communicate. They shall not produce education or research, but they shall communicate it. They shall place on the market and shall address competence measures against any undertaking. In addition, the Network University is mentioned in the Proposition. Here we talk about cooperation between some colleges – the University of Bergen is also involved. Individual higher education institutions provide educational services and provide educational services — and they will continue to do so. What may also be relevant in the Fornebu area, as I understand it, is to establish a smaller offer where one is to sell his educational services to the market in the eastern region. In the case of public education institutions, colleges and universities, there are no plans to provide a basis for believing that Fornebu can become a heavy and important knowledge centre. It's going to be wrong, as I've said several times, to make this the most important field of business development because we have good business parks, we have good environments associated with the established universities. The serious thing about this is that, as a whole, when we focus like this on the Fornebu area, we're going to be able to weaken the environments that we've established.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e583	For the Left, this case is within a good track, with open competition and with the leaders of the Stortinget in the past. The left shares the vision of an international IT and knowledge centre that cooperates closely with existing Norwegian knowledge environments and is intended to contribute to good regional development in the field of ICT. There are significantly different premises in this now than it was when there was only one interested person inside the picture. As the representative of Apelthun Seele pointed out, there should be no need for new disputes in this matter on this occasion. The government, at the Ministry of Labour and Administration, is in the final phase of negotiations, with two groupings. The matter is about getting the time you need in this final phase, within the premise the Storting has previously decided. Nevertheless, the Workers' Party and the Advance Party do not have the power to push forward what may be perceived as a game this time either. For the Left, it is important that the rules of the game are so clear that they cannot be seen as an advantage to one of the remaining two stakeholders. If it had been like this, as was said so unequivocally in the previous round, that these parties too want a real and fair competition for the IT centre at Fornebu, they could have let the matter pass this time without any more inconvenience. But no. Again, in the opinion of the Left, the case tends to be against the big business and an untimely interference in ongoing negotiations. I would like to remind you of the speech of the Grand President at the autumn royal dinner and her words about unnecessary detailed management by Stortinget. It is particularly strange from the Workers' Party, which has experience of being in government, and which aims to regain government power. In the case of top-level intervention, the very large scandal was prevented in the form of decisions. Thus, the Government still has the room for action to conclude the negotiations with the dignity required by the case. It is absolutely essential that any party to the negotiations be able to have full confidence that the Government will take sole responsibility for taking its position. This trust also has the Left. It applies to this government and to other governments that should have power in similar matters. Despite the numerous attempts at obstruction in this matter, the Government has waged a tough fight to get this case into the right track, with openness, democracy and real competition and in close interaction with the established educational and research institutions in the country. The matter has therefore been dealt with in the course it should have. That's left-wing satisfaction. And then it finally turns out, on a case-by-case basis, who is most capable of overcoming the expansion. It is pathetic when the majority of committees try to create the impression that the implementation of the vision of an international format IT centre at Fornebu depends on the state putting values into residential building on the country's most attractive plots. It's not like that, and it's all able to see, even the committee majority if they want to. The professional investigation carried out through the Spøtvoll range clearly showed that the 316 dean over which the State operates is a sufficient area for an IT centre. This also confirms the majority, since the enlarged area is therefore desired to be used for housing purposes with state subsidies. The left is very satisfied with the government's rigour in this matter, and we have full confidence that it is intact even in the final phase of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e603	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e606	The representative of Kongshaug was once again in that there was to be no need for a debate now, and the luck in Kongshaug's eyes is that the government is standing straight in this matter. The majority of the population has already from the first time we have dealt with this matter said that a proper bet is needed out there when it applies to the area. We said early that the state would go in with its own property as part of a joint ownership company out there. This has been in the great majority of cases for a long time now. One would expect a minority government, as the representative Apelthun Sæle said, to comply, of course, with the growing majority of people and to have put this matter into practice within the leadership of the majority of people who grew up all the time. The fact that the government is trying to strangle the concept over and over again in relation to the majority of the population has said is one of the main reasons why we have had to do a rematch over and over again, and that's one of the main reasons why it's been going on for so long. Minority says a part of the setting in which I'm so agreeable to the heart. When it comes to the selection of stakeholders, they say: ‘These members consider that individual aspects of stakeholders’ offers, such as international contacts, cannot be of decisive importance alone.’ That's right. The majority of the committee has outlined a number of factors that need to be considered when selecting stakeholders. However, the minority also says that this ‘does not need to be treated as a purely property project’ and that the majority’s approach is contrary to a state-owned project thinking. That's the opposite. We accept that it is a private interested party that in that case must acquire the area around itself, but we assume that it should be incorporated into the common ownership precisely to prevent parts of an IT and knowledge centre from becoming a purely property project.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e620	I'm recording what the representative Rudihagen just said. I could not see any clear questions for myself, but I would like to comment on what he was talking about. Differences in attitudes are precisely related to the need for land and to the area for which it is to be used. It is also such that it is the work of professional groups that has provided the basis for the spatial need assessment. Here I refer to the report of the Spøtvoll Committee and its recommendation on the area size of an IT and knowledge centre. It is said that the area set aside by the Government is sufficient to safeguard the interests of developing business, research, further development of IT and incubator activities. Both the ITF and the Fornebu AS Network assume that 270 dekar are sufficient for education, research, incubator and business. That's what they say. But then it is desirable from one of the parties with a dwelling area where it can be built between 1000 and 2000 dwellings, and that it should also be part of the concept. There's a deep disagreement between the Left. The left disagrees that one should go in with state resources to realize just that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e627	It is quite interesting to listen to the representative of Kongshaug in this matter, and the opinions he expresses, I think are quite consistent with the positions and opinions of the Right in this matter. However, I believe that this matter has gradually developed, there must be some kind of consolation for the Left that there is a new government council that has taken over the staf stick, and that is set to the rather difficult task of driving this into goal. But I have seen that the representative of Kongshaug in the evening post believes that what the Labour Party is doing in this matter is the very opposite of what the Labour Party claims to have as its goal in the budget negotiations, namely to take away from the rich. I quote from the Evening Post, where the representative Kongshaug says: ‘This is a scandal. Think about what those 165 million could have been spent on in the districts. This is redistribution to the rich and does not exactly strengthen the profile of the Workers' Party.» Yes, I fully agree with what the representative, Mr. Kongshaug, has said, and I assume that he is not mistaken at all. Just think about what could have been done with an alternative of 425 million. kr! So my question to Kongshaug's representative is: Does the representative still think that this is a scandal, or is it such that the scandal will be somewhat less now that the government parties are forced to be on the road?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e641	It is the case that a change of department has been made in the area of responsibility in this matter, but I am proud that we have had government councils that have been given important leadership in the matter of democracy, transparency and fair competition. It has been well taken care of so far, and we also know that will be taken care of in the continuation. So it's going to be put up by the Government and the Centre that one should go into a company with funds to participate and influence the strategy and policy thinking regarding the development of ICT, as far as the relationship between the Fornebu Centre and regional colleges, universities and other environments is concerned. We're also willing to go into a company with funds to be involved and to keep our hands on the wheel when it comes to developments in such an important area, which many people have been involved in here. But the remarkable thing in this case is that the central parties have an attitude that is still in the centre, but it is in the centre between the Right and the Advance Party/Work Party. There's another sign that here it's possible to find good solutions through center options, even though there's a little bit of unusual flanks here. With regard to the specific question, I would like to say that I am still saying that it is unnecessary to use funds in this order of 165 million. kr, in a property company which intends to build partly dwellings on Fornebu. That money could have been better spent in other areas of society.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e650	The representative Kongshaug misses my questions. It wasn't time for them, so we could get them now. The representative of Kongshaug said in his speech that the state went in and subsidized some private stakeholders at Fornebu who might not have needed it, and that the 165 million. kr, which is mentioned before, could be used for other purposes. The fact is that after our arrangement, the state is going to enter a company with an inlay of its property at Fornebu, an area that everyone claims will get a huge increase in value. In other words, if you were to think commercially from the state's side, which is not the primary one, it probably wouldn't be a bad business, because it's likely to be an increase in value that the state can take out at a later date. Is there any kind of subsidisation of the private stakeholders out there? The second relates to the area. We have previously pointed out the possibilities Norway has with a real commitment to Fornebu, the ability to attract international expertise, international IT companies that can establish business there, and the efforts they have seen both when it comes to getting an incubator environment and a research and education environment, and when it comes to the overall environment, including housing and other facilities for researchers and others who are going to be there. In line with what the Left has said all along, that we should have an internationally competitive centre, shall we not then see that the representative of Kongshaug has to bet as ambitiously as the plural here adds?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e659	I must be allowed to admit to the representative Rudihagen that it will be a little easier to answer when you have received the question, so I will try it in this round. It's about, according to the representative Rudihagen, that one goes in with a deposit, a grant, corresponding to the values that are there, and that's right. But the values are there anyway, and those values can of course be transferred to other funds, money, which can then be used in other areas, so it doesn't have any purpose to discuss form or type of values. What we clearly disagree on is whether or not to use state resources to enter a property company to build between 1000 and 2000 dwellings. I would also like to stress that in the concept that is already there, there is an opportunity to build approx. 30 homes and 200 student cabins. It's pointed out that this is important for the overall environment, and I can't understand that there's any deterioration in the overall environment of someone who wants to establish themselves on Fornebu, has another body, institution, to turn to than the joint property company when you're going to get housing on Fornebu. But that's where we essentially disagree, and it also shows the matter so far.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e668	The cord shift has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e673	In this case, it is sad to ask whether some key actors have really helped to find solutions or whether they have been part of the problem. In my view, it is quite alarming that such a question should be raised in a matter of such importance to the whole country. What has happened since a majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, in the context of the 1998 budget, came together to realise the vision of an internationally attractive IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu, can provide the basis for many reflections. I'll leave that, and just remind you that today's municipal minister was one of the most active actors behind the decision that started it all. In the course, the center parties got cold feet and jumped off, the vision became too big and difficult to carry forward. That the Progress Party turned around and supported the Workers' Party was also cynically exploited in party politics, as if it were expected that the Workers' Party would change its view in a specific individual matter simply because a particular party changed its mind and supported us. And the most cynical use of this was made in the election campaign of the parties that, for a period, based their entire economic policy and government on precisely the Progress Party. The working party has also been charged with wanting to put billions in the pocket of a named shipowner. However, this is the only way to speak when there are no factual arguments. A quotation of unknown origin for me fits well, namely: then you'll have a sense of whose madness everyone can understand. This form of vulgarization was passed on in today's debate by the representative Gabrielsen from the Right. It seems to me that it is more important for the Government to prevent a particular interest group from reaching out with their concept than to follow up the premises made by the Stortinget. I'm thinking about the limitation of the area of 316 dekar, which is the area that the state currently has at its disposal for such a center. But what the state is doing today must not be allowed to determine developments in the IT sector here in the country. It's going to be too short-sighted. Regional policy arguments have also been and are still being used against the views of the Labour Party. It was claimed, among other things, that: that an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu will vacuum the districts of competence. In my view, there is no coverage for such a claim. Moreover, credibility is weakened when those who use the argument also want a center. Of course, that some people with IT skills may move to Oslo and Fornebu should not be excluded, but it would be too short-sighted to allow such a risk to determine the size and international attractiveness of the centre. Because it's not that by reducing the number of jobs in Fornebu, we avoid moving. In addition, the government will also want the centre to become a real centre of gravity. It even says that the center may well be larger than 316, but in that case the stakeholders themselves need to obtain additional space, which in itself may be OK enough. However, the government wants the new areas to be owned by a new company in which the State should not have the power to govern as a joint owner. What's the greatest danger is that we get a center that won't be able to compete at the international level. In this way, we risk not being able to keep up with development, not getting the top skills the country needs, and thus not getting sufficient competence to add to District Norway. Should we also find ourselves in a situation where, through their partnership, governments do not have real control over content and development, we have, in truth, played the cards poorly. As I see it, it is only as active co-players that state authorities can ensure that the centre becomes an engine for renewal for the whole country, and that the necessary interaction and balance between research, education and business is ensured for the future. It will also be a prerequisite for getting the desired bud shooting out in the regions to strengthen and develop the environments that we already have and can get elsewhere in the country. In order to ensure the State’s necessary and overall governance options, the State must be heavy on its ownership. Nor should an ownership structure be created that both weakens the potential government gains and makes public governance impossible. The multiplicity position of a single company is thus reassuring. Thus, the state also assumes the social responsibility it must include with the business community. It really surprises me that especially the center parts take on this particular ratio so easily. In my view, a half-hearted effort, as the Government adds, will be the worst thing we can do, both district, business and education policy. Then we can get a center that's heavy enough to draw competence from District Norway, but too crazy and not attractive to feed today's environments and businesses, both centrally and regionally, what the future will require.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e694	There has been a broad political consensus in the EEA on the need to establish a centre which, through an interaction between research, education and business, will contribute to the creation of new business. The size has not previously said that extensive housing should be included as part of the IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. The government has taken this into account for its work. The primary objective of the Government is to establish an internationally competitive IT and knowledge centre, while safeguarding the best interests of the State. It is politically important for the Government that the Centre should operate in an interplay that strengthens the regions. I am pleased that the Business Committee supports the Government's proposal to conclude negotiations with both of the two stakeholders and to present the outcome of the negotiations to the Stortinget in a proposition on 17 December this year. It is important that the State facilitates the establishment of new business activities related to the Centre through close interaction between business, research and education. In my opinion, it is essential to ensure that the majority of the state cash deposit is used to realise the vision of the IT and knowledge centre. Furthermore, it is important to ensure that the State has real influence in policy-making bodies both in the short and long term. I am pleased that the majority are also concerned about this, and refer in particular to paragraph 2 of the Committee's recommendation, where they ask the Government to place the decisive emphasis on the ability of the joint ownership company to realise the vision. The issue of disagreement is whether, through its financial involvement in the IT and knowledge centre, the country should contribute to extensive housing construction on Fornebu. I note that the majority of the Business Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, believes that the State should contribute to the building of housing. They do so by saying that they have already been able to conclude, before the end of the negotiations, that the overall concept is strengthened by a solution of approx. 500 deacons. The consequence of the majority of opinions is that the State will contribute to the construction of a total of 140 000 m2 of housing in an area that is considered to be very attractive to private stakeholders. I want the interested party chosen by the state to be primarily concerned with developing the IT and knowledge centre, and not to be overly concerned with developing a property company. Therefore, the crucial factor for the choice of the interested party should be based on an overall assessment of the content of the concepts, and in particular the content aimed at fulfilling the vision. It could not be the size of the area itself that will decide the case, especially because the majority's wish for approx. 500 dekars are primarily located in an approximate triple of the housing stock in what should be an IT and knowledge centre. These dwellings will still come, regardless of the participation of the State. I have noticed the majority's wish to expand the state's capital deposits by 165 million. 2001 kr. I read the majority comment on increased capital deposits as being valid for an area solution of about approx. 500 deacons. In this respect, I would like to stress that the state has no control over such a large area. The acquisition of land in excess of 316 dean for the use of the IT and knowledge centre is subject to the willingness of the Municipality of Oslo to dispose of additional land for a joint company between the State and the private sector. It is therefore highly uncertain how large an area in excess of 316 covers it is possible to achieve at all. An alternative to voluntary scheme with the Municipality of Oslo is state regulation, but this is not affected in the position of the Business Committee. It is therefore important that the interested party submits, in the first place, sustainable economic and professional plans in an area of 316 dekar. The area of the IT and knowledge centre beyond this must remain at the level of ambition of the stakeholders until additional areas are actually created. I understand the majority that it should be an ambition for the common company to work to provide an area of approximately. 500 decaries for the IT and knowledge centre, if possible, or, as the representative Rudihagen himself formulated it earlier today, the scheme should not be closed in order for the State to enter into a larger overall concept. On 17 December the Government will present the Stortinget with the negotiated agreements and make recommendations on the choice of the interested party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e713	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e717	I think I have to underline a little bit of the plural attitude to what the Council of State, Mr. Davøy, was last in. It must be up to the selected interested party to obtain the remaining area between 316 pieces and up to 500 pieces. What we underline is that if that happens, it should be added to a joint ownership company, based on the reasoning that we have previously drawn up and that we do not need to repeat now. I would like to ask the Swedish Council of State Davøy about the progress in this matter. As I've said before, it's been a year since Fornebu joined as an aerodrome. The size of the study in June 1998 indicated that the activity at the knowledge centre should be able to start as early as 1 January 1999. Earlier today, reference was made to the sayings of Reinsfeld, who was supposed to have stated in a daily report that the loss of income, i.e. the absence of rents and halls, and likein's expenses in relation to buildings etc., is now a loss for the state of several hundred million dollars. I would like to ask the Council of State Davøy if it agrees with this, and if the Ministry of Labour and Administration has estimated how much money the government has lost on these delays. And can we now be assured that the state will continue to come to an end in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e728	First, the progress of the case. This is no simple matter. There has been a complicated case, where we have been dependent on a lot of different stakeholders; both the municipality of Bærum, the municipality of Oslo and the state are involved, and other stakeholders to the properties, among others. SAS. We have also had to wait for Municipal Council level 2 in Bærum before we could start the tariff topic. And after the tariff conference had taken place this summer, we really started the negotiations. Then it turns out three days before the first round of negotiations is over, that two of the stakeholders are coming together, which also some in Stortinget thought was very happy. In any case, the majority of the business committee felt that it was wise for several to join forces. All these conditions have caused us to have had some delays – that's right. Nevertheless, I would like to say that I am happy that the government has had the time to negotiate further. We have had complicated negotiations, and we still have complicated negotiations in progress. These are actually big state values that we're talking about here. We must have the necessary time, and as the responsible state council, I am pleased that we have got it. When it comes to the question of land losses, I haven't done a special calculation of whether we've lost anything, but I don't think we have, for the areas out there are in use, and there are incomes associated with the use of those areas. Among other things, I mention: the terminal building.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e741	On the part of the Government, Fornebu is constantly being targeted as a property project. It focuses on the housing part, and the housing part is important, but the 30 dwellings and 200 student mortgages that are added to the bill will not be able to meet the needs that exist out there in any way. Maybe we'll get 2,000 researchers to Fornebu from elsewhere in the world, and those who are so attractive internationally will not settle down there if they don't get modern facilities and service institutions, and there are other opportunities to deal with this with homes. Back to the arrangement for Fornebu and the tenacity we have experienced. It's actually so that we could have started a lot earlier. The size of the project in June 1998 indicated that the activities of the knowledge centre should be able to start as early as 1 January 1999. Then we should have construction, and everything should have been going on. We're a little worried – at least the majority is – that it's going to take even longer, so we're going to be in a backyard competitive position. Can the Council of States now guarantee that the negotiations will be concluded in line with the response we received from the Department on this, i.e. in two or three weeks, and that we can get a proposition from the Government the current year before the Storting goes apart?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e748	The government's point of paying so much attention to the discussion of housing and living space is precisely what has been said in the past by several people, that these dwellings are still coming. We have a regulatory plan, for which the municipality of Bærum is responsible, for which parts of the area of Fornebu are built on residential land, so that these dwellings come anyway. It's about how much is going to or is not going to enter a joint property company, and from the government's side, we don't want to go primarily into a profit-making property company. What really matters is that the state receives real control of the content of the IT centre through the operationalisation of the visions here. That's what's most important to us. I disagree with the representative Hedstrøm that we have been eager by the Government. We work as fast as we can and as best we can. There are many stakeholders in the case, and we have needed the time that has now passed. With regard to the last question, there is nothing today that suggests that we should not be able to finish until December 17th with this matter, and I feel that we have obtained the necessary powers from Stortinget to negotiate further with both stakeholders.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e757	One thing that struck me when the Council of State of Davøy had the word was that at one point I must give the Advance Party and the Workers' Party the right: they have in some way meant the same thing all along. The government has contributed stiff-legged and hard-haired all the way, and you can wonder why you don't just recognize it and get rid of the discomforts. You have to be a little impressed too, because first we have had a couple of years with the State Council Sponheim where he has been kind of dominated here in the Stortinge in this matter through four, five, six rounds, and then the State Council has now taken over that staf stick, and she will probably also get a certain number of rounds with this matter. I think councillor Davøy is a brave ant, and her problematization around why the state should not engage in housing, I fully share. Why you have to build 1,400 apartments of 100 m2 out there under state control, you can wonder. Now, however, it's the majority that stands by, and this majority is conscious of it. There are two important points in the position we have today, and my question to the Council of State is whether in the negotiations that are due to take place in November and December, she is prepared to take the signals contained in the majority's remarks, that an additional 165 million will be allocated to the next year. kr in State share capital. Would there have been any other reality if this had been a decision? I see from the newspapers last Friday that it was such that it was first inside as in the form of a decision, but that the government did not accept it, and my question is so far why. Is it the case that the Council of State will take into account in the further negotiations that the area is increased from 316 to 505 dekar?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e769	It's true, as Gabrielsen's representative says, that the majority is composed. We have a minority government, and it is also true that the government has had to adapt, and has adapted, the majority in this matter. Something else would be unheard of when the majority of the Storting has decided what it has previously decided in this case. Otherwise, I'm glad I could impress you a little bit, because at least we agree with Gabrielsen's representative in terms of housing. When it comes to the relationship and the difference between a decision and a remark, I expect that the representative Gabrielsen might have responded better than I can. But in the further negotiations, I, of course, as the Council of State, would like to inform the negotiating delegation of the decisions taken in the Stortinget and also to draw up the signals given in the remarks in the vote. However, when said, there is no doubt that a new possible decision will be taken on the use of the 165 million. kr next year. There will not be a decision in the Stortinget today. The last thing I want to say is that for me, it's actually the whole, the total concept, in what the two stakeholders come up with, is the most important thing. It might also be able to crystallize itself in different economic sizes, but it'll only be the next round in the Biggest show.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e783	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e786	The IT revolution has become a revolution. But few have understood that one of the hallmarks of the revolution is that it changes the existing – which will require new institutions, new instruments and new political solutions. The current driving force of the epoch shift are industries and enterprises that have taken on new technological and organisational principles. A challenge all developed countries now share is to learn how to take advantage of the new markets and technologies to create new enterprises and new profitable jobs. In such an epoch shift, the state must play a greater and more important role than at a time when developments are going on more smoothly. Although Norway has a strong economy, we are not able to facilitate the structural crisis we are now seeing in much of the Norwegian business world. Enterprise policy must now, as before, be based on Norway’s main competitive advantage. In the industrial era, these were energy and raw materials. In the future, we must assert ourselves in international competition for knowledge capital. Norway’s main competitive advantage will be the fact that the Norwegian population is an advanced and homogeneous market, requiring new solutions and therefore a product. Norway is and will be able to become between the leading nations using online solutions in all parts of society. The industrial challenge for Norway is to take advantage of this advantage, but it requires that we use this in our marketing, and that we can offer attractive and internationally competitive professional environments. An internationally competitive IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu must look into such a context. State involvement in this project is only fair and reasonable if, as a nation, we want to speed up the development of new industries. Government-private partnerships are needed if one wants to link the lack of new ideas and research results to a stronger and much more diverse venture capital market. I'm glad that it's private who wants to put on the elevator it's getting new product or services. It should just be lacking that the state does not participate with gravity. Even in the United States, one sees that the state plays an important role as initiator of project-based research and in transforming ideas into value-creating business. I have to admit that I have difficulty understanding why the Government, with the Minister of Industry at the head, puts so much emphasis on preventing a strong IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. To create a strong wheel, you must have a strong hub, which can bear and support what happens on the outer edge of the wheel. It is this hub that the IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu should be for the many IT businesses around the country. So I'm not quite sure if I'm going to see it as positive or negative that the Minister of Economic Affairs is not present today in handling this case. Rightly, it's the Minister of Administration's proposition we're dealing with, but there's no particular doubt that this is a matter of industrial policy first and foremost. I had therefore seen it as natural that the Minister of Industry had also taken part. But the most important thing is that the Minister of Labour and Administration now takes note of what the majority in this Chamber has been doing for almost two years. The government has tried to reverse it up to several times, but the majority have remained at the same position. I hope now that the Government takes the Storting seriously, so that we don't get even a rematch.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e799	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 325]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e813	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 35 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 5 minutes, Progress Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party, Center Party and Left together 10 minutes, Right 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e822	St. pp. No 4 On the financing of public information actions in connection with the 2000 problem, a proposal for a five-billion-dollar grant is included. to finance public information actions. Such a promise is the end of the nutrition committee. The Committee agrees that it is important for sober and objective public information to create security for people. Studies also show such a need for information. Now it's going to be equal to 55 million. kr for action under Action 2000. The Action 2000 project will contribute to the dissemination of information, training and competences, with a particular focus on municipalities and small and medium-sized enterprises, and will be a driving force in the year 2000 work. For some reason, the mandate of Action 2000 does not include this type of public information measure, and therefore there is no set of resources for such action. One has, among other things: Here in the Storting region, very busy with the 2000 problem, a problem arising from the abnormality of computer functions in the transition from 1999 to 2000, a problem which, in the worst case, could lead to systems failing to function, and serious societal and economic consequences could arise. It has therefore been and is necessary for the Government to have a responsibility for an approach to address this problem as best of advice, in the state administration, in the municipal sector, in the private sector and when it involves a number of societally critical tasks within sectors such as the environment. power supply, mail and telecommunications, water supply, sewerage, banking and finance, health, transport, pertroleum, defence, nuclear security, police, rescue services, civil defence, fire, broadcasting, etc. The number of these critical sectors that I chose to calculate shows the extent of the risk and the need for active prevention of good security measures. In the government’s 2000 statement – the third in line – on 4 October, the government’s assessment is that the management of the year 2000 problem is well established. But there are a few exceptions: in some municipalities, one does not come far with the work. There are still some business leaders who have not taken the 2000 problem sufficiently seriously. There is a need for specific follow-up within the water and sewerage sectors and the health sector. It shows that the Government and Action 2000 must follow this closely up the time we now have left until the turn of the year. With this I will advise Stortinget to support the committee setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e837	There are still signs through the media that some municipalities and businesses have not taken the 2000 problems seriously enough. In some cases, it may be said that data security is being ignored. This means focusing both on information and on concrete actions and their implementation. It is high time that these problems were taken seriously. In this area, the Progress Party also agrees that it is a public task to do what can be done to minimise the potential for problems that may arise. There is no authority other than the state, with a great government, that is responsible for the whole of society. It does not help to say that the responsibility lies in the individual enterprise, in the individual municipality, in the individual organisation, in the individual institution or in the individual person, if anything breaks down. Therefore, it is important to address this in an offensive way. The Progress Party has been constantly open to considering the measures that may be needed, whether economic or regulatory. When it is found that there is a great need for information on the year 2000 problem, and Action 2000 has not provided funds for this type of public information action, we will follow our reasoning and consistent line and support the Ministry's proposal for a supplementary allocation in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e846	In accordance with the Government's follow-up plan for the management of the 2000 problem, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade established the Project Action 2000 in June 1998 as a driving force towards the local and industrial sectors. It is therefore established to prevent the possible consequences of the millennium. The mandate of the action has been limited to preventing, with the focus on the two target groups, the local and business sectors. Key actions in the drive of the action have included various targeted information actions, training activities across the country and the development of concrete tools to assist SMEs and municipalities in particular. In the context of Action 2000, status measurements have also been carried out every two months and information has been published on the Internet site of Action 2000, specifically targeting SMEs and the local and regional authorities. Studies carried out by the Government show that there is now a need for information from the centre of the population, not on the prevention of the problem, but on how to deal with the situation that may arise if problems arise. In this context, the government emphasises the importance of providing a realistic and accurate picture of the year 2000 problem. It will be important to inform that thorough, preventive work has been carried out both in the private and public sectors, and that any problems – as far as we know – are most likely to be modest and short-lived. It is also important to communicate that emergency measures are being prepared in all societally critical areas that can be deployed. Therefore, in the public information provided by government in connection with the 2000 problem, we will not recommend concrete preparedness measures at the individual's home. The government plans, among other things: a major information campaign starting in a few days’ time, as well as sending out a brochure to all Norwegian households providing information on the year 2000 problem last November. On the basis of Aktion 2000’s information work so far and the experience, networks and knowledge that the Action 2000 has built up in the year 2000 problem, the Government has entrusted the action with the responsibility for parts of the public-oriented information work during the period remaining before the millennium – i.e. information on how to deal with the problem itself at the turn of the millennium and the period thereafter, not the prevention work for which the action has been established. The Ministry of Justice has been entrusted with the coordination responsibility of the authorities’ work on information and preparedness related to the 2000 problem. Action 2000 in this area is therefore being undertaken by the Ministry of Justice, which has planned these measures since spring 1999. In St. prp. No 4 for 1999-2000, Funding for public information measures in connection with the 2000 problem, the Stortinget was asked to increase the allocation of the 1999 government budget. 926 item 70 The 2000 problem of covering the costs of these information measures – this is because the mandate for Action 2000 does not include this type of action, and therefore Action 2000 has not provided funding for this. The third year 2000 report shows the need for Action 2000 to continue its prevention work until 31 December 1999. At present, therefore, Action 2000 has not allocated resources to public information measures within the existing allocation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e861	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 326]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e877	In June of this year, the United Nations General Assembly summarized what had happened in the five years since the United Nations Conference on Population and Development in Cairo. There is reason to ask to what extent a conversion has taken place, as the action plan suggested, from traditional family planning and population control to a comprehensive reproductive health supply. The health of women differs from that of men in both the incidence and type of illness and in the use of healthcare. Generally speaking, women have a lower priority in treatment because doctors and health professionals lack knowledge of women’s diseases. Appropriations from WHO and UNICEF show that approx. 585,000 women lose their lives every year in pregnancy and childbirth. 75 000 of these are estimated to die as a result of abortions carried out by ignorant persons or without necessary equipment. 99 pst. of these deaths occur in developing countries. In addition to this, 15 million women suffer injuries, infections and other complications associated with pregnancy each year — injuries that have consequences for the future life and health of women. ==References== 25 pst. of all pregnancies are undesirable because of lack of prevention services, misuse of prevention, poor information, unsatisfactory methods, partner resistance to prevention or sexual assault. More than 30 million people carry the HIV virus in them. 42 pst. Of them, women, and the percentage of women seems to only increase, because women are often very powerless in relation to the source of infection. This alarming picture is part of the background for the Cairo Population Conference to adopt an action plan, where one should go from traditional family planning and population control to a comprehensive reproductive health supply. Reproductive rights are based on specific human rights, such as the right to life, the right to freedom and personal security, the right not to be discriminated against on grounds of sex, age, race or religion, but also the right to obtain the best possible health status, the right to education and the right to receive and disseminate information. Reproductive rights include the right to decide for yourself when and whether to have children, and the right to avoid unwanted sexual relations, but also the right to avoid unnecessarily jeopardising life and health in relation to reproduction. A reproductive health service shall cover everything from pregnancy control, maternity and maternity care, prevention guidance, treatment and prevention of gender diseases and sexual education. One of the pioneers in Norway in terms of reproductive health, Katti Anker Møller, stressed that «we love motherhood and will do well, but in full freedom and under our own responsibility». The reason why work on human rights focuses on sexual and reproductive health is that this side of female health is the most politicised, and existing practices are strongly linked to standards of sexual behaviour, gender relationships, child education, and so on. It can therefore be difficult to make changes from the inside. The action plan adopted in Beijing in 1995 obliges the governments involved to ensure that all policies reflect gender mainstreaming. This presupposes inter alia: that the authorities carry out an ex-ante evaluation of all decisions, measures and programmes to see how they affect women and men. The action plan contains many concrete proposals as to what country must continue to work on health issues. At a time of major changes in population composition and value base, increasing cultural and religious diversity and increasing distance between poor and rich, the Action Plan is important for gender mainstreaming in the health policies of all countries. In order to achieve a comprehensive provision of services in relation to reproductive health, many believe that major parts of the financial support from the multilateral and bilateral system need to be channelled directly to the voluntary and private organisations. Today, most of the funds from multilateral organisations go to the authorities of each country, which often refuse to convert healthcare. We know that there are a lot of resources lost in bureaucratic procedures, corruption and inexplicable delays. And discussions are taking place, among other things. within the UN Population Programme and the United Nations Development Programme on the possibilities for channelling financial support directly to voluntary and private organisations in order to increase the efficiency of implementation. I believe that Norway should engage in this debate and use policy instruments to convert the funding procedures. Norway has, inter alia: contributed almost NOK 3 billion to the UN Population Programme since its establishment in 1969, and it should be in Norway’s interest that this money is spent in a sound and as targeted manner as possible. It may seem that voluntary organisations, women’s and health organisations, have taken the Cairo action plans most seriously and have carried out pilot projects. Women’s health in poor countries can be compared to women’s health in Norway 100 years ago, as reproduction, infection and disease deficiency were a major threat to women’s life and health. At the same time, the situation for women in the poor countries still appears to be deteriorating, and there are significant health consequences. This perspective seems to me to be a little involved in the assistance to the health sector in our countries of cooperation. Norway does not have a reproductive health aid policy, such as: Sweden has. Norway made a strong mark both at the Cairo Conference and at the Beijing Conference, and it obliges us to follow up on this commitment to reproductive health, both at home and in the international community. What does the Government do to follow up its part of the Cairo and Beijing action plan?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e924	The representative, Mr Bekkemelm Orheim, has called for Norway to comply with its commitments to reproductive health and female health in relation to the 1994 Cairo Action Plan on Population and Development. I appreciate this opportunity to tell you what we're doing. Before I go into the Norwegian aid in more detail, I would like to say a few words about the context in which the assistance is provided. I would also like to say something about the political work that has gone parallel to the aid itself. The Cairo Conference of Population and Development in 1994 represented a break with previous approaches to population issues. Prior to Cairo, the focus was somewhat one-sided on reducing birth rates. This led to the individual’s needs – the woman’s needs – and rights coming into the background. There are a number of examples of human rights violations associated with this in the form of forced prevention, including sterilisation and abortion. In other countries, on the other hand, there was strong distrust of population regulation measures. Instead, the Cairo conference focused on human rights and individual needs for human reproduction and sexuality-related health services. This includes, for example, measures to reduce maternal mortality, measures against sexually transmitted diseases, including HIV/AIDS, access to family planning, measures against infertility and the fight against female circumcision. Training for women was also very important. Men were more involved in this work. Experience has shown that such a broader approach is also the most effective way to reduce birth rates. Population issues were also introduced into a broader development context. The aim is to achieve a better balance between economic development, the environment and population growth, while at the same time eliminating the system of compliance with quota schemes and concrete targets for population growth, which in practice led to human rights abuses. So what have we done? The UN Population Fund, UNFPA, is an important driver of the follow-up to the United Nations action plan. From its inception in 1969, Norway has been a major financial support player. We are very positive in reports on the donor countries’ contribution to the follow-up to the Cairo Conference. Norway is today the fourth largest contributor to UNFPA and increased the aid from 175 million. DKK in 1994 to SEK 210 million. 1998 kr. Norway is on track in relation to the quantified objectives of Cairo. This reflects the fact that the Government has health measures in this area as a very important field of action. At the same time, we have achieved the goal of health having 10 pst. of the bilateral assistance. UNFPA uses about two thirds of its programme resources to support national reproductive health services. A large part of this continues to be related to family planning, but the organisation has gradually engaged on a broader basis in other reproductive health issues such as HIV/AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases, its own programmes for young people, measures against female circumcision, health control for pregnant women, maternity care, etc. These are also issues that have been actively addressed by the Norwegian side of the UNFPA Board of Directors. In many countries, the organisation has provided substantial support for the development of a new policy and development strategy in this area and has been a driving force for changes that strengthen the position of the woman. 70 pst. UNFPA funds go to the poorest countries. The International Federation for Family Planning, IPPF, has been another important channel for assistance to this field. In addition, significant contributions are made to reproductive health programmes under the auspices of the World Bank and the World Health Organisation, WHO. Through the WHO, Norway has supported a research programme on human reproduction, the programme on female health and the advice programme on human reproduction. These programmes are now actively followed up by the WHO. The Women’s Health Programme has identified violence against women as an important field of research. The annual support for these programmes has increased by more than 50 pst. from 1994 to 1999. In addition, support was given to the WHO in 1997 and 1998 to ensure gender mainstreaming throughout the organisation’s work. Bilateral development cooperation in the health sector is increasingly focused on broader national health sector programmes. A well-functioning district health service is a prerequisite for reaching the vast majority of women, among others. to reduce maternal mortality or to meet the health challenges associated with the HIV/AIDS epidemic. We are working to provide reproductive health with a sufficient share of resources in the health sector. In addition, in recent years, NORAD has supported UNFPA’s rural programmes in several countries, currently involving measures involving women’s health in Uganda, Ethiopia, Zimbabwe, Tanzania, Angola, Mozambique and Nicaragua. Following Cairo, NORAD has also supported the work of non-governmental organisations, such as the representative Bekkelem Orheim. for measures against the cross-section of girls. At the same time, I would like to stress that non-governmental organisations can never replace public health services, even in terms of women's rights. WHO has received support from us to develop a strategy for reproductive health in Africa. The extent of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, particularly in many poor African countries, has grown to such an extent that its consequences are felt in all sectors of society. Women, and especially young girls, are particularly vulnerable. That's why this isn't just a matter of reproductive and so-called sexual health. All assistance to these countries must be seen in the light of the epidemic. Norway has invested even more in this field in the last two years. Assistance to the UN Joint Programme against HIV/AIDS has also been significantly increased. More comes; I have in a letter from the Health Minister and myself to Director-General Harlem Brundtland asking that WHO bets especially in the field of HIV/AIDS. With regard to the special session of the UN General Assembly in June/July this year, significant progress was demonstrated in many of the areas covered by the Cairo Action Plan. There have been significant changes at policy level and in legislation in a number of countries. Among other things, several countries have banned the interception of girls or have taken action to eliminate this practice. It's positive. However, the financial resources made available from developed countries for the implementation of the Action Plan are much less than expected in Cairo. Much remains to be done in many countries. Developing countries as a whole are improving, but in the poorest African countries, investment has been marginal. It is also in these countries that the needs, including the needs of women, are greatest. Mother mortality is very high, and birth rates remain high. HIV/AIDS has hit particularly hard. It is difficult to track progress in reducing maternal mortality. Norway therefore co-financed an expert meeting in Colombo in November 1997 in which this problem area was examined. The government put great emphasis on getting a good end result for women's reproductive health at the special session in New York. The Norwegian delegation was impressed by several concrete proposals, perhaps most important of them: the availability of skilled birth help to reduce maternal mortality. The need for youth was a central but, at the same time, more controversial theme during the special session. This was an area in which we from Norway were particularly active drivers during the negotiations. The issue of the right to confidential health care, measures against HIV/AIDS and sexual education at school was central. Here, youth needs and rights often came into conflict with the perception of parents’ rights in several countries. Nevertheless, this area has been significantly strengthened. The school's responsibility for providing information at all levels of primary school was underlined. The importance of involving young people in the development of responses addressed to them was also emphasised in several contexts. The youth group will also be particularly focused in the further work aimed at the HIV/AIDS epidemic. The Norwegian starting point for the negotiations in the special session was to avoid a reopening of the content of the action programme in line with the instructions given by the UN General Assembly. The background for this was, among other things, avoiding backlashes of the Cairo Conference in important areas of reproductive health and women’s rights. The most controversial issues during the negotiations next to youth offers were the follow-up of unsafe abortions and the attacker. In particular, under the chapter on family planning, an attack proposal was controversial. The conflict stood between countries that saw the attack as a contraceptive, and the countries that considered it an abortion drug, and therefore as a reopening of the Cairo abortion debate. Due to the strong resistance of several countries, the Norwegian delegation proposed a compromise proposal where the reference to the attacker could remain, but where a reference to national legislation was included. However, the final document took out the specific reference to the attacker. Instead, more generally, reference was made to the importance of using technological innovations and increasing the use of curative but underused methods. This illustrates that the tactical assessments have an impact on the final result. As the Norwegian State Council, I have received very positive feedback from UNFPA's leader, Nafis Sadik, who praised the mediation role played by Norway during the negotiations. She thought it had been important for the positive outcome of the special session. UNFPA has a clear mandate that is in line with Norwegian social assistance objectives. From the Norwegian side, it is important to ensure UNFPA working conditions to fulfil its driving role in the follow-up to the Cairo Conference. The organisation will therefore continue to receive strong support for its work by the Norwegian side and by the Government. In October this year we have become six billion people. According to the forecasts at the Cairo Conference, we should have reached this milestone a year earlier. It shows that we're on the right track. Many countries continue to experience that population growth is a major challenge. Population growth needs to move more in line with economic development and the capacity of countries to provide education, health and other social services. The road to achieving this goal was paved the way for Cairo, and that road is built on human rights and the development of social services. The focus here will be on women's rights. The government places a great deal of emphasis on that. This is a strategy The Government has faith in and will continue to actively support about.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e964	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. As we all remember, Norway held a very high profile at the last two conferences. We all remember that Gro Harlem Brundtland had to have his own security guards because of the death threats associated with her and Norway's attitude to abortion and to sexuality. The Norwegian Government’s recommendation was used to design the chapter on female health in the Beijing action plan. The Beijing Conference continued with the Cairo Conference, recommending the countries to revise laws punishing women who had committed illegal abortion. Quantified objectives have been achieved, says the Council of State. Does the Minister for Assistance feel that our support goes well enough to this target group? And to what extent has there actually been a conversion, as the action plan states? I would also like to ask the Council of State whether she does not agree that it is actually the voluntary organisations, the women's and health organisations, who have taken the Cairo action plan most seriously, and have gone ahead with pilot projects. I believe that the experience we have done so far suggests that time is now ripe to channel funds more directly to women's organisations that have competence in reproductive health. In any case, it should be possible to test some pilot projects. The Council of State says it cannot replace public authorities, but I believe that given the years this has worked, it is now time to try out new types of instruments to see if they work in a better way than is the case today. Nor can I fully support the idea that the Council of State represents a party which is contrary to the Norwegian abortion law and which stands for a very restrictive view of prevention guidance and better availability in terms of prevention and so on. We are also aware that Secretary of State Haaland Matlary of the U.D. was part of the Pope's delegation to Beijing. This delegation was the only one who reserved for the chapter that went on female health. Despite the view of the Christian People's Party on these issues, I believe it is important that Norway follow up the action plan and assume its responsibility for women's reproductive health in the world. And in that way, I interpret the Council's response as positive.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e977	I didn't have the honour of having security guards around me in New York during the special session, but I think that those who followed the debate and heard the Norwegian speech, perceived that here there was an offensive council of states and a position from the Norwegian side that women's rights are very important, and that we are following up the action plan and will stand by for it to be followed up by other countries as well. When I mentioned this with quantified objectives, they have been achieved in Norway. We have fulfilled our obligations. But it's clear that it doesn't hold up, we have to work to ensure that other countries also meet their quantified objectives. And that fight is far from over. As far as voluntary organisations are concerned, we are in fact already supporting more women's organisations and their work, and we are supporting several projects just in the direction requested by the representative of Bekkelem Orheim. The reason why I found in my post that public health is very important is, of course, that even if you have some projects around that do something in relation to women's rights in the areas to which they apply, it's only when you have a public health service that reaches out that you reach the large mass of women. It is only through a real offensive and proper public sector, developed in the districts, that poor and most marginalised women are reached. And that's why we put emphasis on it. Although we may be dissatisfied with the fact that we do not get enough and get a proper policy change fast enough, we do not have to give it up in a way, because then we have given up the great mass of women in relation to this type of health care. I would like to stress that through the conversion we are now making of Norwegian assistance in accordance with discussions we have had in Stortinget, we want to go more to major health sector programmes, and then the policy dialogue with individual countries will become very important. That's how you reach many of the poorest women. And as you know, among the poorest, it's 70 pst. women and children. With regard to the theme of prevention at the conference, I can assure you that, as I also did in my speech – and I think that those who noticed the Norwegian attitude recorded it – Norway had a very offensive attitude, not least in the case of youth and contraceptives, which was one of the major controversial issues. There's a vision that is consistent with the bulk of the population. I think that has also been reflected in this room in the last few years, so maybe the representative Bekkelem Orheim can follow me a little bit better. With regard to the representative's reference to Secretary of State Haaland Matlary, she then represented the Pope. Now she represents the Norwegian government when she's traveling, and then it doesn't have to be the same policy that applies – now it's the Norwegian government's policy that applies, and it's based on the basis we have in Stortinget. Let me end by pointing out that our challenge is not just to stand up to women's rights, it's just as much to find a way to do it that allows us to get an international impact. There, Nafis Sadik has told us that we have to try to find a way to do it that does not provoke and leads to a decline. It's a big challenge for all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e990	It's alarming, and totally unacceptable, that two thirds of the world's poor are women. It is also quite unacceptable that women's health in the poorest countries can best be compared to women's health in Norway 100 years ago, as the interpellant stressed, i.e. that childbirth, illegal abortions, infections and debilitating diseases are the main threats to women’s health. It is important that, in our poverty orientation in aid, we take the perspective of feminising poverty. But self-control is also important in the overall context of improving women’s health. One of the main objectives of Norwegian assistance is to contribute to strengthening women's rights and opportunities to participate actively, and in line with men, in economic, social, political and cultural life. This includes, among other things: the need to look at the place of women in the agricultural system, their entitlement to the land they cultivate and to the income from the income. It is important to focus on crafts and small industries, and in particular micro-credit has been shown to have a positive impact on women's development around the countries of the south, and to be an important women-oriented aid measure. We also need to build up women's networks, and I want to place the crucial emphasis on that. We need to focus on women’s participation in the decision-making process, among others. it is important that women participate in the planning and implementation of aid projects. Therefore, it is also necessary to focus on schooling women to participate in political activity in order to ensure control of their own development. As far as health is concerned, I would also like to stress that abortion has to be decriminalised. I also allow myself in this context to ask the Council of States once again to address this with the US debt to the United Nations, such as the United Nations. Because the U.S. Congress will not give money to the U.N. because they want to link it to not having family planning and not supporting abortion. Cropping is also among the most cruel abuses against women, especially in Africa, and must, in my opinion, be the top priority of the World Health Organisation. I am pleased that assistance for health increased to approx. 10 pst. in 1998, and I would like to support what Bekkemel Orheim said about prioritising women's health. Finally, I would also like to say something about an initiative recently presented by the World Bank, an interesting framework for an overall framework for the coordination of development work in each country, namely the Comprehensive Development Framework. Such cooperation both necessitates and allows an overall analysis of the economic and political situation of the beneficiary countries, and must also involve women in a broad range of situations. donors shall cooperate on assistance in each country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e1007	The interpellant focuses on something that should involve everyone. This important debate comes at a time when we hear a howl from all over Norway that there is too little money both for one and for the other. When we sometimes dare to lift the nose tip a little bit beyond the border, the problems we have here, and we're struggling with, small. We're fine! But it gives us a responsibility towards countries that are struggling with the development of the country and for the framework conditions of individuals. Among the poorest in the world who have less than $1 per. Day to live for, is 70 pst. women and children. At the same time, studies show that investing in the education of young women is the most effective and the best development. The UN Conference on Population and Development, held in Cairo, put this important theme on the agenda. The action programme paid particular attention to strengthening the position of women, but also to the needs of young people for information and health care. The role and responsibilities of humans must also be made more visible. The content and plans of the action programme are a step in the right direction. The problem has been the problem of funding. A two-thirds burden distribution from developing countries and one third from donor countries was a prerequisite. However, a report from the UN Population Fund in 1997 points out that the failure of resources is primarily in the donor countries. Norway is far from the worst in the class. But this shows how important it is with the ever-increasing commitment of world politicians to lifting these challenges. It's not about a lot of resources per person. the head to get a chance to get out of the spiral of poverty. So to the situation of women in developing countries. In order for women to contribute to the development of their own lives and countries, there are some framework factors that must be in order: health care, education, education, nature and environment, food, economics/capital. The most important thing is to get this into a right perspective, it must not just be good thoughts. Education is the most important resource for women. Strengthening and increasing the proportion of girls taking primary education and completing it is important. The security of requiring rights is precisely in the knowledge. Educating a woman is educating an entire family, is a commonly used expression. It makes sense to me, especially since there are women who are primarily responsible for the growth of the next generation. Health is another very important resource to strengthen the position of women. Among other things, in reproductive health, there is a need for moderation, safe parenting and availability of prevention. These areas are important areas of activity for the Christian People's Party in further struggle for the poorest. I also think it is important to highlight the conference's focus on the role and responsibilities of men. Especially when you look beyond the hall today, I think it could be important in a country like Norway to get the role and responsibility of men into such an important debate! Investing in women's rights and investing in youth is economically cheap but developmentally very profitable. It is to bet on the future of individuals and the future of the world society. [[The President clubs.]] - And thank you for the extra time, sir. President!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e1024	The President would point out that it was probably not a special allocation of time, but a moment's inattentiveness from the President who made the decision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e1027	I will give tribute to the representative, Bekkemel Orheim, because she puts the health of the women of the developing world on the agenda. For many years as president of the International Federation of Midwives, I worked a lot on these issues and worked closely with the World Health Organisation and UNICEF on various so-called "Safe Motherhood" projects, and I got a painful insight into the situation of women in the developing world. For the majority of the world's women, it is, as many have been, very serious. 600 000 women die every year as a direct result of complications related to pregnancy and childbirth, and 20 million women suffer from severe and prolonged illness and disability. A frighteningly high number of women die because of risky abortions. Every year, 4 million newborns die, and millions more are injured because of poor treatment during pregnancy and childbirth. Except 60 pst. by the women of the world, without qualified assistance, and 99 pst. of which live in developing countries. They die for reasons we in developed countries have managed to clear out too far. And when we know that it is the women who bear the heaviest burdens in relation to children, family, work and the older generation and in the community, we can hardly imagine the tragedy of a society when women become seriously ill or die. If women are to be able to survive, they must receive education, they must have the freedom to choose when or whether they want to have children, and they must have access to health care when they are pregnant and are to be born. And life can also be saved by small means. Qualified birth help is a keyword. Projects that have given the largest medical outreach are some weeks of training and medical devices for women who traditionally assist in births in developing countries. As an example, I will mention a project I was involved in in the Sahel province in Ethiopia, where one in three women died during birth. After a certain amount of schooling and assistance was given to traditional birth helpers, mortality fell to one in fifty. The search light must therefore be set against a wide range of actions, such as education – which has been the subject of many – human rights, access to basic health services, information and action against cultural discrimination. Priority must be given to the development of primary health services and the development of services specifically aimed at pregnancy and childbirth, diseases — including HIV and AIDS — prevention and family planning. I agree with the representative of Bekkemel Orheim that non-governmental organisations, women's and health organisations, have taken the lead and contributed to pilot projects in a number of areas. They must also be given priority in the allocation of funds. I agree that new models have to be tested for help. The Council of State said that they could never replace public efforts, and I agree with that, but they are an important supplement and a resource that needs to be exploited even better.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e1038	There is a red thread from this discussion to the seminar that FOKUS and the adult women had on women's aid, because women's reproductive health and health are generally closely linked to women's access to power and resources and to the development of poverty, as many have said in this debate. The world's women carry poverty on their shoulders. The greatest feminisation of poverty takes place in rural areas in the poorest countries. This is a development that is rooted in increasingly tougher market liberalism, with the WTO, the World Bank and the IMF as tools, as they work today. And it is precisely on the basis of a World Bank directive that the poorest countries had to cut down on the public sector, which means poorer provision of health and education for women. Alice Raymondu from the Philippines, who attended the women's assistance seminar, could tell us something about what happens to women when cracks happen in an increasingly liberalized economy. It happened in the Philippines. Then, from before, underpaid women on a slave contract were literally put on the street. 500,000 women from eastern bloc countries are lured and sold to brothels and street prostitution in the west due to the development of poverty — a serious threat to their health. Working to improve women’s health needs to be linked to the work of getting rid of degrading poverty. This means looking at the structures of a turbocapitalist world that create increasing poverty, which means that assistance must be provided to women so that it can contribute to development away from poverty. The 1995 United Nations Development Report clearly stated that the safest way to invest in economic and social development is to strengthen the economic and social position of women. The Cairo Conference focused on a comprehensive reproductive health supply, a shift away from unilateral family planning and population control. So who is it that has taken the action plan seriously and gets to pioneer projects? Well, there are several things that have been said here, namely non-governmental organisations, women's and health organisations in the poor countries. Experience is there like here that when women get to build networks and get the opportunity to organize, mobilize to change, something happens. This is where the work of maintaining and increasing the so-called women's allowance comes in. It has contributed to networking, to mobilization and to strengthening those who can and will do something based on local circumstances. And I would like to challenge the Minister of Aid to say if she still wants to fight for the women's appropriations and for 100 pst. financing of women’s projects which are just contributing to mobilisation and networking. I am quite pleased with what the Minister for Aid said from her work at the follow-up conference to the Cairo Conference.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e1052	Issues related to reproductive health are important issues, and this applies to the most part also for men – it may be a bit of my motivation to make a statement here to show that this is the situation, but for the sake of order: at a very close range of motivation. Nevertheless, women and women’s health are becoming very central to reproductive health issues. In this context, it is also important to stress the importance of preventive health work, ensuring a good general health status for women, and the importance of some issues relating perhaps more directly to the actual birth situation, hygiene skills, etc. This shows that general health skills are important and, above all, the general level of knowledge among women is also important. This underlines the importance of focusing on the education of girls, so that when they are at reproductive age, they also have a knowledge-based premise for, among others. to understand better health and maternity issues. That means that I – in line with Marit Nybakk, Sonja Sjøli and, as far as I can see, also Ågot Valle – am also concerned with the more general questions, and that women's situation is more generally very important in this context. I would like to highlight in particular that the education of girls in particular is a central question. It will also relate to the situation of women in society in general, including those related to work and place in business, in short and well-defined positions in society. In the case of Norwegian development aid, it is important that it should continue to have a strong female-oriented character. At that time, it may not be so important to make this a matter of particular concern about the allocation of women to the State budget, as important is the question of how to organise the use of the total amount of aid used. In terms of maternity planning, I would like to stress what the Council of State also said, that there are more parties in this government, and that other parties have a different view of abortion than the party of the Council of State. At the same time, I think it is important to be cautious about these issues, so that one does not get into the situation that some developing countries, due to religious and mental issues, in a way close if one is to stress one another some of the ethically difficult issues.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e1065	Women have a key role to play in the global development process. Around the world, most women have the primary responsibility for the children in their first year of life. Proper nutrition and good learning during this period are fundamental to physical and mental development. Ensuring the position of women and safeguarding their rights is therefore a central task. The fight against repression must be reinforced, such as: when thousands of Nepalese girls are sold to brothels in India or girls are transfused in Africa. Similarly, the fight against drugs will strengthen public health and enhance women’s well-being by reducing violence against women. By investing in better access to clean water, a woman's time to work will also be freed, and health will be improved. The Cairo Population Conference concluded that it must be the health and well-being of women and the family that must be at the centre of population policy. Factors that particularly affect the view of women and the family of the desired number of children are linked to a better distribution of values created, education and social protection. The Christian People's Party believes that assistance benefits, and assistance for education for girls benefits the best, shows studies. Women often run households among the poorest in Africa. For this reason, women are a central target group for the actions undertaken to overcome poverty. After all, poverty is the biggest problem for women, and 70 pst. of the world's poorest are women. In the 2000 budget, the Government has also emphasised support for human rights and women's rights. Such a broad approach to the provision of services for women will be more effective also in relation to reproductive health. At the Cairo Conference in 1994, the UN Population Fund, UNPRA, was a driver and has therefore also been given a central place in the follow-up to the conference action plan. As the Minister for Development said, Norway is the fourth largest contributor to UNPRA with more than 200 million. 1998 kr. The WHO shall assist poor countries in the development of comprehensive health systems. The AIDS epidemic is one of the most serious health problems and is now also a growing problem. The fight against AIDS must become an integral part of development. Mother mortality and motherhood are important themes in the years to come. Therefore, when health and education are at the forefront of poverty reduction efforts, efforts should be increased, in particular in relation to women. The consequences of this are better living conditions, subdued population growth, reduced child labour and better health.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e1082	I would like to join in what the previous speakers have said about the importance of women sharing in the prosperity development that a person is working towards in developing countries, that they are getting the education they need, and that they become equal participants in their societies. But we know that for very many women there is the reproductive situation, the situation they face in reproduction, which means that they don't get part of education, in welfare offers, they're put on the sideline to a great extent. The action plans that the Council of State referred to the follow-up are comprehensive and large, and Norway has had a high profile in international engagement, but it only helps very little if what we decide is not adopted, and what we grant benefits the women affected. There is an important debate between Orheim and Karita Bekke. It is important for those directly affected by health and it is important for us who grant aid without having sufficient control over how these funds are used. When the conclusion of the Women’s Health Committee’s recent research into women’s health in developing countries is that the situation is deteriorating, there is every reason to ask how targeted Norwegian authorities are in prioritising the use of aid. In Norway, where the use of public funds is regulated, where the Storing earmarks well-being crowns to a far greater extent than in any other country it is natural to compare with, the same increase makes very modest demands on the use of the significant sums allocated over the aid budget. It is quite strange that governments who increasingly trust their own colleagues in financial accountability at local level show confidence in both the authorities of the developing countries and multilateral organisations. Reproductive women's health policy is not only a neglected but also a sensitive area in many countries. Professor Johanne Sundby, who has studied female health in Africa, says to Women Together, No. 1/99 that reproductive health services are difficult to achieve without women’s movements in individual countries, too much is controversial in reproductive health. It's after all those who live with the problems, who know them best, and who can be guides to charities who want to be with and take a boost for better health for the world's women. Based on the research conducted by Dr. Sundby in women’s health in Africa, she concludes that efforts should be made on projects such as ‘let the hundreds of flowers bloom’, pilot projects, small innovative projects directed by organisations. And then she's targeting local women's organizations, not the big heavy-duty international ones. Our own history builds up under the benefit of such a vision. In Norway, there were, to a large extent, sanitary associations and other women’s organisations that were drivers of good health services. Can we expect Norway's resources to be better earmarked for this purpose for developing countries; and funds to be channelled through smaller, local projects rather than through the large multilateral organisations, over which we have little control?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e1099	I believe that there has been a very constructive debate, in which we have been given the opportunity to discuss women's health in a broader international perspective. There is no doubt that the challenges facing the world society in terms of female health are entirely formidable. It's true, as the representative Dagrun Eriksen said, that without the ever-increasing involvement of the world's politicians in these enormous challenges, we're not going to do anything. Our national problems become marginal when we raise our eyes a little bit. I also fully agree that assistance benefits, but in the future we need to see if we have the opportunity to ensure our quality of assistance a little more. We know that the government of India has dealt with past coercion and control of population programmes, and instead introduced the concept of ‘reproductive health’. However, all reports show that implementation has been short-lived and that it is still not being invested in reproductive health services. The representative, Ågot Valle, was also very right in the economic and social position of women. Strengthening it is the only thing that helps, if we're really going to get a lift in this case. According to the 1994 Cairo People's Conference Action Plan, the aim is to make women's reproductive health and fertility stronger on the agenda. And it's important that we ensure women in the Third World follow-up during pregnancy, childbirth and maternity, as the representative Sonja Sjøli was also inside his post. Women need help and assistance after sexual assaults and abortion complications. This is among some of the things that we need to ensure is done by the fact that in the future our means of assistance are being used in the most targeted way possible. I interpret the Council of State as seeing the major challenges we face in this field, and that she from Norway is following this in a proper way. In the end, I would like to say that I think it was particularly gratifying that a man took part in this debate on assistance for women’s health – thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e1114	I will also agree that this has been a constructive debate, and we need it in advance of new challenges. I would particularly like to refer to the Beijing Conference that is coming. In this context, Nafis Sadik has expressed concern about a possible ‘backlash’ in several developing countries, particularly as regards the position of women and girls. In particular, she has sent a challenge to the Nordic countries to try to find ways to strengthen women’s position in developing countries, without simultaneously forcing the countries she calls unacceptable western values. Here we are facing a very big challenge, which the representative from the Left was also faced with, precisely communicating so that we can win through and not get backlash. I'm going to take that challenge seriously. It is also important that we take it seriously together, so that we can manage to win new victories on behalf of women, not contribute to the opposite. It's a huge challenge. So some of the questions that came from individual representatives. First, to the representative Nybakk. Of course, we will continue to discuss with the United States the importance of paying their debts to the United Nations and not imposing conditions. To Ågot Valle: With regard to the special allocation for women, many of the funds for women and women projects are actually excluded from the allocation. There is some reason why we have had the discussion on the three different specific appropriations for the aid budget. I want to assure the Storting of one thing, and that is that all kinds of measures that are currently receiving funds from the women's allocation and the special allocation will still receive it. In that case, the discussion is not on budget lines or on how the posting is done, but on ensuring that exactly the same measures that were supported in the past are supported. The main challenge, some of which have been faced with, is that we get a woman's right on the whole. That's what gives us the big results. So to the proportion question of women's projects. The whole issue of promissory notes is to be assessed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There are other organisations that represent other groups that have also asked for 100 pst. funding, so it's not easy to draw the distinctions between different types of projects and different types of organisations, so I can't make any promises, but just say that we're now considering the whole issue. To underline what has been said about the importance of women's and girls' education: this is something that I put a lot of emphasis on. It's actually the key to development in a lot of poor countries. And then I will refer to what the representative Nybakk said about the Comprehensive Development Framework, which is the new coordinating framework that we will set in motion in various poor countries around the world. It will be the key to focus more on education, health and not least on getting women’s rights to permeate the assistance from all donor countries, not just from Norway. That's what will give the big results, that we can get women's rights into a perspective where all donor countries go together. So I'll finally point to a main challenge, which I'd like to use my entire post on. It's that we have to bet more on HIV/AIDS. We've invested a lot, and we'll bet more, but that challenge is great, and today, young women are being hit hardest.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e1129	The interpellation debate is therefore over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e1135	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e1141	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Anita Apelthun Säle on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and Left Amendment No. 2, from Ansgar Gabrielsen on behalf of the Right. The vote is first on the minority proposals and then on the setting. Proposal No. 2, from the right, says: «The Government is requested to declare and dispose of the land of the country on Fornebu in line with the Government's own recommendations in St.meld. [[1998 - 1999]] No 13 The vote boards showed that 81 votes were cast against the proposal from the Right and 15 in favour. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 15.38.23]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e1164	I voted wrong. I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e1171	I should have voted against it too.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e1178	Then there should be 83 votes against the proposal from the Right and 13 in favour. The proposal is therefore not accepted. Proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left, says: ‘The decision agrees that the Government may conclude negotiations with IT Fornebu Technoport and Network Fornebu AS with the assumptions given in the proposal. Reasoned recommendation of the interested party and agreement between the State and the private shall be submitted to the Enlargement in a separate proposition as soon as the negotiated result is available.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-02.ana.ud1615e1270	Case No. No voting theme is available.
