ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e27	From 20 April to 26 April, an application has been submitted for the leave of the representative of Thorbjørn Jagland to participate in meetings under the direction of the Chinese People's Institution of Foreign Affairs in Beijing, China, following an invitation. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Frank Willy Larsen, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e61	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik Council Odd Einar City Council Hilde Frafjord Johnson The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the notified persons, wish to ask themselves the main questions are asked. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative of Thorbjørn Jagland.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e80	The Workers' Party fully supports the Government's policy and management of the Kosovo conflict. It is necessary to maintain the right of refugees to return under international protection. If we allow one million people to be relocated in this area, it is likely to destabilize more countries and perhaps set the entire Balkans on fire. It may now indicate that this dual strategy of military pressure and diplomatic work can produce results. The meeting in Oslo yesterday was positive. I would like to ask the Prime Minister what thoughts he is now thinking about what kind of international force can be deployed in the event that it would be possible to achieve a ceasefire.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e87	Developments in and around Kosovo are a deep tragedy. What is important to emphasize is that the flow of refugees and the acts of war did not occur when NATO deployed its bombing operations. Even before that it was about. 200,000 refugees, war acts were going on and assaults on the Kosovar Albanians were going on, so the production you've seen in some media that this started when NATO started its actions, it's important to drive back. I would also like to take this opportunity to express my joy at the fact that the government is well aware of the back coverage of the parties at Stortinget in this matter, and I also appreciate what opposition leader Thorbjørn Jagland said at the outset, namely that he gives the government full support. It gives the government a security of further work. This matter can basically be said to have three elements: the military, the political and the humanitarian. I think it's right, as Ichland said, that we have to work first to help the refugees in an emergency – we do that mainly in the neighbourhood – and we have proposed appropriations for that purpose. Then, in parallel with the military actions, we also have to work politically and diplomatically. In this way, yesterday's meeting in Oslo was a positive step forward, although one so far has not found a solution. And the most difficult point is exactly what Mr Jagland asked for, the presence in Kosovo for possible armistice. My view, and the government's view, is that this must be such a robust presence that it gives protection to the people of Kosovo – then we think it should have a military component. But this is currently not sufficiently agreed. And one must also have a solution that Serbia can live with.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e98	I am pleased with what the Prime Minister said, and I fully share the analysis he had of the cause of the conflict and the flow of refugees. As far as this international force is concerned, I just want to ask if the government's assessment is that it's an advantage to now bring in non-NATO countries, for example. Russia – setting up a force that could also involve Russia in this international protection that must take place if refugees are to return. Another question is, of course, regarding the United Nations mandate: wouldn't it now be a great advantage to set up a United Nations mandate for what will happen in such a case?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e107	The government is open to discuss different ways of organising this. I think the UN should come in stronger. Today, the UN Secretary-General meets the Heads of Government of the EU and foreign ministers to discuss this. We are also open to and see it as a clear advantage if Russia could join. It is positive that Russia is now involved in the political and diplomatic work to find a solution. I discussed this with Minister of Foreign Affairs Ivanov here in Oslo yesterday, and he said that if there is an international consensus that the Serbian regime can also live with, for an international force in Kosovo after a peace settlement, Russia is positive to participate in it. For my part, I see quite clear advantages if that can happen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e114	There will be follow-up questions from Kristin Halvorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e117	We are now at the heart of what is needed to achieve a political solution, and what is needed to actually secure the Kosovar Albanians after a political solution is reached. There has been an interesting initiative from Germany on this point, on which I should like to have the Prime Minister's views. The issue is whether or not a United Nations mandate can be used to bring about negotiations on the political track, but also on concrete ground security after a withdrawal. In addition, I wonder whether the government has taken some initiative towards the UN in the situation we now have – both as a Norwegian government and not least because we have the chairmanship of the OSCE, Norway could contribute specifically to bringing the UN into line with the future solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e124	To take the last one first: Yes, Norway has taken initiatives in relation to the United Nations, and our foreign minister will, among all his other activities, have today a telephone conference with the UN Secretary-General on this issue. And as I mentioned in my previous reply, today the UN Secretary-General is also meeting the Ministers of State and Foreign Affairs of the European Union. We see a clear advantage of involving the UN, and we have also registered the German initiative in this way. We see very clear benefits if the UN as a world organisation can also be involved. But I must add here that an international force must be so robust and effective that it can really protect the population of Kosovo, whether it be Kosovo Albanians or others. Then I don't think you get beyond a military element, where we know that NATO is the most effective. That this can get an umbrella and an organization that takes care of the interests of the world community, I see as an advantage.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e132	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e135	I also have a question for the Prime Minister about the Kosovo conflict. The Progress Party shares many of the Government's views on this conflict, but in one area we separate teams with the Government, and that is on the issue of taking refugees to Norway. There is the Progress Party in line with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees and most other countries, who just claimed that Milosevic would be helped by moving the refugees out of the area, one would assist in ethnic cleansing. Throughout the front page of the World Gang yesterday – as the Prime Minister has seen – it was a request to Norway to stop the reception of refugees. If all NATO countries took as many refugees to their countries as the Government has warned, it would mean about one million refugees — about half of the total Kosovar Albanian population. Is it really the government's opinion that it wouldn't help Milosevic, if the NATO countries took half of the population to their countries?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e144	Firstly, it has never been relevant to take half of Kosovo's population into other countries; secondly, I have not recorded that the United Nations says that one is helping Milosevic's ethnic cleansing by accepting refugees in other countries. I think it is turning the matter upside down. The situation was that the ethnic cleansing had already come immensely far, and there was a totally unsustainable situation, especially in Macedonia, which was about to be destabilized. In fact, Macedonia closed its border with refugees from Kosovo, and it was in the process of creating a completely unsustainable situation. In that situation, Norway reported that we could receive up to 6,000 refugees. Other countries followed up reporting figures, and this actually contributed to Macedonia opening its borders again and improving the unsustainable situation. I stand by the fact that it was right and wise for Norway to do this. We have received recognition for what we did, including from the UN High Commissioner, who called Norway and thanked us for what we did. The situation has now evolved further. We have received an enquiry from the UN High Commissioner – which I have not only read about in the VG, but which I have actually read in extenso – and we carefully assess it. We consider whether to make a temporary stop at reception, but we will, as the UN High Commissioner has also requested, keep a high level of preparedness for further reception if the situation again requires it. We will take a final decision on the practical handling of this matter during the day. We attach considerable importance to the High Commissioner's recommendation, but we also consult Norwegian non-governmental organisations, as we have already done on the morning question today. In any case, we will accept the planned transport of refugees now the very closest days, because they have expectations of coming to Norway. Then we consider a temporary stop then.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e153	It is also claimed that the reason that Macedonia reopened the border was that it began to enter massive support and help in the form of food, medicine and tent, to receive the refugees there. So there's other explanations than the government's. It's also an actual fact that if all NATO countries had notified the same thing as Norway in relation to the population, one would have taken on about one million refugees, and that's half of the population. After all, the government wanted other countries to follow in Norway’s footsteps, and then Milosevic had just been assisted. However, now is the most important thing to help the most distressed refugees — not spending 600 to 1000 million. to take refugees to Norway, but rather to use the funds to help provide supplies down there. And, in particular, it is now important to organise supplies into Kosovo. If Norway had spent the money for which a few refugees have been taken to Norway, rather than financing helicopter transport and food transport under military cards into Kosovo, it must have been a much better use of these resources.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e162	It is not easy for a single person to bring supplies into Kosovo, because in Kosovo the Serbian regime is carrying out grotesque ethnic cleansing, and therefore they are fleeing Kosovo. The neighbouring countries of Macedonia, Montenegro and Albania have received a tremendous impact because of this. I maintain that Norway’s decision was received positively and was instrumental in resolving an emergency and situation when Macedonia closed its border. But then I agree with Carl I. Hagen that the main weight of help must – and can also be most cost-effective – be done in the neighbourhoods. That's also the government's opinion. That is why I have made it clear that we are now taking this enquiry seriously – we will make a decision later today – where we are assessing a temporary stop, but with a readiness in case the situation had to demand reception again.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e169	There will be follow-up questions – Øystein Hedstrøm.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e172	The media can today announce that the Prime Minister has received both oral and written killing threats, which according to the police come from Serbian communities in Norway. Last year, Norway took thousands of Serbian Croats. We already have a large quota of Kosovo Albanians in Norway, and now the Government is planning to accept up to 6,000 more. Does the Prime Minister not fear that we can get serious criminal acts in Norway, and also elements of war acts, in the light of these considerable receptions in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e177	I have to distance myself from this connection of my situation in relation to the refugee reception. With regard to the questions mentioned in the media about my own situation, I am not going to comment on it. I'll refer that to the police. Then to criminal acts. There is a gigantic ethnic cleansing in Kosovo. If it's criminal, it's what the Kosovar Albanians are exposed to. This is why the Government wants to help — mainly down there and in the neighbourhoods, but I maintain that if necessary we must also be willing to accept someone in Norway. And Norway's decision on this was in the process of resolving a locked and precarious situation. However, we agree that the main gravity of the aid will take place down there, and therefore we consider a temporary stop in the intake here when those transports have come with those who expect to come to Norway – and the family members who should be followed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e184	There will be follow-up questions – Dag Danielsen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e187	I hear the Prime Minister say that Norway took in 6,000 refugees was the thing that gave the blow to a solution to the problems down there. An equally reasonable claim, in my opinion, is that NATO took over the matter and began to build camps, and that international guarantees were given, which resolved the matter. Would it not have been more reasonable to say at an earlier stage that we could take 50,000-100,000 refugees down there and guarantee them? Then we could have solved this much faster and got a better humanitarian solution. In addition, we could have been involved in maintaining the pressure against Milosevic to get a solution to the conflict down there by having the camps in the vicinity, so that there would be a constant pressure from the world community to get a permanent political solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e194	With regard to Norway’s decision, I guess I said – and that’s what I think – that it probably helped to resolve a locked situation. Of course, there were several factors that worked together, but we have been given fairly clear indications that it was clearly involved. And we also have the thanks of the UN High Commissioner, among others. I got a thank you from the United States for doing this. And we agree that as much as possible needs to be helped down there, but one does not exclude the other. When one now assesses the situation so that we may not need to take in more consecutively in the future, we consider making a temporary stop. But one must be aware of Macedonia's situation. Macedonia had come into a desperate situation when they clearly expressed the need for other countries to relieving and withdraw refugees from the country. It wouldn't have helped if we had said that we guaranteed for x the number of thousands in Macedonia, when Macedonia said that these had to go on, out of Macedonia.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e202	Last follow-up question – Vidar Bjørnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e205	I have a follow-up question, but I must first be allowed to say that I am strongly opposed to the analysis presented here by the representatives of the Progress Party in relation to the situation in Kosovo. Their handling could have led to the risk that not all refugees who are currently safe in neighbouring countries had escaped. From this point of view, we believe that it was a correct signal from the Norwegian political authorities to open the door to the reception of Kosovo Albanian refugees in Norway, given that in the acute situation, pressure was eased and allowed neighbouring countries to have open borders, in order to protect Kosovo Albanian refugees. Now I'm registering that someone should have a temporary stop in reception. The background to the signal of accepting Kosovo Albanian refugees was not only humanitarian but also political. Does the Government have assurances that this does not mean stopping in the reception of Kosovar Albanian refugees elsewhere, so that, for example, Can the neighbouring countries actually also say no to receiving Kosovo refugees directly from Kosovo?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e212	I agree with the representative, Bjørnstad, that this is an important matter, and that is of the things we now include in our assessment before we make a final decision. So we are now considering the UN High Commissioner's enquiry and will arrive at a conclusion on it later today. But it is clearly important that a Norwegian decision here does not exacerbate the situation down there. We will ensure that as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e217	Before we move on, the President will stress that this question-tretime should not be used to push polemics against previous respondents, who do not have the opportunity to respond to the polemics, but that questions should be addressed to the Council of State. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e222	My question also goes to the Prime Minister. At my discretion, it's entirely clear now that we're concentrating on how we're going to bring NATO's action to a successful conclusion, and I'm going to turn on the same tone that Thorbjørn Jagland did. I think it's important to stress that the situation calls for unity, firmness and leadership. So the right is behind the line that the government has put on. However, it is not to hide that this is a difficult operation. NATO's successful operation in Bosnia may have led many people to believe that this would be over in a very short time. Now NATO has chosen air forces, while there has been a debate about NATO should also follow up with possible ground sections. There is little Norway can contribute in this context, but I would like to ask how the Prime Minister views it, whether the big NATO countries should find out that it is necessary to go that way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e229	Let me first again and also to Jan Petersen express satisfaction with the way the parties, including the Right, have behaved in this situation. The government is prepared to take the responsibility and leadership that it has, but it gives us an extra security and strength in this work that the parties on the Stortinget are as well behind as is the case in this situation. When it comes to the question of ground forces – then I don't think of any strength to go in and secure a peace settlement afterwards, but ground forces in a war situation – the government has been skeptical and restrained for several reasons: it will take time to set it up, it could be an escalation of the acts of war that are difficult to get the overview of today, and it may make a peace settlement difficult. But if this question is to be seriously reported, the government has to deal with it and deal with it, and in the event we will do so in close consultation with the parties on the Stortinget. What is now the line is to continue the military bombing combined with political diplomatic work, and now with increasing emphasis on political dialogue to try to find a peaceful solution as quickly as possible. For every day that goes, this tragedy evolves, yes, every day of war is itself a tragedy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e236	I am satisfied with this answer. I think it's important to have the necessary transparency in this area. Milosevic is a formidable opponent, and there can be raised questions about how wise it has been to make it clear to him what one has at least not intended to do. I think it is very important precisely for the civil population that NATO does what is necessary to achieve this conflict. But it's probably also that this is a conflict we must be prepared to take time, and it calls for leadership. My question is therefore whether the Prime Minister now agrees with me that this is a conflict that we must expect to take a good time before we have reached solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e246	Yes, unfortunately, Jan Petersen has the right to do so. But we are all putting in force – also with the contributions we can make from the Norwegian side – to try to find a solution as soon as possible, because I believe everyone agrees that before this conflict can end, the better, in the interests of the population of the region and also of the danger of destabilising the security situation. And it's absolutely right, as Jan Petersen says, that any responsible government, together with our allies, must keep an eye on the situation and developments in the acts of war, and must of course also be prepared to consider a question of ground forces if and when it should come.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e251	There will be follow-up questions – Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e254	I am pleased with the answer the Prime Minister has now given. I would like to follow up by saying that it is important that the political bodies in NATO deal with the political issues, while the purely military about how the political objectives are to be achieved are to a greater extent carried out by the professional militants, and that politicians leave to have great opinions on the types of weapons and forces that should be used to achieve a political objective. There may have been a little too much interference from the political bodies in which the bridge is to be bombed and which is not to be bombed. I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether he agrees with this division of labour, and whether the government of Norway will work within NATO's political bodies with something clearer mandate and goal for military action. Is the objective of bringing down the Milosovic regime? Is the objective of disarming Serbia? Is the objective of destroying the power of the Serbian army? Does the Prime Minister agree that there may be a need for any clearer objectives for the mission of the military forces?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e261	I agree with Carl I. Hagen that there is a division of labour, and should be, between the professional and political bodies in NATO. It is clear that the question of putting any ground force into a war situation is of such a size that political bodies, including the Norwegian Government, will also have to be presented, which will then carry out the necessary consultations. With regard to the objective of the current NATO actions, it is to reduce the impact of the Serbian war machine so that it can no longer, in the same way as it can now, attack the Kosovar Albanian population and otherwise threaten the stability of the entire region. That's the goal of the actions, and that goal is what the military are now pursuing. There are different stages for the implementation of military actions to this end.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e269	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e272	I would like to ask this question to the Prime Minister: In the context of proposals for solutions to the situation in Kosovo – how to manage both to stop the bombing and to stop the attacks on Kosovo Albanians – there are some who have started to vent proposals for a future division of Kosovo. I would like to know if the Government considers that this could be a solution at all, and what kind of assessments the Prime Minister makes in relation to what signals such a outcome will give both in relation to the region and in relation to other ethnic conflicts worldwide.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e279	In my view, it will be a poor solution, for it will in reality mean sharing along ethnic borders, and it may have unparalleled negative consequences in other countries where you have conflicts between ethnic groups. I do not believe that we can today neither suggest nor exclude certain solutions. Now it is important to try to stop the acts of war and rebuild Kosovo and other parts of Yugoslavia, which are the heirs of the war. That's why we have to be very careful today about what solution – but, in my opinion, solutions that draw boundaries beyond ethnic boundaries are poor solutions. The aim should be a multi-ethnic Kosovo.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e289	I thank the Prime Minister for the answer. I am pleased that he agrees with SV's assessments on this issue, although I might express myself even stronger than the Prime Minister does. I believe that if one could at all imagine that the end of this war would be a divided Kosovo where Milosevic is rewarded by retaining the most attractive parts of Kosovo for him, one would not only send a signal to the Balkans, but also a signal to everyone else – and there are hundreds of ethnic conflicts around the world – in relation to how one can actually manage to start a completely new drawing of the world map based on ethnic boundaries, then we have no idea what kind of warriors can actually be launched as a result of such a kind of signal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e296	I agree with Kristin Halvorsen on this. That is why I also believe that such a solution will be a poor solution that we should avoid, and that, in the interests of the people of both Kosovo and Yugoslavia, but also in the interests of the signal to other countries, we must bet on a multi-ethnic Kosovo and a multi-ethnic Yugoslavia.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e301	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e304	My question also goes to the Prime Minister, but I go from the war in Yugoslavia to something that can be dramatic here at home. Kværner announced yesterday that the company intends to sell or wind up all its shipyards. Many of these lie in vulnerable environments along the Norwegian coast. It is difficult now to say how dramatic this is for the individual yard and for the workplace, but it can be dramatic. There is therefore good reason why the political environment with the Government at the head is now addressing the issue. The working party has, in several respects, warned against serious developments in the shipbuilding and offshore industries and not least in the supplier industry, and the batch has made several proposals for action in this context. My question is: will the Government in the revised national budget present measures to facilitate the situation in the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e313	I agree with the representative Opseth that Kværner's decision, which was published yesterday, is dramatic in itself, because it is such a massive reduction of a large Norwegian company. But how dramatic it becomes for the workers, it's too early to say. It depends on whether interesting buyers are prepared to continue operating the shipyards, and I have registered that these are already on the track. So it's not said with this that these shipyards are being closed down. However, there is clearly a significant ongoing restructuring also in the Norwegian shipbuilding industry, and it is linked to the entire international situation of the failing market, large overcapacity and increasing competition, especially from the Asian yard. This takes the government seriously, and we already as a first instrument have increased the yard support from 7 pst. to 9 pst. We're going to follow this on. Responsibility for the organisation, development and operation of the activities must lie with the enterprises themselves. When Kværner found that he wanted to leave the building of a ship, it was a business decision that only the company could make, and of course it cannot go into. However, we are aware of the situation for the shipbuilding industry in general and for the oil industry in particular, and have therefore announced that we will come back to an analysis and instruments to remedy the situation, in the context of the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e322	I thank the Prime Minister for the answer. I want to remind the Prime Minister that the Labour Party has long seen the direction of activity in the industry. Proposals to keep the yard up at EU level, to require the construction of new ferries, new fishing boats and new research ships are among the proposals that have been made. The question will be: will the Government follow up any of the following proposals in the revised national budget? But above all, will the Government take an active part in getting new owners to the many shipyards along the Norwegian coast? Can the Prime Minister envisage using SND's equity division and the Swedish Social Security Fund to prevent Norway from being heavily reduced as a shipbuilding nation?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e329	With regard to the proposals referred to by the Labour Party, we are now considering them in the context of the work on the revised national budget. We haven't finished the review of the revised national budget yet, so I can't say exactly what we're in favour of and not. But we're following this situation, we've met with the oil industry about the situation and will take this seriously. Of course, in the case of shipyards, we shall consider the instruments referred to by the representative, Opseth. The best thing for me is that we get private stakeholders who want to take over the shipyards that Kværner wants to sell, and as we register in the media today, there are already interesting stakeholders who have signed up on the track. I think it's a better solution than for the public to start engaging directly in the shipyard.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e336	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e340	I would like to ask a question to the new Minister of Justice of the country. I want to return to the situation in Kosovo. The government has now decided to accept 6,000 refugees. It'll cost about $1 billion when you choose to take refugees here to the country instead of helping out in the neighborhoods. One consequence will be to establish more refugee reception facilities in municipalities, with payment of integration support. With regard to how to cover additional costs such as air transport, it is not clear who is to pay. So my question is: Has the Council of State and the Government had in mind waiting for integration in Norway until the consequences of the conflict in the Balkans – and would it not have been most natural?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e349	The Prime Minister has previously explained the main line of the Government in the matter, namely to help as much as possible in the neighbourhoods, but also to take that part of the responsibility that is outside, and which I personally received from both the UN High Commissioner, Ogata, and the US representative, Julia Taft, in Geneva last Tuesday. In the case of those who come here, all aspects of the matter will be presented to the Stortinget on a case-by-case basis. In terms of practicalities, we think of people who come to Norway and get protection here, that it is important that they are not turned into clients. Clients are not able to help themselves, whether they are going to be in Norway or return to their own country. It's the main line of the government. It's good for those who come, it's good for those who live in Norway, it's even cost-effective use of money and the proper use of taxpayers' efforts to make sure that we don't make people clients.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e356	Then I understand the Minister of Justice so that he wants to initiate the integration process as quickly as possible in the municipalities. We know from past experience that municipalities get a transitional benefit. After a few years, the benefit is removed and the municipalities have to finance it themselves – social expenditure on refugees or other expenses. We also know that the municipalities sometimes come in a situation where they have little money, which in turn leads to an increase in the tax burden in each municipality as expenses are incurred. Does the Council of State consider it morally sound to impose additional charges on individual municipalities and their inhabitants by accepting as many refugees as possible to the country?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e361	I can refuse to answer purely constitutionally, because I now get a question that addresses the responsibility of the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, but because I am in a government that thinks completely, I will answer. The answer is as follows: We have met a unique position in Norwegian municipalities – a unique position. At the latest today, I was told that in the trøndelag they could receive all 6000, so the hearts are open. And I've met local politicians and rapporteurs – and I know them through a long political life – who say that now the situation is so special that we have to stand up and contribute. I can assure the representative that there has been a close dialogue with the Municipal Councils. I myself have been present in this dialogue as well as others, among others. with humanitarian organisations, who say that they will set up to ensure that the heart layer is exploited in a practical, good way. I have never experienced a similar attitude in my adult political life – except when I was 13 years old and then Hungarian refugees came to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e368	There will be follow-up questions – Øystein Hedstrøm.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e371	Regardless of what the council replied to, Jørn Stag, it is documented that there are major problems in Kommune-Norway with the high number of asylum seekers. The Norwegian Institute of Urban and Regional Research has looked at this, and they are right to state that the government's policy of spreading asylum seekers across the whole country has failed. Relatively soon after many municipalities have entered and started a whole-hearted integration process, many of the asylum seekers move to central parts of Norway, such as so-called secondary refugees, and create major problems in the municipalities they move to. At the same time, large parts of the integration grant have been exhausted. What will the Government do to improve the success of these municipalities in their integration process, which they must take over?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e376	The same constitutional considerations apply, but the same practical conclusion applies. The government speaks with one voice, and when we meet here, we also have to answer. The situation is that around the Commune-Norway people are putting up, and they are making a wonderful effort. In the integration policy affected by the representative, it is to be practical, effective and sober, and there is nothing better than to treat people as citizens. A citizen is a citizen regardless of colour and background, and a criminal is a criminal regardless of colour and background. It's that simple. And citizens are people that it shines off, and when one citizen meets another citizen, they promise each other together. That's the way we're going to think about it, that's when we don't make any clients. And if we have wrongfully turned some into clients in our integration policy, I can promise that the Government will go into it and make sure that we show people respect as citizens, whether they come from Kosovo or they come from Grünerløkka or from Toten. That's the philosophy we follow.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e383	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e386	I have a question for the Minister of Justice, and I will not leave Kosovo entirely. In the past, the Prime Minister gave an overall assessment by the Government in relation to aid to refugees. Overall, we support the initiatives taken by the Government. It was a correct signal to give that you would receive Kosovo Albanians also in Norway. This led to other countries receiving Kosovo Albanians, and it also helped neighbouring countries to maintain open borders so that Kosovo Albanians could actually flee Kosovo. But I have a question related to the humanitarian part. Yesterday, advice came from the UN High Commissioner for Refugees that there was no longer a need for help. Today, we see that relief organisations take relatively far away from this assessment. Can the Minister of Justice here help to give a little insight into – in the light of a meeting that I got the understanding of was held on the morning question today – what is this actually like, with something that might seem like two diametrically opposite views?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e395	I don't know what it looks like from the outside, but it probably looks like the representative. From the inside, it looks like we've always had a meaningful and close dialogue with Norwegian humanitarian organisations, just as it has been with the parties on the Stortinget when it's been necessary, and in the same way that it's been with the Central Association of the Municipalities. The practical situation in the area has been explained by the Prime Minister. He has said that we have an ongoing dialogue with the UN High Commissioner. I'm going to pay attention to it. But we were also important in the interaction that triggered what happened in Macedonia. Of course, we will assess this, and we will – to repeat what the Prime Minister said – be sure that in our actions we do not act in such a way as to exacerbate the situation in Macedonia. And if that happens that we stop the direct air transport to Norway temporarily, it's not like we stop accepting refugees. That's how people who have close family here will have the right to come here. The more detailed rules on this – which are practically important, whether you live in a bombed-out Belgrade, or you are in Kosovo, or you are elsewhere – we will clarify during the next few days. But I can assure you that the representative's business is very much in line with the government's assessments. Our main line is this: we are served that the UNHCR has its strength as an institution, but in this conflict we are also served to include all the additional information, because it is when the humanitarian forces go along, as I experienced it in Geneva – UNHCR and Red Cross together – that there will be humanitarian dynamite, if you want to understand me correctly. And when Norway even got praise from the United States, I felt that we were on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e402	I thank the Minister of Justice for the answer. My supplementary question is more of a call for one in the assessments around a temporary stoppage also to have the political part, which was an important part of the original proposal that we should receive some Kosovar Albanians also in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e408	I'm just going to come back to what the representative was about in his previous question, which I might not respond well enough to in my commitment. It is quite right that we have had a meeting with the volunteer organisations today. We've been running it. The points of view that have emerged there will be taken with us. We have chosen to have this dialogue between us. They also have their freedom to express themselves, as they do, for example. do so in the newspapers. So I just want to say that we've had a good dialogue, at the latest before I had to jump to reach this spontaneous question hour. And the views the representative promotes, I can confirm once again are important to us when we make our practical assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e413	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e416	I have a question for the Minister for Development Assistance. It goes on the use of u-aids and has a little connection with question No. 5, which I have later today. We use large sums of u-help for so-called MUL countries. Can the Council of State tell me about money going to these MUL countries, used to build a large-scale meat industry in these countries?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e423	Since the 1995 GSP preferential trade policy legislation, which is a mechanism to improve the ability of the poorest developing countries to export to Norway, where we grant them customs freedom, the majority of the UK also asked the government, the then workers’ party government, to work to establish import lines for special products that developing countries could export to Norway, and to use assistance in this respect. This has been done by the two different governments after this, and it fully supports the current government. These include: have contributed to the construction of the production of roses, which has since been exported and thus imported into Norway. It has been a very successful establishment, how many jobs now help families to get out of poverty in several of the poor developing countries. In part, we have also contributed in the meat sector, but not to the extent that has been the case for roses, also because for example. Botswana, the country which exports most to Norway, is on its own feet in its meat industry and has a very well-developed apparatus for both production, further processing and export, where assistance has been sought from outside in terms of hygiene conditions and in respect of the observance of veterinary guidelines. There we have had no contact, but not to the extent that support in the rose field has been.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e430	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and have been confirmed to the extent that aid goes to governments in each country, and that the funds are also used to build a meat industry with expertise from Central Europe. Is this reasonable use of u-help money?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e435	The majority of the population has made it very clear that it is best to contribute to income-intensive activities in developing countries, so that they become less dependent on development aid. The aim of this is to leave developing countries on their own. The use of development aid during a transitional period is clearly a good use of development funds, because we can later avoid spending money on large transfers to the same countries, which could then be on our own. The aim of this is, of course, to make value creation a key area of Norwegian development aid. It lies in the intentions behind the Government's new strategy for industrial development. But I would like to make it clear once again that in the meat sector, Norway is not a heavy player. There are also not many other industrialised countries, because Botswana is largely doing well alone in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e442	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e445	I have a question for the Minister of Justice. Two days ago, a woman was raped in the castle park in Oslo in the middle of the day. This would not have happened if there had been enough police resources in Oslo to deploy policemen in all the city's parks. But we don't have that much resources in Norway. Norway has the worst police crew in Scandinavia. The police resource committee has concluded that 1 900 new annual works are needed to keep track of the development of crime. In an interview with the Evening Post in 1995, a few weeks before a election, Odd Einar Dørum said: ‘If the Killengeren believes she needs 500 jobs, the Left promises to follow this up. She knows where the shoe is pressing." My natural question is, of course, when will these positions be in place? And can we at least expect the money to be in place before the summer break?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e459	What could or could not have happened in relation to the criminal act that was commented on, I do not know. I just know that on my visit to the Oslo police night until the last Saturday, I got the policeman's opinion: she thinks she now had a good budget to work after. I got to see how the police in their work in Oslo have caused the open violence and the number of winning crimes to be reduced. This, of course, does not imply that the type of infringement taking place here is to take place. There's always something you can learn from this, which I know the police are constantly working on. I have the greatest confidence in the way both the police in Oslo and others now organize their efforts. The second part of the representative’s question concerns the position of the Resource Committee 4, which deals with the need for police posts up to 2005, i.e. six years from now, and is scheduled for 1900. There is an attitude that will, of course, be treated normally in the Ministry of Justice. In the case of opposition politicians Dørum's fresh statements, I remember it very well. But as a government council, I have a simple philosophy: I don't hand out money until I have it, and it happens as well as in the budgets that Stortinget is dealing with. Then you know what money is available, and the different batches can also affect the allocation. I have nothing more to say about that matter, except one relationship. Police have rightly been given many positions in recent years, and police have been paid better. That's good. But I am glad that there are many police officers who now also ask the question that has been asked for a number of years, for example. to health workers: what do you get out of taxpayers' money once you have received them? Many policemen — both at management level and elsewhere — now demonstrate by creative effort how they can get a lot out of them. I am also concerned about that side of the case, although the fight for the crowns is an important question, which the representative raised in his question to me.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e470	I have recorded that it is not very difficult for the Government to find funds for extra appropriations when there is a crisis in other countries, for example in Kosovo. That's all right. But then it should actually also be possible to find additional appropriations when there is a crisis in Norway and people are raped and robbed because there is not enough resources in the police. What has happened lately is that there are 75 new positions given to the Oslo Police Chamber, but no one to any other part of the country for the time being. On the other hand, these other police districts have reduced their operating budgets and have less money this year than they had last year. It has, among other things, the police officer in Sunnmøre has sent out a circular to his fellows, where he, among other things, writes: Expressions that would result in overtime use shall be restricted to life and health cases. So the police shouldn't be able to move out if there's a break-in. Does the Minister of Justice think that this is a sustainable situation, or will he show some action and do something to remedy this situation as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e477	Let me start by saying that -- how am I going to say this? Rape is an assault that cannot be defended. But I get a little upset when lines are drawn to Kosovo, where rape is actually used as a weapon of war to a significant extent. I wish the representative had failed to draw that comparison, because his case stood strong enough without bringing it in. When it comes to the situation of the police, I get into it by traveling around the country and looking at the situation in the various police districts. I'm going to keep doing that business. But it's like everyone has a duty to follow the budgetary framework that's available, and I've learned from the road sector, which I used to be responsible for, to meet librarians. I am therefore not unprepared to meet libertarian police officers. I expect them to speak with real strength if what they think is important. But it's like budgets are what you run by -- that's the money you have. The assessment I am making will be expressed when the budgets are discussed here in the Storting. That's how the representative can expect me to act in these contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e485	Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e488	I would like to return to Kosovo, and that is a question for the Prime Minister. I fully agree with the Prime Minister's description of the situation in Kosovo, also that even before NATO began bombing, there was an incipient genocide and that there were clear plans for ethnic cleansing. We have seen clear examples of this also in Bosnia, where thousands of thousands of people have had to pay with their lives because of a brutal dictator named Slobodan Milosevic. My question to the Prime Minister is then whether the Prime Minister and the Government will work for Milosevic in international forums before the war criminal court in The Hague, so that he is treated as a war criminal, which I believe he is.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e497	What I can say about that question is that information and material are collected on an ongoing basis in the context of the Yugoslavian War Court with a view to the possibility of being brought to justice when that time comes. I do not want to go beyond those who are named, but in general information and information is now being obtained for the purposes of as much legal proceedings as possible against those who are personally responsible for the facts which such a court is to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e502	I thank the Prime Minister for the answer and am pleased that an initiative is being taken in this matter, for what is one of the most tragic of all in such a situation, where Norway is involved in a war against a brutal regime, is that it is not the regime itself that is being hit – it is the innocent part of the population. What many think is very unfair and a great paradox is that those who are responsible for the upheavals are the ones who escape. So I ask if the Prime Minister agrees with my assessment and very many people's perception of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e507	I agree with that main assessment. That is what is the tragedy both in this and in other similar cases, that it is innocent, civilian, who suffers to a great extent from the untruths of others. These include: therefore one has a court of war, to take responsibility for those who have committed acts of infidelity against international law.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e512	Erik Solheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e515	I want to ask an additional question that may be at the edge of what the questioner asked for, but which still has a connection. The first great victim of the Milosevic regime's mercies was Bosnia. The next one is Kosovo. One possible third is Montenegro, and the situation there, as I see it now, is very serious. There is an incredible respect for Djukanovics against the situation, needed as he is, where everyone understands that NATO's bombing operations, which also affect Montenegro, are obviously – isolated in Montenegro – played in the hands of the most hard-boiled Serbian nationalists. So my question is whether there is anything we can do on the Norwegian side, on the OSCE side, or on the NATO side to protect the Montenegrin regime, to strengthen it, to support it, or to somehow help prevent Montenegro from becoming the next piece of Milosevic's game in the Balkans.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e522	The President agrees with Erik Solheim that this may have been at the extreme of the main question, but it is up to the Prime Minister to assess whether he will answer it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e525	I have so much appreciated Erik Solheim's clear views and commitment to this matter that I am more than willing to respond, also because I share his analysis of the situation. I'm very nervous about the development in Montenegro. The regime has respect for it, but it's under heavy pressure, and therefore the government is concerned about what we can do to support it, so that it won't be the next victim of Milosevic's deed. I know that our Foreign Minister, who is the President of the OSCE at the moment, is working on and is busy, and we will assess whether this is something we can do through it, possibly also in NATO, to stabilise the situation in Montenegro.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e530	Then there were no more main questions, and the time for the oral questioning is also over. We're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e536	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It is considered biphasic. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative of Unn Aarrestad to the Minister for Culture, will be raised by the representative of Marit Tingelstad. Question 3, from Mr Grete Knudsen's representative to the Minister for Food and Trade, must be postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 4, from the representative Signe Øye to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, who has left. Question 27, from the representative Jan Johnsen to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e554	This question, from the representative of Unn Aarrestad to the Minister for Culture, will be raised by the representative of Marit Tingelstad.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e557	I will ask the Minister for Culture the following questions: ‘In the evening post of 23 February 1999, sports and youth leaders have to spend a lot of time and energy on bureaucracy in connection with teams and organisations. Many parents also want to engage, but not fill out forms. What will the State Council do to reduce the form field now experienced by voluntary organisations?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e566	The representative of Tingelstad addresses his question on the search for voluntary activities at grassroots level. State aid schemes are designed to a small extent towards the local level and have traditionally been related to central umbrella organisations. Local teams and associations receive grants primarily through their own general units, municipalities and county councils. The representative of Tingelstad refers to an article in the Evening Post on 23 February 1999. The article refers to an opinion of one of the fires in Telemark Alpin. The article reads as follows: ‘Today, trainers and managers have to be roughly lawyers to handle the paper mill. The sport will lose if the bureaucratic system is not simplified. Many parents want to get involved, but not by filling out forms.’ The Ministry of Culture does not impose specific reporting and control requirements on the level of teams in Norwegian sport through the transfers of framework grants to the Norwegian Sports Association and the Olympic Committee. The Ministry presupposes that the framework grant is used to realise public sport objectives and to contribute to the realisation of ‘Freedom for all’. Voluntary organised sport does not appear to be as uniform as before. It is a fact that some teams and associations are engaged in business activities and that business-based forms of ownership and operation are established within sport. Nor is it unusual that sports teams have their own employees and sell too much annually. When local teams and associations choose such a device, this will necessarily entail extended and different responsibilities than before. In such cases, local teams and associations will have to deal with the demands made by public authorities to other employers, as well as with laws and guidelines such as: regulates tax and tax relations. Special reliefs for voluntary associations have been adopted in the above areas. Among other things, the registration limit is set at 140000 kroner in turnover and withdrawals, compared with 30 000 kroner for traders. Under certain rules, it is possible to split an organisation into distinct sub-groups with an impact on VAT. Special rules have also been laid down for traders providing services free of charge to NPISHs. Another example is that voluntary associations are not to calculate VAT on ticket revenue, normal membership and start-up quotas, government grants, lottery income, bingo incomes, gifts, etc. As a result, the country has made more efforts to reduce the form field for teams and associations at local level. Finally, I will take the opportunity to point out that the government through St.meld. No 44 for 1997-1998, proposals have been made to improve the framework conditions for the membership-based functioning of non-governmental organisations. It is this work that is the foundation of the local organisations. The government's proposals will benefit local teams and associations. In this context, it has been made an independent point that control mechanisms should not be established which could force non-governmental organisations to change their structure or their basic way of thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e584	I would like to thank the Council of State for the full answer, which includes: refers to the multiplicity of Norwegian sports movements — from the small clubs to the large, more commercial ones. There must of course be some different rules for these, I understand that. I notice that some important changes have been made, and that the Ministry does not impose specific requirements on the framework grants to the main organisations, but assumes that the funds are used for sport for all. Does the Council of State think that the above-mentioned form field, which parents and other volunteers strongly disapprove of, is mainly due to the practices and regulations of the main organisations themselves? If so, will the Minister for Sport take the initiative with the responsible actors with a view to minimising the form field so that the valuable work carried out by the voluntary actors can be carried out? As you know, this self-esteem represents values that go far beyond the activity itself, such as: the ability to create belongings in the community.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e593	I do not have the basis here and now to say that it is the main organisations or umbrella organisations that lead to this bureaucracy. This is a topic that we will come back to when the Storting will discuss the additional message for the voluntary service, as well as the voluntary service, later in the spring, and where there is some disagreement in the Storting on how the grant scheme for the local activities of voluntary organisations should be practised. In addition, I can inform you that we have started working on a report on sport that will come to Stortinget during the autumn. There, of course, we will also discuss how this is to be organised, precisely in order to strengthen the local work of the members in, in this case, the sports laws, and to ensure that the valuable efforts made give the result we want, and that it does not go to paperwork and the like.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e600	I thank the Council of State for this answer as well. I feel that there are some positive things going on and that there may also be other amendments in relation to the message that was now notified. It is incredibly important that we do not kill the initiative of individual parents and other volunteers who will make an effort for the important youth work around the city and the countryside. That's why I appreciate the Council's response this time, and hope this is part of the Government's philosophy of contributing to a simpler Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e609	I just want to agree with the representative that in this area, of course, we see the need for simplification and will try to contribute to it. Otherwise, I may be obliged to draw attention to the fact that a number of children's and youth organisations are subject to the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs and have special rules, including: as a result of the matter we had with subsidies to political youth organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e619	I allowed myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Culture: ‘In 1972 built Lærdal in Sogn, NRK built a cable system to allow viewers who could not get an ether signal to enter the current NRK1. This system, which is now owned by Norkring AS, is worn out and cannot provide good enough signals to the license-paying viewers. Will the Council of State arrange for this channel to be replaced free of charge so that these viewers can also accept the NRK1 broadcasts?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e626	The question from the representative Nistad has been referred to Norkring, who owns the plant in Lärdal. Norkring informs that the cable is approx. 2100 m, and shall cover the receipt of NRK1 for three subscribers. There must have been a problem with reception during a period when a private installer tried to pass on several channels on the cable. This attempt had to be completed, and the quality of the signal received should now be in order. Norkring further states that it is their responsibility to provide satisfactory quality for the receipt of NRK1, but that no problems have been reported to Norkring at the moment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e633	I thank the Council of State for your answer. If that's what the council says, I'm very happy about it. In Sogn Avis, who had a larger look at this particular case, they say that the cable is worn out, and that there is no possibility of having a new cable installed, and that they have encountered problems in Norkring. That Norkring says that they really don't know that anyone has complained about them, I can't understand, because when asked about Lärdal yesterday, to check whether the question had its topicality, I was told that the idea was the same as they were when the article was in Sogn Avis, and I asked the question. What's wrong, I don't know, but with that background I'm going to follow the case further, and I hope that the Council of State also checks that the answer she gave here is correct.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e640	I just have to show you the answer I gave. I would also like to stress that Norkring has informed me that it is their responsibility to provide satisfactory quality for the receipt of NRK1, but that no problems have been reported to Norkring at the moment. If it turns out to be a problem, we will have to pursue the matter further, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e655	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e661	This question, from the representative Signe Eye to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e664	I will allow myself to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘Since Ashim Rubber Technology Industry AS went bankrupt in March 1999, it has been working to save the rubber blend, which has been a profitable part of the company. Local investors have bid 2 million. crowns for the machinery so that the rubber blender can be driven on. SND, which has mortgaged the machines, has not wanted to sell for less than 2.5 million. krones. Will the Council of State take action to ensure that the mixture of rubber in Ashim with 12-15 jobs can be continued?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e671	As a mortgage holder in a bankruptcy dwelling, the SND shall seek to obtain the best possible business and district solutions, while ensuring the value of the pledge. The bankruptcy housing of SND in Askim Rubber Technology Industries includes, inter alia: a rubber blender. This mixture was offered for sale for 3.5 million after valuation by the valuer. kr. A Askim-based company, Investor Finanz AS, submitted two bids to the blender, the highest bid of which was 2 million. kr. Based on a wish to obtain a solution with continued operation of the mixture in Ashim, SND lowered its price requirement to 2.25 million. kr. This offer was not accepted by Investor Finanz AS. Investor Finans AS then withdrew both of its bids from the joint venture. On 26 March 1999, SND sent a new bid to Investor Finanz AS. The price requirement was now 2 million. kr on the assumption of cash settlement. Neither was this offer accepted by Investor Finanz AS. SND is currently working on finding new stakeholders for the blender. SND prefers it to be possible to find a solution with an interested person who plans to operate further in Askim. With regard to the role of the Minister of Industry in matters of this nature, it has been assumed since the establishment of the SND that the authority of the SND Board should not be limited by the influence or decision of the Ministry or Government in individual cases. I trust that the SND in this case will find a solution that best suits the different interests.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e686	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is good news that SND is still working on finding new stakeholders. When the Ashim Rubber Technology Industry went bankrupt in March, it was important to save the profitable part, and they have worked very intensively with this in the post-March period, because stopping production leads to the loss of customers. The SND representative has stated that what counts for the SND is getting the highest price for the machines. Thus, it seems that it does not matter whether the buyer intends to drive the rubber blend on, or, among other things, whether or not. the machinery is sold abroad. I think the role of SND in this case has been quite passive, because it is about small sums to resolve. Does the Minister of Justice think that SND has lived up to the name of the State Enterprise and Regional Development Fund in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e693	I'm not a business minister, but I get to use my general knowledge and say as follows: when something is worth 3.5 million. kr, and one receives a bid of 2 million. NOK, and one is willing to meet that offer for cash settlement, I think that a both has been practical and economically reasonable. I cannot perceive what has been done in this matter, other than that the SND, at the intersection of getting the most left for the values and at the same time finding a solution, has gone far. When it turns out that you're taking people on the word for $2 million. kr, does not last, and one continues to work, I have to say that one is not just practical. Then one is also persevering, and it confirms that the confidence that the Minister of Industry has in the SND is a trust that they are worthy of.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e698	It is clear that it is not that easy for the Minister of Justice to be in the place of the Minister of Economic Affairs. But I have an additional question about the emergency storage for rubber here in the country. Ashim Rubber technology has been a pre-deposit warehouse. If it is that this company cannot continue, we do not want such an emergency stock. Then I still dare to ask: Does the government now believe that it is no longer necessary to have such a spare coat for rubber here in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e705	I guess those in charge of preparedness always assess it. At last, some of that responsibility lies with me, but not everything. Of course, I will bring with me the question of the emergency storage facility, which I cannot answer on a standing footing, and I will also ensure that an overview of the situation of the emergency storage facility is sent to the representative. But I have to be allowed to repeat that it appears in my answer that there is actually a better bid from the SND than the questioner has brought with him. It turns out that when you give a bid to stakeholders who are in line with what they offer, it is not good enough. I have to say that it is good that SND does not actually give up, but continues to work to find a practical solution.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e715	I have the following questions for the Minister of Agriculture: ‘MUL imported meat from Botswana found residues of prohibited growth promoters, antibiotics and salmonella. This cheap meat is often used in restaurants and sold in supermarkets. This import presses the prices of Norwegian-produced meat, which then has to be exported on cheap sales. At the same time as meat imports from the MUL countries, Norway provides large sums of aid to the MUL countries. This has to be characterised as dubious u-help. What does the Council of State intend to do with this dilemma?"
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e724	The conditions relating to the import of meat from Botswana include, inter alia,: the requirement that residues of antibiotics should not be present in the meat and that the meat should not be derived from animals which have received growth promoters. The EU is also subject to the same conditions. No antibiotics or growth promoters have been detected during import controls in meat of Botswana. Like other MUL countries authorised for the export of meat to the EU and Norway, Botswana has a monitoring programme for ‘residues’. I am aware that the antibiotic chloramphenicol was detected in kidney samples and the hormone clenbuterol in bovine urine samples, which was tested in Botswana in 1995. However, the analytical values were below the maximum acceptable concentrations applicable to such samples. I am not familiar with the corresponding findings after 1995. Salmonella has been detected in fresh beef from Botswana in 1997 in three batches/consignments. The same number of detections was carried out in 1998. All six of these parties have been refused under Norwegian legislation. The GSP scheme is based on objectives and guidelines agreed by developed countries and developing countries at UNCTAD in 1970. The aim is to stimulate increased imports from developing countries, in particular from the least developed countries, which can be given particularly favourable conditions. The objective is to contribute to improving the opportunities for economic growth and development of developing countries through increased market access. In the context of the transition to a customs-based import protection for agricultural products in 1995, the Stortinget revised the guidelines of the GSP scheme. In St. prp. No 67 for 1997-98, the Government proposes that the current GSP system of duty-free imports of all products with the exception of cereals, flour and feed from the least developed countries should be continued in line with the Storting decision. Based on an overall assessment, which also emphasised the market situation, the Government proposed that safety mechanisms should be triggered if imports from MUL countries increased to 2 700 tonnes of boned beef per year. the years 1998 and 1999. This ceiling was not reached in 1998. In the position of the Economic and Social Committee on Agriculture, the majority of the Stortinget joined. At the same time, the Business Committee asked the Government to consider whether an auction system could be established for duty-free imports of beef from MUL countries. An assessment of the benefits and disadvantages of an auctioning system for imports of beef from MUL countries has been carried out by a working group composed of representatives from different ministries. The Government will report back to the Storting on this matter in the context of the proposal on the agricultural settlement or in the budget proposal for the year 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e743	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have been confirmed to some extent by what is on my mind, both on growth promoters and on salmonella, even though in 1995 too small values were found to stop the meat. Today, in the oral questioning process, we have been confirmed by Deputy Minister of Aid Hilde Frafjord Johnson that large sums of aid are being used in the MUL countries. Then I consider what is going on, a large-scale subsidisation of meat production in MUL countries, while subsidising meat production in Norway. We have to export the meat cheaply, and farmers are suspended because they dump meat abroad. Are we moving Norwegian meat production to developing countries at the time of subsidisation?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e750	As regards the issue of salmonella, it has been detected in three batches, but these have therefore been rejected so that they have not entered the Norwegian market. This shows that the control we have today is working. To take that year, we have imported approx. 139 lots, so there's no large part of this in which salmonella has been found. With regard to the fact that we are moving Norwegian meat production to MUL countries, there is probably too dramatic a situation to be described. That's about. 3 pst. of what is consumed in the Norwegian market through this type of import. So this is a choice that the Norwegian big business has made for, among other things. to contribute to and provide an opportunity for exports from countries that are sorely in need of it in relation to their economy, and must be seen in an overall context in relation to Norwegian aid policy as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e757	I thank you for your answer. For the farmers who are hit by media redundancies that say they dump a lot of meat abroad because of overproduction in Norway, this feels very hurt, and it feels offensive when they feel at the same time that we subsidize meat production in developing countries. Is that understood by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e764	I do not believe that we are subsidising meat production in these countries, but we are giving export opportunities for the production going on in these countries. In the case of Norwegian production, Norwegian farmers will also have to deal with the framework conditions laid down by Stortinget, and that is one of the prerequisites that we have to introduce into agricultural policy as such. I am aware that we have a higher output than what we have the market for at all times, but the industry also has a responsibility, one might say, to adapt to the framework conditions laid down by the Stortinget. And this is to deal with the decision of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e774	I have the following questions for the Minister of Defence: ‘Food, munitions and bivuack have always been important for the combat capability of the army, based on as much Norwegian deliveries as possible. The defense is now going to produce its uniforms in the East, probably because this is cheaper. In addition to defending the country, the defence also has an employment responsibility, and the production of clothing and tents for the Defence should have been carried out by Norwegian suppliers. Is the Council of State satisfied that this production takes place in the East, at the expense of Norwegian jobs which this production could have raised?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e783	In St. prp. No 8 for 1997-98, the reclassification proposal, which was dealt with in the Stortinget in December 1997, explained to the Ministry of Defence a new regime for the acquisition of teco- and footwear by the Defence. In this respect, it is clear, among other things, that: acquisitions take place under public procurement legislation of the EEA Agreement. This implies that the Ministry of Defence proposes that the acquisitions be made as far as possible in open international competition. In the case of products indispensable for defence purposes under Article 123 of the EEA Agreement, exemptions may be made if this does not affect the market for products not directly intended for military purposes. The defence acquis requires the choice of the most favourable offer for the State. This will also be the general rule in future acquisitions of the Defence. Increased requirements for efficient use of resources indicate that the defence selects the supplier(s) who meets the minimum cost requirements of the material. I cannot therefore take action to ensure that Norwegian companies are specifically awarded contracts in addition to what the legislation opens. However, I would like to make it possible for Norwegian suppliers, when they are competitive, to deliver to the Defence Agency. This also applies to tea products. As far as production in the East is concerned, it is not the case that the defence today acquires uniforms produced in this area, but I will not rule out that this can be the case if price and quality indicate that it will be most advantageous.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e792	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I register that everything is now going to be tendered, including the main elements of the Defence and, in particular, the army's defence capabilities. Today, we are seeing an increasing conflict in the Balkans. Important elements such as clothing, tents, food and ammunition should have been secured through self-sufficiency, so that in the future we do not become dependent on a supply line that, in a war situation, can collapse. I mean, as I said in my first question, that these are some of the most important elements of the army's defense. I do not see what the Council of State has said as reassuring.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e799	I have difficulties dealing with a code other than what has been adopted in Stortinget, without there being very good reason to deviate. And the deviations that have been made, and that were suggested in St.prp. No 8 for 1997-98, relates to five products for the Norwegian industry. These include pants, jackets, boots, anti-squatting waistcoats and battle vests, including those in the battle vests. This has also been accepted by others, but there was a discussion as to whether it was possible to exempt at all some of the products of the tea industry from free calls, in accordance with Article 123 of the EEA Code. So there are exceptions today, but I intend otherwise to deal with the legislation that the Storting has adopted. I note that the representative Bastesen does not think that is enough, but that is my practice in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e809	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘A survey in Oslo Schools shows that there are increasing numbers of students in possession of weapons and other dangerous tools in school everyday life. What will the Council of State do on that occasion?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e818	The government has given the fight against crime a high priority. This applies in particular to the fight against violence. Developments in school are worrying, and will be followed with great attention from my side. I am also familiar with the study in Oslo schools that is the basis of the representative's question to me. On this basis, and also on other issues, I have taken the initiative to hold a meeting with representatives of the Municipality of Oslo, the Oslo Police District and the teachers' organisations. This meeting will take place tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e828	I allow myself to ask the following questions to Minister of Justice Dørum: ‘Accommodation of media in recent years shows that the problem of misuse of Norwegian passports is increasing. The use of passports has almost doubled from 1997 to 1998. It is claimed that 96 000 Norwegian passports are being diverted. According to the director of the Kripos Foreign Office, the abuse occurs in connection with illegal immigration and crime. What will the Government do to resolve the problems of misuse of Norwegian passports and Norwegian passports?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e837	I assume that the claim that passport abuse has almost doubled from 1997 to 1998 is based on figures from the Annual Report of the Office of Criminal Police, which shows that the number of registered cases with false passports or travel documents has increased from 49 in 1997 to 81 in 1998. However, this need not mean that the actual abuse has had a corresponding increase. I otherwise agree that falsification of Norwegian passports poses a problem by using such passports as a means of carrying out illegal acts. This is a known issue and applies to all forms of identification documents, including driving licences and bank cards. The Ministry of Justice’s efforts to prevent counterfeiting of Norwegian passports have focused primarily on the development of a secure passport form. This work has now resulted in the Ministry of Justice starting a test project with machine-readable passports in March 1999. For the time being, only in the Drammen police districts such passports are issued, while three other police districts will follow in a short time. The Ministry of Justice has registered that today’s passport form, with a laminated personalia page on the inside of the perme, has not provided sufficient security against counterfeiting. For this reason, the Ministry of Justice, in connection with the test project on machine-processable passports, has put in place a passport form which provides significant security against falsification. From what is known today, it shall not be possible to falsify such passports without leaving tracks that will be easily detected during the check. In the light of the experience gained from the pilot project, the Ministry of Justice will decide on the type of passport form to be used for the introduction of machine-readable passports on a national basis. It should otherwise be emphasised that the development towards increased use of machine-readable passports will also make it possible in the long term to detect attempts at the use of stolen or lost passports in the passport controls. It is widely known that the misuse of genuine passport documents poses a greater problem than the use of counterfeiting. Finally, let me mention that it is issued annually approx. 300000 passports in Norway. Of the above, approximately 96 000 Norwegian road passports are mainly related to passports that have been reported as lost by the owner over the past few years or where the owner does not find his passport again.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e850	I thank the Minister of Justice for a positive response. As you know, passports are an extremely important document giving access to a number of fundamental rights here in Norway. It is also a document that is said to have a high market value on the criminal market. I thank the Minister of Justice for his positive follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e857	I just want to confirm to the representative Danielsen that it is absolutely right that Norwegian passports have such a status. I have recently seen a visit to the Oslo Police Department on how they work to clean up such issues, and have also seen the international cooperation routines developed to see through and reveal both false passports and abuse of real passports as quickly as possible. I would like to stress again that this is a priority matter from my side.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e865	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘Does the Council of State agree that officials of the Ministry are publicly punishing police officers who inform of the consequences of the adopted budget and the distribution of operational resources to the police?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e872	This question of question time seems to be due to the fact that the head of the police department in a new head of police, who is an internal journal published by the Department of Justice, stated that the police districts' dissatisfaction with this year's budget allocation is not the basis for creating public fear and anxiety that assistance in an emergency cannot be expected. He pointed out, among other things: also the same place as the obvious fact that police districts have no access to add up to a higher level of activity than allocated budgets allow. A few quotes from the head of police news are given in the evening post on Thursday 8 April. The Council of State is both constitutionally and parliamentaryly responsible for all the powers exercised in his department. All decisions shall be taken on his behalf. The Council of State has full authority to instruct and transform in relation to all decisions within the Ministry. In the Rules of Procedure of the Departments' Organisation and Procedure given at kgl. Resolution of 30 November 1984, attempts have been made to draw a distinction between political leadership and permanent employment with regard to the division of labour. In addition, the comment on the regulation states that there should be no sharp limit. There is a need for some flexibility in the distribution of work. The Ministry shall assume the overall responsibilities of the Police and Liaison Committee. These tasks have been added in the Department to the Police Department, headed by a Head of Mission. Through the control and instruction of the police and officers' seat, the Department of the Police Department, and once again the Council of State, shall ensure that the use of police resources in the individual police districts is correct in relation to the objectives and priorities set for the establishment by the Government and the Government. It is also the responsibility of the Police Department to ensure that the police districts deal with allocated budget frameworks. In what I have said above, it is that officials in the department are fully entitled to do so when they point to the duty of police officers or other officials in the police and county councils to perform a police service in accordance with politically agreed priorities. Let me add – since there is freedom of speech in this country and since I am also familiar with the phenomenon of libertarians – that I also know the phenomenon of libertarian police officers, but libertarian police officers can never put aside the simple fact that a budget is a budget to which you relate. And the budgets are dealt with in the budget procedure in Stortinget. That's where the framework is set, and that's within the framework you have to act. So when a dispatch manager says the natural thing is that this is how the frames are to be kept, he simply does his job. When others express themselves about how they experience the world, they are within the point of intersection so that they can express themselves, as I know that loyal police officers always balance with the loyalty they have, and as I know they follow in relation to the chain of responsibility in which they have their place, and the commanding authority they have. I have no reason to doubt any of these circumstances, and I have through travel the short time I have been Minister of Justice, experienced how the police force, with police officers, can speak both clearly and clearly, and at the same time be able to act loyally and tidyly with the resources made available. The principal answer is: Heads of Mission always speak with the voice of the Council of State, even if it is not the voice of the Council of State that is physically expressed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e891	I would like to thank you for your answer. In the name of freedom of expression, it may be allowed – even for a representative of a magnificence – to express that I believe it could have certain advantages if the opinion of the Council of State is expressed by the Council of State, and not by his ministerial staff, in so far as sensitive matters such as this are concerned. In the fight that has been on the police budgets, we have actually been totally dependent on the police telling us about the consequences of the budgets that have been adopted. It's going to be difficult, almost impossible, if it's going to be the way a police officer is going to be allowed to go out – as we had an example of in a previous Question Time – and tell him that the budgets are such that he has to encourage people not to report all crime. Then, the next moment, you will experience that there will be a basis for punishment when he tells about the consequences of the budgets that he is being allocated.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e900	Of course, it is a matter of course and absolutely necessary that the representatives of bigots are both direct, clear-spoken and intensely researching. Our whole democracy rests on it. But when that is said, and the Stortinget has taken its budgetary decisions, then the Council of State is responsible for it. The Council of State shall present the budget, the Council shall examine it, and he shall be responsible for the budget adopted. Within that budget there are lines that you have to deal with. So there might be an open political assessment whether to think anything about what this looks like in practice, it's a fair case. My view of the police budgets is that they have rightly increased in recent years, and that police officers have rightly been paid better, but it is also an objective requirement regardless of this – and regardless of the fight for the crowns – to ask the question: How do citizens get the best value for their money? I experience in meeting Norwegian police officers that this is a problem they are very concerned about, and they also deliver good results. I have the best impression of the establishment, and I intend to reinforce those impressions by intensifying my travel activity. I'm simply inspired to travel around and meet exciting policemen who do their job on the ground plane.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e907	It is important that we are both clear-thinking and clear-spoken here. I find it difficult to fully understand what is in the Council's response. I perceive the Council of State there – I ignore the natural thing that he expresses recognition to the Norwegian police, something else should be lacking, they do an absolutely excellent job – that he repeats and reinforces the criticism that his chief of expedition came with to the police officers in order that they express themselves as they did, as it was referred to in the evening post. I just want to establish that there is a real disagreement between the Council of State and the undersigned. I think it is absolutely excellent that the police are using the freedom of expression mentioned by the Council of State to say clearly from when the consequences are going to have to be as they are in themselves, with the scarce budgets that the majority of the population are willing to give to the police.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e914	Since this is going to be incredibly precise, I'm going to contribute further to it. The dispatch manager is in his full right when he says that it's a natural thing to deal with the budgets adopted. The dispatch manager has done that, and of course I fully support him in that. Then we have the situation that police officers sometimes find reason to express their views. They have the right to do that. It is my impression that they are balancing this right with the responsibility they have to be loyal to adopted budgets. I repeat, it's my impression that they're doing it. And it's also my impression that even though people may be different, we have a corps doing their job, and then it gets to be a tension relationship with whether there's enough resources or not -- it's a fair political discussion. However, regardless of the political discussion one must expect to adhere to adopted budgetary frameworks and to do its utmost to get full currency for tax money. I feel that the latter is also happening, with many exciting experiments all around in Police Norway, and I perceive that the Department of Justice's police department has the same impression, not least the Head of Mission who is here the starting point for the discussion. And of course he has my full trust.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e924	I will be allowed to ask another question to the Minister of Justice: ‘According to a consultation note, the Ministry of Justice, based on the Arms Act, considers the introduction of the registration of air rifles, which are used, inter alia, as a competitive weapon. In shooter circles, there is a strong response to another attempt to red tape and to suspect legal use of weapons for sports or leisure purposes, rather than focusing on illegal arms teams used for crime. Will the Council of State ensure that this intervention is stopped against a widespread and lawful sport and competition article?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e933	In view of the increasing use of hail and stronger air and spring weapons in serious criminal offences, the Ministry of Justice of Ot.prp proposed. No 13 for 1989-90 to provide legal support for the imposition of registration obligations on hail and for the strengthening of air and spring weapons. Int. O. No 19 for 1989-90, the Judicial Committee joined the Ministry's draft legislative amendments. The obligation to register has subsequently been imposed on hail acquired after 1 October 1990. In view of the fact that developments have shown that some modern weapons of air and feathers have become so powerful that they constitute a high risk potential if used irresponsibly, the Ministry has found reason to suggest that the most powerful weapons of air and feathers should be subject to registration. It is clarified in the proposal for amendments to the Arms Regulation that authorisation to acquire the most powerful firearms and firearms may only be granted to persons who meet the general requirements for vice and personal property. It is further clarified that there is no need to provide further justification for the need for those types of weapons. The Ministry's proposal means that all shooters who comply with the standards of good repute will be able to acquire the weapons of air and feather they wish for their activities. I cannot see that the proposal will lead to any action other than that those who want to acquire this type of weapon must have a permit from the police, which will be granted to all law-abiding shooters.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e940	I would like to thank you for the answer, an answer that I am in no way satisfied with, but that is another matter. I would like to ask the Council of State if he is aware of the very strong reactions in the sports shooters' mile that the regulations of the new Arms Act are being met. In one of the journals of the Norwegian sports shooter environment, the title reads: ‘You are now at trial.’ Sports shooters, hunters and weapons collectors, i.e. defined law-abiding citizens of the Kingdom of Norway shall now be sentenced to criminal activity, where the criminals will continue to live their uninfected life without the influence of weapons laws and regulations. This is perceived by people as per. The definition is – I fully agree with the leading article – among the most law-abiding in Norway. They perceive it this way themselves, and it is not entirely unimaginable in this context either that the person with the shoe knows best where it prints. We state councils are doing something to restore confidence in this important environment?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e949	I am happy to talk to representatives of this environment. I look at those who are shooting like sports or who in other contexts have weapons here in Norway, as exemplary citizens. We have a very high number of weapons in Norway compared to, for example, a country as large as the United States, and we can see that culture is very different. And when culture is very different, it's because we have good people doing this. After my meeting with these environments, I know they're good people. When the authorities ask for a simple registration, it is not in order to bring anyone to justice, but because in the social debate, not least by representatives of the representative Hernæs" party, we are required to make sure that we know where the weapons are, and in most cases it is simple registration. In some extreme cases where someone abuses trust, it is good that we know that. After all, it's not like criminals go free, most of the activity we do intends to make sure they don't go free. And we have a number of things to deal with to make sure they don't go free. Last night – independent of weapons – we decided to take tough action against organized crime, and the representative Hernæs knows very well about it, just like I do.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e956	I am inconceivable that the Council of State claims that he will maintain a good relationship with this important environment that the gunner movement represents. However, when he claims that he has a good relationship, I am – in question – concerned about whether, in the short time he has had the opportunity to act as Minister of Justice, he has really had the opportunity to have contact with these environments. That's what I'm now saying, an indication that that's not the case. The reactions are very strong. I, of course, take the opinion of the Council of State in full seriousness and in the best possible sense. And I want as much as I can, encourage him to seek contact with these environments. I think he will receive a response that is quite clear: the practice here and the proposal for a new weapon law that is out at the hearing are almost perceived as a declaration of war in the broad circle of the shooter movement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e965	In order not to be misunderstood in any form, I will repeat it again: I meant to express that I have the best impression of the Norwegian shooter environment. I meant to give it a very strong certificate based on past experience. So I said that as a state councillor, of course, I haven't been able to confirm it during the time I've been a Minister of Justice, so it's a past impression, but I haven't experienced anything in the short time I've been a Council of State, which has weakened that impression. I went on to say in the post that with pleasure I met representatives of an environment that acts responsibly – that is my impression – and then I briefly explained my reasons why I found the registration proposed here, necessary, and which I believe is no problem for the massive and overwhelming majority of law-abiding citizens that we are dealing with in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e976	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘According to a survey in the Evening Post On March 3, 1999, user surveys in the Loan Box show that around 80 pst. customers in the Loan Fund do not know their rights if, for example, they become ill, pregnant or ill. What will the Council of State do to correct this?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e985	I don't want to detract from the information published in the press about what students most know about the rules that apply when they get sick, have children or are injured. But I have been informed by Lånekassa that the question in the user survey was asked so that the students would notice on a scale how much they knew about the schemes. So it's not about 80 pst. which does not recognise that the schemes exist. This is an important contrast that has been lost in the presentations of things in the media. I think it's important that those who need it know that there is a system, and that they can get closer to it when it comes to it. Here, Loan Box does a good job. For example, the papers suggest that a Norwegian student in the United States who was injured in her back in January now sought guidance in Lånekassa and was informed of the rules for converting loans to scholarships in case of illness. And when it applies e.g. the birth grant, the application form asks if the applicant is expecting children during the year of instruction. In doing so, she is provided with the treatment results with the necessary information about what she needs to do in order to receive the birth grant. Every year, Lånekassa sends brochures to all the schools, including: the specific arrangements applicable to sickness, parturition and disability have been mentioned. In addition, there are just such liberal temptations to claim benefits. On written material sent from Loan Box, etc. on the application forms received every year by all students and elephants, the address of the Lånekassa Internet pages, all of which are mentioned, and the number of the automatic telephone service where brochures and forms can be ordered. In addition, each school shall have personnel responsible for providing relevant information to students and students. These informants are each invited to a briefing meeting where the Loan Box makes good use of the legislation and changes that have been made. So there is a great deal of work to be done today to inform the customers in the Loan Box. The Loan Fund provides information that a gradual development of the information pages on the Internet is planned with the aim of becoming the most important information channel for elephants and students in a few years' time. In addition, the Loan Box has indicated that the user survey is now being conducted with a view to possible further action. I want to follow closely the development of the information business in the Loan Box, but I would still like to remind you that there is a budgetary question about how much the Loan Box will spend on information measures. It has also been suggested that the lack of knowledge about the arrangements may be due to the complexity of the rules, and I have taken steps to do something about them. I got a selection last year to look at the rules in the Loan Box, and so on. place emphasis on simplification. The selection shall report until 1 November of this year. But we should be aware that large simplifications can go beyond the consideration of special rules for weak groups.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1005	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer – it was a useful clarification the Council of State could provide. Clearly, we agree that there is a valuable feature of the Loan Fund that there are social arrangements. Especially at a time when there has been some concern about the level of interest rates in the Loan Fund, it has been important to bring forward these social arrangements that contribute to making the Loan Fund what it is: not a bank incidentally owned by the State, but an educational policy instrument. Unfortunately, it is still a problem that very many people have payment problems. In 1998, there were over 376 million. The number of debt collection cases increased from 33 000 in 1997 to 38 200 in 1998. So it's natural to ask, is if the state council thinks there might be some relationship between the large number of customers with payment problems and the information the loan fund gives about rights. In my view, it will be necessary to examine whether there is such a link, to see if it is possible to reduce the need for debt collection by providing better information on payment facilities. Although this is a budgetary question, there may be reason to ask whether it can be worthwhile using less debt collection – if you get better information.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1014	I am pleased to note that the representative Konglevoll and I have agreed that Lånekassa should continue to be a training policy tool. It was important when we decided on the fixed interest rate scheme, that these special arrangements should be at the bottom. I shall not ignore the fact that the representative Konglevoll has a point when she says that there is a connection between information and debt collection. However, the last user survey shows that there is a radical improvement in the view of the Loan Box from the users' side compared to the previous one a few years ago. This means that the information has been much better, and that a person experiences the service as better. Nevertheless, there is still considerable potential for improvement. If the problem that has arisen here is part of the user survey, I should not have said anything about it, but I will include it in the regular dialogue we have with the Loan Box in relation to these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1026	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘The 1999 State Budget from the Ministry of Church, Education and Research states: ‘The Ministry will carry out a review of the student’s working environment.’ How far has the Ministry progressed in this review and what preliminary conclusions has the Council of State drawn?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1035	I'm busy working for both the members and students of the educational institutions. We have therefore worked to ensure that regulations on health, environmental and safety work in enterprises, the abbreviation of the HMS, are implemented by all our institutions. We have taken the cases up in the letters of assignment, and last year we arranged a fall in health, the environment and the security of those responsible at the institutions. Both this regulation and the environmental law apply to the institutions, but improvements in their physical working environment will also provide indirect improvements in the students' working environment. The Law on Universities and Universities states that institutions are responsible for their learning environment. This section sets out the institutional requirements to ensure that the physical and mental working environment is not an obstacle to a good learning environment. Other laws regulate the working environment of students, including: planning and building laws and fire protection laws. There is no doubt, however, that students have poorer employment relationships than they do at institutions. From the preliminary results of the life-cycle review of students conducted by the Statistical Central Bureau (SSB) in 1998, it appears that students are slightly plagued by noise, but that there are about 40 pst. which is dissatisfied with air quality. That's 25 pst. of the students are not satisfied with the space allocated. The review also showed that about 60 pst. The number of students is slightly higher for professional training and for students to a higher degree. These numbers give us a clue as to how the situation is, but there will be more numbers and discussions in the final report of the Statistical Central Bureau in May this year. It may be useful to get numbers from the SSB that are broken up into institutions, as there are probably differences between institutions. In addition to the material provided by the institutions as part of the basis for their quality development work, such information will be useful. Quality development and student welfare are also the themes of the department's office management meeting with all institutions before the summer. The ministry has thus started to look at the working environment of students, but it is currently too early to draw any final conclusions. As soon as the final report of the Statistical Central Bureau is available, the Ministry will assess the need for additional information and how this information will be monitored by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1046	I would like to thank you for your answer. I guess I didn't really expect any conclusions yet. But when I ask about this, it's because it's interesting to find out if this is a review for the review, or if the Council of State has any action in mind. The answer is that if the working environment is found to be poor, it is here intended to follow up and investigate it further. The Council of State also said in the answer that it is already known that students have a worse working environment than employees. It is therefore natural to expect that such a review will reveal that there is a job to do in the area. We have e.g. recently seen that the University of Oslo has not complied with the fire regulations. I would like to ask again whether the Council of State intends to follow up the sample of measures if it turns out that the working environment is not satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1057	It is not as I understand it that the representative, Mr Konglevoll, concluded that this is a review for the sake of the review, because it has already led to changes in management conversations and in other communications we have with the institutions. We need the final report before I can tell you what to do. However, there is no doubt that there is a need for action. It is too early to say whether the exit will be a proposal for a law, or whether one will give priority to other measures. I agree with Mr Konglevoll that there will obviously be a need for action, but we need to give priority within the framework we can manage to find important actions in higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1064	I would like to thank you for your answer. I was going to ask about this by following up with a law, so it's positive that the Council of State opens up to assess it. Neither students nor students have a legal right to a good working environment. In fact, students are like, for example, have laboratory education, protected by the ordinary Working Environment Act, but they have no right to complain to, for example: a supervisory board. A student work environment law, e.g. a student environmental law could improve the legal protection of students. I don't have a question, but I look forward to getting the Council of State's assessment of this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1073	I'm overconfident that with the commitment that the representative Konglevoll has when it comes to these questions, the council will probably have to clarify what he's going to do. It's good that this is followed up from Stortinget's side. Some of the first thing I got done was to start this investigation, and I thought it was good. Part of what is also improved in the governance dialogue is important. But then we're going to move on, and there are the biggest challenges. We'll be able to come back to them.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1083	I allow myself to ask the following questions to Minister of Church, Education and Research Jon Lilletun: ‘Circulation F 96-98 has caused damage, among other things, to the municipality of Sveio in Hordaland in order to base the training law on the treatment of the closure of primary schools — even if the training law cannot be considered to have entered into force for this purpose, which is also confirmed by the county after legal review. Will the Council of State take the initiative in clarifying which parts of the Training Act have entered into force?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1092	At kgl. Resolution of 27 November 1998 provided for the entry into force of the Training Act on 1 August 1999, including: one important exception: the law was immediately put into effect for individual decisions and regulations which set out rights and obligations for students from the academic year 1999-2000. The municipalities and municipalities were informed of the decision in their own circular dated 30 November 1998. In my opinion, the circular provides clear information on how municipalities should proceed when deciding on their rights and duties. In addition, the Ministry informs the municipalities through the State Education Office. Decisions on training in the municipality of Sveio on 7 December 1998 have been for legal control at the State Education Office in Hordaland. The Education Office found that the decision was legal. That it had been unclear which rules would apply to the proceedings in the municipality, according to the education office's assessment, had nothing to say about the outcome of the proceedings. There may be some formal errors in a transitional period between new and old laws. The questions that arise during a transition period between the two legal acts are many and can be difficult to solve through multiple letters from the ministry. I want to focus on and help guide the local authorities about the laws in the future. In this context, I have more faith in concrete guidance from the education offices of those municipalities that have questions about the transitional arrangements. This is a work that will go too far in the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1103	I would like to thank the Council of State for a thorough answer. In addition, I would like to ask questions about the ‘carrying principle’. It is a guiding principle that cases are to be decided when they are adequately elucidated. The principle as such cannot be less important in the setting up of schools in the districts. Will the Council of State take the initiative to clarify, if possible, this important principle also in matters relating to school? A good start would, in my opinion, be that, in terms of something so serious for children as school leaving, a impact study is being prepared based on both economics, proximity, knowledge dissemination and the preservation of viable urban centres in the short and long term.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1112	I believe that the new training law is more than the previous guarantee that parents will be able to express themselves. Now it's introduced into the laws as a directive, it wasn't before. There is no doubt that many parents in such cases have felt that they have had problems knowing what help they can get, what procedures they can demand, and what impact they can have. I have, together with the Minister of Municipal Affairs, had a meeting with the Landslag for the unadulterated and few-parted schools. After the meeting, I invited the leader and others from this country to attend a meeting with the education directors, where the education directors were made aware of how many parents felt about this. It was to try to give a greater understanding of parental service in such matters from the educational offices. That is why I think we have seen some measures to strengthen the situation of parents in connection with such proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1121	I am pleased that the Council of State has taken steps to ensure parental participation. But that was actually not what this question was about. The municipality’s obligation to carry out impact assessments during a procedural period was concerned. And the Council of State is probably not of the opinion that land matters need impact assessments, while the safety and growth of children are less important.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1126	I will give the representative any right that the answer was a little on the side of what she asked for, but I believe it is important information in relation to the intention and what the representative Evje is busy about, namely the right of parents in this context. According to the municipality, it is doubtful whether one can say that the municipalities will operate with the kind of consequence that the representative Evje now wants. Nevertheless, I will not say either yes or no on the standing foot. What I want to say is that I'm going to take the problem back. So I'll give the representative a written answer based on the problem she raised, because I'm not safe enough when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1136	I would like to ask the Minister of Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘In Oslo, they allocate pupils to the various secondary schools on the basis of the characteristics of primary schools. [[all courses of study]] The schools are listed in the school catalogue at the lower limit of points. There's a lot of variation in the lower boundary. This will lead to the most motivated and theoretical groups being gathered at specific schools. It will create a bad learning environment in schools with the least school-motivated. Does the Council agree that this could undermine the right to an equivalent school offer?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1145	The representative Reikvam asks a question that points to a number of interesting problem options. The system practised by Oslo has given rise to a lot of debates on the education and learning environment. There are different opinions on how to use the individual school, where it is practically possible to choose between several schools, to practice. As long as Oslo distributes the students within the framework of the laws and regulations, I see no need to interfere in the county administration. The representative Reikvam asked if I have agreed that this could undermine the right to an equivalent school offer. To that I will answer a boat – and. If the systems used in Oslo lead to the most powerful students being treated, for example, to the best teachers, the quality of supply could be claimed to be systematically distorted. We also know from international research that heterogeneous groups, i.e. groups where both strong and weak elephants are combined, where collaborative learning is an important method, have a greater development potential than homogeneous groups. To put it another way, strong and weak elephants will benefit from each other when they work together in training, so that they both learn more than if they were separate. On the other hand, Oslo also complies with the rights set to provide legal redress where the training they formally require. I also assume that Oslo, with the input system they have set up, is doing everything possible to give the schools that get the weakest students as optimal learning conditions as possible to compensate for the potential loss of the pupils under the input scheme that has been put in place. When the system that Oslo practises is different from the rest of the country, I want to focus on what experience they have with such a system. I want this kind of information, too. could get through the good and constructive dialogue that I feel I have with the Municipality of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1156	I guess I have to thank you for the answer. I might have waited for some more reflections around the system that they have in Oslo. I also know the law and know that the Council of State has limited possibilities to impose a different system of admission on them. I have a fairly good knowledge of that. But some reflections about the consequences of this admission system that they use, I had actually hoped that the council had spent a little more time on. He said it was both — and in terms of disadvantages or whether this could undermine the right to an equivalent school offer. In that, as the Council of State said, there is an opportunity for this to be part of and undermine – I perceived it despite all this – he should have reflected quite thoroughly on this. In a research report from NOVA, Report 20/98, it is said, among others. the functioning of the Oslo system of admission so that national targets for equivalent school provision cannot be met. Then my follow-up question becomes to the Council of State: From what the Council of State said and from what NOVA here says, does the Council of State see it so that we should consider changing the law to prevent this development?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1165	As the polite man the representative Rikvam is, he thanked for the answer even if he was in doubt. When it comes to the substance of the comments, it is true that neither Reikvam nor the Council of State think that the department should override the county councils when they adhere to the laws and regulations. On the other hand, in my answer I said a lot about what gave the best learning outcomes, and the answer also stated that I was worried about this way of doing it. But I said at the same time that I wanted to have a dialogue with Oslo about it, because once Oslo has implemented a system, I think it's reasonable that we evaluate how it works, before we possibly see if the laws should be streamlined. I thought that it was a concern of something, not a basis for a change in the law. There must be facts that provide that basis.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1172	Now I think it's getting a little bit interesting. There are facts to decide what to do, if any! I agree with the Council of State on that. But there are actually some facts about it, and I referred to one report. I am a little concerned about how the Council of State intends to pursue this matter. Will he start some different projects, or is it just a simple dialogue he's going to have with the Oslo Municipality? I am a little busy to know a little more about how he will follow this up in relation to the Municipality of Oslo. In principle, I also agree with the Council of State that there is concern about a law that we override the county municipalities in that kind of question. But if the knowledge we're now collecting and the knowledge we already have shows that this system can undermine the equivalent school provision, we have to do something. We have hope of good will first, but at least we have to take action if it turns out that this undermines the law.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1181	I am pleased that the representative Rikvam no thought it started to be interesting. That was a step forward. I don't want to think that we have the knowledge we need to intervene per. date. There is an assessment of how such a system will work, as I believe NOVA has given. We need to know what the result is. Oslo also has projects to measure it. So in my contact with Oslo, I want to follow up a dialogue on how a person is going to make these assessments, and I also want to raise some concerns. Based on other debates we are currently having, we are going to have a local self-government, and then it is important that we find the balance between local self-government and the safeguarding of equivalency.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1191	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Church, Education and Research. ‘The size has decided to carry out a thorough review of the situation in the field of IT in order to adapt education capacity to future needs. What has the Council of State done to follow this up?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1198	It is a major challenge to meet the needs of ICT skills in society and work and to have a capacity within education and training tailored to future needs. IT and other technological competences are a decisive factor in innovation and economic growth. The focus on IT in education must be on all levels and disciplines. Within the framework of continuing training, it is agreed to establish a new field of education, the ICT business subject, to be launched as of August 1999. On behalf of the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research, the Central Bureau of Statistics has carried out studies on IT in basic and continuing training in 1997 and IT in teacher training in 1998. When it comes to right-wing education, there are different documents and developments with assessments of training capacity needs within IT. Such assessments include: by the Directorate of Labour, the Norwegian University Council, the Norwegian Institute for Studies and Education — NIFU — and in a series of documents from the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Surveys of educational needs in these documents have been part of the basis for the IT effort in right-wing education. Education capacity within IT is also assessed in the Storing Communication on the principle of the dimensioning of right-wing education to be provided in spring. It has been the last years that new places of study have been allocated to IT studies. The largest investment was in 1998 when 835 places of study were allocated. The allocation of new places of study made it possible to ensure the best possible regional distribution. The increase in recording continued in 1999. This shall be done in the event of redispatching by the institutions and in the allocation of 515 new study places. In addition to this initiative, a number of higher education institutions have also relocated their capacity to various IT studies from studies where there have been open-ended places of study. The Polytechnic Højskulen has also seen strong growth in IT education, thus helping to meet the needs. Girls have much less than boys have applied for the long IT studies. NTNU therefore created a separate quota for girls in 1997, in line with computer technology, and 36 girls were recorded on it. The project continued in 1998 and 1999. Over the past four years, the ministry has also raised 1 million. DKK per year for various research and development projects in the field of girls and IT. to stimulate increased recruitment. The demand for IT skills is fluctuating, depending on the economic cycle. Not many years ago, the demand was relatively weak, while the need for skilled labour has been greater than the availability of skilled labour in recent years. New signals from the world of work and studies on economic developments show that the future demand is uncertain. It takes several years before the escalation of right-wing IT education results in a corresponding increase in the number of candidates. It is now possible, therefore, that in a few years' time there will be far more people with right-wing IT education than today. There has been a lot of focus in recent years on the education of IT specialists. There is also a need for increased activity in a broader field and towards a larger target group. It is possible to integrate IT into a range of subjects and trainers. Furthermore, more and more institutions are developing independent IT studies for different target groups, such as economists, teachers and health and social professionals. There is room for further strengthening in this field. IT developments need to be monitored separately, including: by intercepting signals from – and through collaboration with – work and business and others. The aim is, of course, to enable educational institutions to meet the need for IT skills through a wide and varied range of services.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1219	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, which was a fairly straightforward review of what has happened in the last few years to strengthen IT education. There's something that all the parties have been more or less assembled about here in the hall, and it's very good that there hasn't been a violent political polemic around this. But I miss a little thought and vision in the future. Can the Council of State be interpreted to mean that it is in combination training that he sees growth coming? I guess that's about all I managed to get out of new things you looked forward to. When will the thorough review requested by the Stortinge be carried out, and when will something concrete come out of it? Will the Storting get this treatment, or will there be something to do in an action plan or something like this in the department? I miss something a little bit more forward-looking: what's going to happen in the future, and in what way are we going to ensure that we get a training capacity that is in line with the demand that's out there in society?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1226	I think it is quite right, as the representative Norvoll said, that it has our big cross-political agreement on the bet that has taken place in the last few years. What is to be done will not at least come into the dimensioning message, which Stortinget will receive during the spring. In addition, there will also be a focus on a renewal of the Action Plan for IT in the basic sphere. It will be briefed on in relation to the State budget. In the documents that come forward in time, you will get a pretty good review. I actually mean that one in this case has acted continuously according to the needs that are leading, while one has run analyses and long-term planning. Here's a clear way to figure out the balance. I hope your documents will be verified.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1233	The IT bet has a double function. One is that an educated person with that competence, but IT is also a tool that can bring another type of education to people in the districts, to people who otherwise cannot move into cities to go to school. That's why it's important that we agree that there should be a strong investment in this area, and here I feel that we're going a long way. But there's one thing I want to ask the Council of State about now on the tap. The review report for Reform 94 suggests that the new basic course adopted by the Stortinget is a response to the demands of society to educate more people in this sector, perhaps not being up and running before the autumn of 2001. I think there's something in the last team. Now that matter is to be dealt with in Stortingen, so we will come back to it then, but I would still like to have the Council's comment on it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1240	First, I want to remind you of the bet that comes from the fall of, as I briefed on in my first answer, and that's known in the Storting from before. When it comes to the two new basic courses, the reason for the presentation here is that one has taken into account another part of what is the reform 94 evaluation. Either one is positive or negative to the reform – and most of the time it's very positive – there's one thing that you're pretty much in agreement about, and it's that the pace was too high. That's why we want to be sure this time when it applies to the work on these basic courses, that everyone who should be moved in is pulled in, so that we don't even get the same criticism, that had a used enough hearing, had a used enough dialogue, had a thoughtful through, then some of the problems would have been avoided.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1250	I shall allow myself to ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘Following the Evening Post On 12 March 1999, Ullern, a secondary school in Oslo, considers that the worst pupils are excluded from the general field of study. The background is the claim that there are some elephants who do not have enough knowledge to receive education. Is this a measure taken by the Council of State?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1259	One of the main intentions of Reform 94 was to give legal rights to a continuing training provision to all those who have gone through the basic school. This means that there is no requirement for the student to have acquired a certain knowledge or skill, or for the student to have received training in the primary school to have a certain level of medicine. The continuing training shall aim at providing documented sub-competence to those students who do not have a seat in order to gain professional or study competence. Therefore, the Income Regulation does not provide for rules to exclude the weak or unrated students from the basic school, from the admission to the direction of study for general, economic and administrative learning. On the other hand, the regulation has rules on input conditions and on input sequences when at a course offered by the county the number of applicants is higher than the number of student places. The challenge for the county councils is to be able to provide everyone with a course that suits the individual and that can provide professional competence to the greatest extent possible. I would like to stress here the County Council's responsibility for providing students with the necessary advice on educational and professional choices so that they can choose the course provision that is best suited to their abilities and abilities. The general rule of the Training Act also states that the training should be adapted to the individual's and apprentice's abilities and abilities. At this point I will refer to the evaluation of Reform 94. It shows that one of the greatest challenges for the further training is precisely to differentiate and correct the training in the ordinary classes in such a way that it fives the most possible of the students. The evaluation also shows that the vast majority of pupils with a need for specific organised training are in the professional fields of study. But of the students that Fafo has followed in his research project, who had specially organized training in the field of study for general, economic and administrative subjects, 51 received Pst. study competence and 35 pst. partial competence after four years. These are very positive figures, which show that it is useful to correct the training also in this direction of study for the elephants, who were initially thought not to be able to obtain study competence. Besides, it seems that it is right to offer everyone the same basis on which they have to build on. If I were to give advice to the schools and county councils based on this evaluation, there would have to be a call to address the challenge of differentiating and correcting training for general, economic and administrative subjects.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1272	I thank the Council of State for your answer. I am very pleased that the Council of States is now clarifying and concretely stating that, like me, he will ring the ball of unity and the intention of Reform 94. When there are several applicants for an offer, it's an accepted way to do it, but it's quite different to set a lower locking limit. I have received a fax from the headmaster of Ullern in advance of this question, where it is claimed that they have never expressed or meant what is the intention of my question. He says, however, that it might be wise to put a lower barrier limit on admission to the general field of study, and I do not interpret it in any other way than that it is about excluding those who are below the lower barrier limit. My question to the Council of State is whether he interprets it the same way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1281	I should be careful to comment on a letter I have not seen, but I would like to express myself in general – and I would like to express myself like the representative Uppøen Hansen. In the case of continuing training, the training law is such that everyone has the right to leave, and then it is not possible to set a lower limit on entering. How a county council should organize in which school to get this court, is not something I as a state council can put myself up to. But it is quite obvious that there is no need for a county council to say no to the right to further education in the general field by character.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1288	It was not my opinion to be responsible for the Council of State in relation to a letter that was sent to me, with a copy to the Department, so it will soon be on the Council of State's table. But I have a small supplementary question: can I interpret the Council of State so that any application from Oslo for a derogation from the Introductory Regulation will not be met by this Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1295	If the application were to be made to exclude some of the elephants from the weak grades, this government would not grant such a derogation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1303	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: «The same school for Middle Norway is the only state school in the mainland. They have not appointed a new board for the school in Hattfjelldal. Instead, the school is administered by the director of education in Nordland. When will the Council of State have a new board in place?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1312	The current Board of the Sameskolan for Middle Norway in Hattfjelldal has been prolonged pending the completion of the work on the future organisation of the Southern Sami educational service. This work has taken longer than what was originally planned. In the context of the introduction of a new Financial Regulation for State institutions from January 1997, it has been necessary to assess different aspects of the governance system for the same ball in Hattfjelldal. Also, for this reason, we thought it was likely to allow the board of directors to continue beyond the ordinary term of government. The new State Financial Regulation is now in use at the same time as the Hattfjelldal. This includes, inter alia: that the same ball in the Hattfjelldal — one of the kind of small school, with only 10-15 elephants — is administratively attached to the State Education Office in Northern Ireland. From 1 August this year, the school will be part of an operational unit under the agency's operations, but the school will still have a board of directors with the same representation as it is today. A new rule for the same ball in Hattfjelldal will be in place from August 1st this year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1323	I must thank the Council of State for a positive response, and I am pleased that this is now going so fast. This school is an important part of promoting Southern Sami culture, languages and also activities in the Southern Sami region. I feel – and I know that they at the school and the center also feel – that they have been hanging in a kind of vacuum for several years and have almost had some kind of temporary status, a temporary approval and a temporary funding. I think that at some point we're going to have to man up and decide what we want with the organisation of the southern Sami education offer. Now that you have a government and a permanent structure, I believe that the Council of State agrees with me that it is a signal that you can imagine a permanent operation, and that you do not live in uncertainty about what the future will be like for those who work at the Hattfjelldal Centre.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1333	I share the assessment that this school together with the school in Snåsa is very important for the southern Sami environment. Furthermore, this school is very strategically located, in close association with the Southern Sami cultural centre located in the Hattfjelldal. In my opinion, it is necessary to see these two units in a little bit, and the fact that I am now appointing the board is from my point of view an expression that I want a good future development, so that this uncertainty can be removed. But there's still a lot to do before we have found the right shape and the right structure for how we can best use the total resources that are in this area with the cultural center and the school.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1348	Rita Tveiten is not present in the hall. Then we go on to the next question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1354	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘In Norway, 13 000 road accidents occur every year with personal injury but only 900 of these are followed up by blood tests. The traffic on the roads increases and the traffic image becomes more complicated, and this puts greater demands on drivers on sharper senses and more attention. In recent years, pill and drug use associated with driving has been an increasing problem. How will the Council of State address this problem so that we avoid lawless conditions on our roads?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1363	: Driving under the influence of drugs other than alcohol, alone or in combination with alcohol, seems to be an increasing problem. That is why a serious road safety issue is raised by the representative of Laila Kaland. There are no accurate figures for the extent of driving in the affected state in Norway, but we know that in 1998 9 300 drivers were reported by the police for driving in the affected state. This figure includes both alcohol and other intoxication. The Road Traffic Act prohibits driving in an affected state, regardless of whether the influence is caused by alcohol or other drugs. The reactions, in terms of punishment and licence withdrawal, are the same, regardless of whether the influence is traced back to alcohol or to other intoxicating agents. The difference is that the law on alcohol has a fixed limit for treating a driver as being affected, while for other drugs a specific assessment is made as to whether the person is affected. In this assessment, the courts focus on blood tests, medical examinations and expert opinions, which provide a good basis for assessing whether the driver was affected. As mentioned in the 1999 State Budget, the Ministry of Transport, in cooperation with the State Institute of Rechtsthosciology, has assessed whether it would be appropriate to regulate fixed limits for some drugs in the Road Traffic Act. The Ministry’s preliminary conclusion is that today’s Road Traffic Act is functioning satisfactorily. In my opinion, therefore, the problem is not that we lack legislation in this area, but that the legal rules we have are not being complied with in practice. In order to ensure greater respect for the prohibition of driving under influence, the Ministry of Transport considers it important to bet on increased frequency of control. The greater the risk of being taken, the less likely it is to take the chance of running in the affected state. In addition, prevention and awareness-raising work related to drug use in traffic is important. Campaigns aimed at alcohol and alcohol use by drivers will therefore be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1374	I want to thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am aware that this is not a single area. But we now see that traffic on the roads is increasing strongly, and we see a lot of wild man running, not least on weekends. We also know that approx. 75 pst. of drivers involved in personal injury have one or more drugs in their blood. In this situation, when the Council of State talks about control and prevention, we know that it is the police and the public that carry out this work to a large extent. The signal we have received from our own group is that they simply do not have the operating budget to operate this important work. My questions to the Council of State are further: What immediate action will the Council of State take to prevent pro-mille running, drug abuse and other traffic crimes? And will the Council of State contribute to the possible strengthening of the police and relief services in the spring session?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1381	To the last part of the question it was very tempting to answer yes or no, but it would be wrong for a councillor to do it shortly before, among other things. the revised national budget is presented. In terms of budget items, we'll get back to them later, when the revised national budget is handed over to the Stortinget. Let me underline what the questioner himself said, namely that there is no easy question on the agenda. But it is, most importantly, that someone puts it on the agenda. It is important that attention is focused on this issue. Attitudes are created through debate and by the fact that some people are concerned about this issue. Let me stress that there is close cooperation between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Transport on these issues, and we are working closely together to find common solutions to the challenges Laila Kaland has raised in his question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1388	I'm aware that this with an increased frame is not easy to take here and now. The Council of State states that, in its assessment, the courts place emphasis on blood testing, medical examinations and experts, and that it provides a good basis for assessing whether the driver was affected. From this point of view, could the Council of State consider introducing a blood test in all traffic accidents involving personal injuries, and that in some way we are already getting into the school that traffic must be free, both in the case of alcohol and drugs, and that the mixture of these two preparations is a terrible mixture when going out and running on the roads?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1395	I agree that schooling is essential in this context, and training on these issues goes into most school contexts with weight and as a substantial part, varying slightly from school to school from what material one has to deal with, and the commitment of those who are teachers, correctly. But here we have adults a big challenge. The power of the example, and not least the way in which we present the message, will be of the utmost importance in the mind-creating context. The question of blood samples from all road accidents involving personal injuries raised by the representative of the local authorities in Kaland, I take it back with me to get a closer look at it. I cannot conclude here and now whether it is proper, whether it is possible and whether it is right, but I will take it back to get it evaluated.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1405	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Just before Easter, a serious accident occurred in a tunnel. Many perished in the Mont Blanc tunnel, not only in the accident itself, but because the fire that started at the same time made it impossible for the help crews to come in to extract people. In Norway, we have many and long tunnels, and through newspaper searches, I have seen that inventor Andor Lømmervik has presented solutions for remote fire extinguishment inside tunnels. How is the safety of fire in tunnels, and what is done to improve it?’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1414	I am generally very concerned with increased safety in traffic. This is also important for traffic in tunnels. It is very rare that fire occurs in a vehicle in a road tunnel. In Norway, the State Road Service has recorded over 40 car fires in road tunnels over the last seven years without people being killed due to the fire. The guidelines for securing road tunnels impose strict fire safety requirements in new tunnels. For older tunnels, the current four-year period for Norwegian road and road transport plans is spent 40 million per year. kr to bring the fire safety up to an acceptable level. This concerns the installation of emergency telephones, fire extinguishers and traffic signalling systems on the outside of the tunnel. The State Road Service, in cooperation with several external parties, has launched a major development project on the tunnel issue, where safety has a central place. Different extinguishing methods are also investigated. In addition, I can inform you that the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the Ministry of Transport are cooperating on fire safety guidelines in new and existing road tunnels. On the railway side it is the State Railway Authority that approves the road and rolling stock. There are two aspects which are given priority before the entry into service of new railway tunnels: the safety requirements applicable to the tunnel and rolling stock ensure fire safety that emergency analyses have been carried out and that emergency plans are in place in the event of an accident; Overall, this means that continuous work is being undertaken to increase the safety of tunnels.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1438	I thank you for your answer. I think it is positive that the Minister for Transport has clearly addressed the issue, and that there are in fact distributions. My first follow-up question is: When will these statements possibly come to the others – what time do we get an insight into these? The second thing is that I'm not quite happy with the answer. In my own county, Rogaland, there is a fixed and larger tunnel that is very steep both on one side and on the other. If accidents occur down there, they will be near as hot spots, as one might say, that it was in the Mont Blanc tunnel. Will there be special measures? And sees the Council of State take care of it, for example. what this inventor had seen: remote control of any extinguishment?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1445	With regard to the time of completion of the investigation, my impression is that it would be best to get partial investigations along the way, i.e. that you don't have to wait until everything is done before taking action. That will be my position. That is why I cannot finally fix the deadline today when it would be right to set a finish line. To the questioner's reference to inventor Andor Lømmervik about remote fire extinguishment in tunnels, I regret to say as a state council that this is unknown to the Ministry of Transport and the road authorities, so that we do not have the sufficient basis and knowledge of the project to assess this seriously. The signals given by the respondent will be included. Let me just remind you that in the case of the fire in the Mont Blanc tunnel, we want to have access to the investigation report in connection with it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1454	I thought the Council of State gave the impression that this was being taken seriously, and that through interim reports he would come back to both the Storting and others with proposals for solutions and, if necessary, how to allocate funds. I'm busy getting into the solutions that exist, and choosing the best ones, for everyone like that. run in these subsea tunnels, see what problems it can lead to if fires start there. I'm just waiting for the council to follow this up before you get an accident like that in the Mont Blanc tunnel.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1464	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘The Centre for Aid in Sarpsborg has been informed by the Ministry that the State will save 55 million. in 1999 as a result of the budgetary agreement between the Centre Parties, the Right and the Advance Party. Dyslexics must then take an IQ test before they can access data equipment. This applies to a group of writing and reading difficulties which benefit very well from such technical means. Does the Council really believe that this group should be subjected to new extensive tests and new defeats?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1471	During the autumn budgetary procedure, the bulk of the population, including working parity, decided to save 55 million. kr in support of information technology aid from the population. The savings shall be made by drawing a clearer line between the responsibilities of the public and the school for students with reading and writing difficulties. The rules are now tightened. Social security is responsible for financing elephants with specific reading and writing problems/dyslexia, while the school is responsible for correcting the teaching of elephants with less reading and writing difficulties. The representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo raised a similar question from the representative of Karin Andersen in Stortinget's question time on 17 March. I refer to my answer then, but I will add: Most of the elephants/teachers who use IT tools in school need special instruction. An individual training plan shall be drawn up according to the training laws. It shall have objectives for the subject and further mention of teaching materials, tools, working methods and the organisation of training. In cases where a public search for IT facilities is sought, the individual training plan shall be included in the application. At the same time, the need for IT tools shall be confirmed in the form of a professional statement from the PP service. It is the school/PP service that is responsible for clearing the student/student in view of the extent of reading and writing difficulties. The distribution requires extensive monitoring, where one looks at the learning situation and the intentions in general. As an aid to distribution in the PP service, standardised tests are often used, including: developed by Scan Centre. It is misleading to call the tests that the PP service uses for IQ tests. They shall not be used to determine the student's IQ. The tests are a tool for those who leave, and for the student/apprentice in view of what action should be taken. Designated that elephants/students with specific read and write problems should pass an intelligence test to access computer equipment in the school is thus not correct. The Help Centre takes decisions and takes action on the basis of information provided in the application, including: an expert statement from the PP service. The system has to be evaluated after some time – I'll work for it. Assessing the learning situation and the staffing of the elephants/students is particularly important in order to correct the training. In this context, I would like to refer to the essay in the Evening Post on Saturday, April 10, where it is clear that a now has to launch a nationwide survey of all the elephants in the 2nd and 7th grade for reading and writing difficulties. The aim is to take action as early as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1482	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I am not very satisfied with it; it is not very much different from the answer given to Ballo when he had this question before Easter. In recent years, dyslexia has become more acceptable, and more people have dared to face up to their problem. It's because we've got so good help for this disability. It's also that people dare to start using those that make the budgets increase, and it's clear that they've increased dramatically. But that's something we also know from other areas of the budget, that when new technology or research comes up, budgets are increasing. That should be something the Council of State should be pleased about, because now we can really help many more. Then I have to ask, doesn't the Council of State mean that we have to afford to give money to these who can really get help?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1489	I'm glad that it focuses on new technology and the excellent tool that it can be. At the same time, it is an important task to adopt a regulatory framework to clarify responsibilities and to place responsibilities properly. In this context, in 1997, 35 million were earmarked. kr in the budget for IT aid, and between 75 and 80 million. kr. In 1998, it went about $180 million. kr to school aid from the population, and of them approximately 165 million went. kr for elephants with difficulty reading and writing. I think it is crucial that as many as possible get the right help, but it is also important to clarify the responsibility for the costs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1494	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I want to come back to the fact that here we have a tool that makes people function normally, not only in everyday life, but also in a work situation. It may help to reduce another budget that the Council of State is very concerned about, and it is the budget of the underprivileged, who is constantly increasing. We know that in Norway it is approx. 10 pst. of the population with difficulty in reading and writing, while it is only at the lower edge of 3 pst. which actually has the diagnosis of dyslexia. And then I have to ask the Council of State, isn't this really the same problem? Should it be that it's just the group of 3 pst. which shall have access to the public security, and that the group of 10 p.m. is there little need for local authorities to intervene? I have also heard that there is a queue in the PPT offices in the municipalities now, and that some municipalities have up to 2 years waiting time. Then there is not much hope for those who need help.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1503	This issue tends into the responsibility of the Minister of Education. It is important that we both sympathise in our area, but also that we work together to ensure that IT aids benefit the most. I thought the questioner well underlined the value of the IT tool. What's a dilemma is the understanding of the rules of popular fear and the responsibilities of the municipalities here. A working group has carried out a review here and clarified the responsibilities, so that as much as possible they will be able to try out this tool better. I have worked for the follow-up of this group's work, and I believe the responsibility today is well placed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1514	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘A deaf business manager responsible for approx. 200 employees at Conrad Svendsen Senter in Oslo have received a rejection of their application for 80 hours of interpretation per person. months. In addition to holding a demanding position, he is an important role model for the deaf at the institution he runs. Will the Council of State consider exemption from the Law on Social Security Sections 10-7(f) and Section 1(b) of the Code on the Interpretation of Labour in the light of the special needs of positions such as this?»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1521	The law of popular security allows for the right of hearing impaired persons to be assisted by interpreters. In order for hearing impairments to function in the workplace, they may be charged for interpreting assistance up to 30 hours per year. month. I'm aware that 30 hours per hour. month is sufficient for some, while for others it is too small. The individual needs for interpreting help are closely related to the tasks and responsibilities of the work, which is a good example of this. It is not possible to dispensate today’s legislation from the 30-hour ceiling of interpreting aid per person. month. Some jobs have many deaf people added, as is the case with Conrad Svendsen Senter. The ministry has recently started a work where we want to set up an experimental system for the use of interpreters in one or more such workplaces. The test will allow the workplace to assign interpreters in a fixed position within the hours to which the deaf have total rights. This will mean that one of the attempts ‘collective’ the individual right. This way, the test will open up so that some will take more than 30 hours per. month, while others will take out less. Workers will thus be able to use interpreters according to their needs. With such a scheme, employees will not be able to steal interpreting assignments from the Auxiliary Centre. The Ministry will set up a working party to prepare and lay down the framework for such a pilot scheme. I cannot dispensate from the legislation, so that the deaf leader of Conrad Svendsen Center can accept his application for 80 hours of interpretation per. month. But with the above-mentioned attempt, I want to give greater flexibility in the use of interpreters in the workplace with many deaf people added, and I hope they will be able to do their job better. I'm assuming it's an understanding that I can't at this point name the company you're planning to give you the opportunity to participate in this experiment. I know that there are about 10 companies that have many deaf people added, between them is Conrad Svendsen Senter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1534	I would first like to thank the Council of State for the answer, and it seems that it can open up an opportunity. When I've raised the question of extended interpretation, especially considering the leader of the Conrad Svendsen Center here in Oslo, it's because I think it's of great importance that we take care of the possibility of being deaf and at the same time hold a position as top manager of a big business. Since we are talking about an institution for the deaf, the leader is an important role model for the residents. He shows with his example that it is also beneficial for one who is suffering from deafness to fully master a demanding managerial position with the top responsibility for 200 employees. The fact that the public is given the opportunity to provide an extended interpretation service therefore has a function far beyond helping a single deaf worker. It is about giving hope and optimism to the deaf in Norway. There is a question of accessibility in society, which the Government has set as a goal in its disability action plan. Is it possible for the Council of State to assume that Conrad Svendsen Senter will be subject to such a pilot scheme as she mentioned in her reply? I understand that she cannot confirm this for certain, but if she can imagine it, what will the time perspective be?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1545	I'm fully summed up in the statement that the representative Rise here gives of the value of deaf people having leadership settings in companies where deaf people are added, and can show that they are working. I'm also saying that it's an important task for the public to participate in making work opportunities as good as possible. I've already said that Conrad Svendsen Senter can be a current candidate among ten others. The work of the working group should take place quickly. I see that an attempt can be started, hopefully already from the fall.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1550	Then I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. It is a good idea to set up a timetable that will allow such a pilot scheme to be implemented quickly. When we first deal with this with interpretation, I would also like to focus my attention on the need for interpretation with the opposite sign, i.e. deaf-to-heart voice interpretation. There are currently no clear rules on how the public can cover such interpretation. And the question is, can the Council of States do anything to create clarity in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1557	The president would point out that this was probably a different question than what was the starting point of the question, so she has a full understanding of whose government councillor Meltveit Kleppa cannot give an adequate answer to this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1560	I thank you for that understanding. It's necessary and good for me in this context. My answer is that I have noticed that the representative Lars Rise here is travelling as a problem issue. I am aware that there is also a desire for a clearer code in this field. I'll take his wish back with me to the department, maybe come back with a more concrete answer in that context. Finally, let me just underline to the original question that working groups in the department can take a long and short time. Holdings outside the enterprises involved will also be decisive for the speed with which this experiment can be started.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1570	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘In Norway, 60-year-olds are denied examination for possible heart transplantation. The use of age as the sole criterion for refusing investigation is seen as unfair and discriminatory. Will the Council of State change current practice and facilitate individual medical evaluation of individuals, regardless of age?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1579	For patients with heart disease, as for patients with other disorders, it is the patient’s doctor, or the hospital department concerned, who, after a medical evaluation, decides on the individual patient’s offer. In the case of cardiac patients at the Rikshospitalet, a large proportion of patients are in both cardiac and thorax surgery departments over 60 years of age. Patients are treated according to the guidelines their condition requires, including advanced heart surgery. In the context of an examination for transplantation, medical conditions are assessed by the patient and there are conditions that make transplantation impossible or very risky. The upper and lower age limits of cardiac transplantation have been extended as medical competence increases and in line with developments in international transplantation surgery. At the Rikshospitalet, each patient is judged by an overall assessment of the age, the medical needs of the patient, the possibility of rehabilitation and the presence of complicating diseases as the main basis. At the Rikshospitalet, there was a daily visit. November 1998 20 out of 315 heart transplants actually performed on patients over 60 years of age. Results from the international registry for cardiovascular and pulmonary transplantation show that age over 45 years and, in particular, over 65 years, survival is worse than that of younger age groups. This is partly due to parallel medical problems and partly to the consequences of treatment necessary to prevent rejection of the new body. This treatment has side effects, the higher the age. The Rikshospital has pointed out that there is considerable shortage of organs, and therefore considers that an end to the age limit as a heart transplant criterion cannot be recommended. One does not exclude the need to take into account the scarcity of organs and the need to prioritize patients from this relationship. This raises difficult ethical questions. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health will present this question to the National Hospital Council, which in its mandate has the task of commenting precisely on such priority issues.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1592	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I find it hard to understand that each patient is judged by an overall assessment where age, the medical needs of the patient, the possibility of rehabilitation and the presence of complicated diseases can form some main basis when, if you are over 60 years old, you are actually denied an individual medical examination. There are several people who have felt that if you are over 60 years old, you have gone out of date. I think this is immoral, and that it's almost a death sentence on a person just because he's 60 years old. I think our health care system is a little worth it. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State: will he contribute to the amendment of the legislation being practised today and give patients the right to an individual medical examination?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1597	The question has two sides. First to what is current practice: there is an age limit of 60 years, but it is exempted from an individual medical assessment. I stress that an individual medical assessment should be carried out. The figures I referred to just testify that heart transplants are also carried out at the Rikshospital in people over 60 years of age, and that is an expression that this age limit is not fully practiced, but that such an individual assessment is made. However, I agree with Mr Blattmann that this difficult priority issue, such as: due to the scarcity of accessible bodies, raise very difficult ethical issues. That is why we have taken the initiative to assess these rules by giving the State Hospital Council a mandate to look at them.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1604	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I see as more positive than what I might have noted that the head of the Council of Medical Sciences stated in the VG on 8 April, namely that for ‘economic, practical and medical-ethical reasons, the 60th year limit for cardiac transplantation’ should be maintained. I am pleased that I got this answer, because then we will be able to be more in line with the Scandinavian countries, namely that the goods will be distributed as needed, and that this will be carried out with respect for the equivalency and the dignity of the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1611	I still agree that we should have a practice based on respect for the individual and provide an individual with individual treatment, while at the same time having certain driving rules to make the difficult balances that cannot be avoided when priority is needed. What will be the conclusion of the assessment we are now initiating, I will for my part refrain from foreshadowing, but, as I said, it will be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1619	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: «Many sick people, not least those with back problems, feel that they must be in line for a long time before specialist examination and treatment. In addition to the individual’s own health-reduction disorders, long-term suffering and incapacity for work may lead to significant costs to society for health care due to waiting for treatment. What can the Council of State do to improve this situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1628	There is no doubt that it is a heavy burden to be sick while waiting for treatment. In addition to reducing the health and costs of individuals, both the employer and the community are charged large expenses each year in the form of sick leave costs. Several measures have therefore been taken to improve both the competence and capacity of treatment provision, so that more people are getting help more quickly. Since 1997, the social security system has been provided with the means to purchase the investigation and treatment of sick people with conditions that can be treated outpatiently, i.e. preferably in day surgery. This scheme is now permanent and is being established in all the counties of the country as part of the follow-up of the social security system to the sick. In 1999, there is a total of 30 million. kr for the purchase of treatment for the sick and the strengthening of the establishment in order to handle these tasks. Back disease accounts for about 15 pst. of the costs of sickness benefits. Most patients with backaches become good by themselves, and there are relatively few who need surgical intervention. It is a major challenge for the healthcare system to provide an appropriate treatment provision to a large and complex group of patients such as this. Unfortunately, this offer has been too poor for more places in the country. Recent research suggests that early investigation and interdisciplinary treatment reduces the number of long-term illiterates. In other words, rapid investigation and treatment involve a significant savings potential for sick pay and other social security benefits. We are now looking to do something about this. A multidisciplinary investigation tariff at the public outpatient clinics was introduced in 1997 and is well received in the trade unions. From 1999 onwards, a separate multidisciplinary treatment tariff has also been introduced for back patients. In order to make it particularly attractive to establish an outpatient provision for back patients, double reimbursement will be triggered from 1 January this year if the patient is sick or receives other social security benefits due to his or her back problems. This applies to rehabilitation, disability or re-employment benefits. It's added 14 million. DKr at new tariffs in 1999. In addition, it is important to increase the overall competence of back disorders. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is in the process of setting up a ‘National Back Network’. The network shall carry out research, development of competences and dissemination of experience in the field of back and back diseases in accordance with a decentralised network model. An agreement has been reached with the Municipality of Oslo to set up a secretariat for this network at Ullevål Hospital. Similarly, a research unit for clinically controlled trials within the network is contracted with the University of Bergen. In connection with this network, the Ministry will also establish a Council of Representatives from both the professional communities, different levels of administration and patient organisations. It is my hope that these measures, which are based on capacity and increasing competence in this field, will provide a better overall response to patients with back disease in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1641	I would like to thank you for your answer, and I can confirm that this is an improvement in this area. After I started to take an interest in my back – I kept saying – according to some cases in my own local environment, I have had to dig myself into the matter. What I understand above all is that my back is hard. But I also understood that this is a national problem, and I can list countless examples gradually. But in addition to the fact that the Council of State now points out that he has introduced interdisciplinaryity, which I believe is a great advance, and that he has granted some money, I am concerned with the little woman and man meeting with the big system. I know of several cases of people who have been operated abroad, who are totally incomprehensible that they cannot get their money refunded. I can't explain in this short time why it's been like this. But I would like to ask the Council of State to answer whether it is not possible to introduce a kind of amnesty, possibly an exceptional state, until a capacity is built that is sound.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1648	The representative of Terje Johansen is now raising questions about foreign treatment, as the Stortinget discussed last year in connection with the introduction of a complaint subject for contributions to treatment abroad. Regulations have been laid down for the Law on Social Security relating to the criteria for contributions to treatment abroad. The main criteria are that there is a condition for such a contribution that treatment cannot be given in Norway due to a lack of medical competence. There is therefore no shortage of hospital capacity that provides a basis for contributions. It is also the case that you have to search in advance, and not so that you can come back and present a bill, so that you can get it refunded, without going through the procedure described in the regulation. I can therefore not promise anything in general amnesty, but I see the need to inform better about the rules that apply.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1655	I am aware of the requirement for aid for treatment abroad. It is that there should be referral from the special department of regional hospitals or hospitals with national functions in the medical field concerned. But that means in practice that it is the same doctors who have already examined the patient and refused to help, who have to refer the patient abroad. It has created some situations that I think are quite unfair. The resource forces then take deep into their own pockets and travel abroad. It's okay that they then violate a law that means they don't get a refund. I have some understanding of that. But there's an injustice in this, first of all, and I'm asking myself the question: this is an estimated cost to Norwegian society at a point between $2 and $3 billion a year. When we have the money, and we can actually save money on sending people abroad, I think that practice is too restrictive.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1663	It is precisely to have an independent handling of these cases that the Storting decided to set up a stand-alone appeal subject, so that decisions on these issues will be taken by such a body at the latest. I expect that it will help to improve the procedure in this area than in the past. In addition, I can inform you that the Department has carried out an evaluation of back operations carried out in Sweden in the last years, 1993-97, carried out by the Health Administration Centre. We expect to get a report from this evaluation during this month. I look forward to the report providing a basis for assessing further improvements in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1673	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Health professionals are a scarce factor in the Norwegian health care system, which also applies to the pharmaceutical industry with a lack of pharmaceuticals. Mesna Pharmacy at Lillehammer wants to implement a test scheme in which the pharmacists will continue to check the prescription from the doctor, but where the rest of the expedition can be carried out by the pharmacists. Will the Council of State contribute to the launching of such pilot schemes and when will the above-mentioned pharmacy receive an answer to its application?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1682	It is true that pharmacists are a scarcity factor in the pharmacy. The main measures taken by the government to address the lack of pharmaceuticals have been a significant increase in the capacity to absorb pharmaceuticals. In 1998, capacity was increased by 15, from 75 to 90, for university pharmacists and by 28, from 32 to 60, for high school pharmacists. This significantly increased capacity of 20 pst, respectively. and close to 90 pst. is maintained in 1999. However, I have also been aware of the relationship that the representative of Kristoffersen raises, namely the possibilities of making better use of the pharmaceutical competence we actually have in each pharmacy. The tasks which only pharmacists can perform in connection with the manufacture of medicinal products subject to prescription are governed by the provisions of Section 20 of the Pharmacy Act. On April 27, 1998, I adopted a new regulation on the prescription and supply of pharmaceuticals from pharmacies. This Regulation shall apply, inter alia, to: the division of work between the pharmaceutical and non-pharmaceutical workers in the pharmacy in the case of medical prescription. The new regulation better facilitates more rational pharmacy routines. As in the past, any prescription and prescription shall be evaluated and approved by the pharmacist and, in the course of its renewal, the appropriate receipt of the pharmacist shall be affixed. With regard to the supply of medicinal products on prescription, the new regulation provided for a reform because the receipt of the medicinal product on each package can now be omitted if safe despatch is demonstrated by other means. In that case, there will be a pharmacist who will acknowledge the delivery. In pharmacies moving to this routine, this will significantly ease the workload of pharmacists. With regard to the specific project at Mesna Pharmacy, it is part of the manufacturing process that it is the Pharmaceuticals Association (i.e. the pharmacologists' Association) that has initiated the project together with De Factor, the Knowledge Centre for Trades Organisations. The project of the Pharmaceuticals Association and Mesna Pharmacy aims to transfer several tasks from pharmacists to pharmacists. In doing so, the pharmacist concerned is exempted from the requirement that the prescription be evaluated each time it is dispatched. So the question arises when you're despatching multiple prescriptions. The aim of the project is that the pharmacist should only assess the prescription for the first time, in order to ensure that, in the future, a pharmacist assesses it. Such transfer of tasks from the pharmacist to the technicians goes beyond the current regulation on the requisition and supply of medicinal products. Nor does this regulation provide for a derogation from the requirements of the regulation. In this way, Mesna pharmacies applies for a derogation that is not legally available. Both the Norwegian Pharmaceutical Association and the Norwegian Pharmacy Association are moving towards the project. According to these organisations, there is a need to evaluate the prescription each time it is dispatched, for the purposes of history, co-prescription, information on possible adverse reactions and possible adverse drug combinations. Such assessment requires pharmaceutical competence and the Ministry, after consulting the State Health Authority, agrees to this. On this basis, the project at Mesna Pharmacy must remain within the framework of the current prescription and prescription of medicinal products from pharmacies.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1697	Still increasing health care tasks mean that I believe that we need to keep the search light focused on whether we make the most of our health professionals in terms of both knowledge and resource use in our businesses. It also applies to pharmacists. At least today, pharmacists are a scarcity factor, and they are currently carrying out work that could have been done by others, with different competencies. I believe that we, as in Denmark, should have given the pharmacists the opportunity to carry out the technical inspection/expedition, while the pharmacists could then devote themselves to more professional tasks. After all, regulations are man-made, and wouldn't it be wise to look at the regulations and set in motion a test scheme, as I indicated in the question I raised to the Minister of Health?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1702	Well, regulations are man-made, and they're not a goal in themselves. Now it's like the Storting has to treat Ot.prp. No 29 on new pharmacies laws, and in the extension of this landfill treatment, we need to re-examine all prescriptions of the Pharmacy Act. It will then be necessary to launch a comprehensive revision of the legislative framework. In this process, it is quite natural that prescriptions on prescription and prescription routines in pharmacies should also be reviewed. But until that is done, I want to see it as appropriate that the project at Mesna Pharmacy stays within the current rules, also because I have received very clear professional advice in that direction. However, I would like to mention that there are a number of other measures in place to stimulate better and more rational use of pharmacies within the requirements of quality and safety.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1707	I am disappointed that we cannot go further on this question. The quality of the pharmacies we can't change. Giving pharmacies technicians greater responsibility, according to what has been shown in Denmark, has not led to several errors in the processing, as far as I am aware of the material I have seen. This would indicate that we would not be on any questionable professional path on an extended basis. I would like to ask the Minister of Health to consider the following: in the pharmaceutical policy, which we largely agree on, there is an increasing emphasis on, among other things. the use of parallel imported preparations, and one would believe that it imposes greater requirements on pharmaceutical knowledge. So the indirect question is: is it not that the release of pharmacists would be beneficial to be able to support under the policy on which we actually agree?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1712	I can assure the representative Kristoffersen that I am constantly looking for measures that, within a sound and secure framework, can contribute to a more optimal division of work between different groups of health professionals. I would also like to assess that in this area. I have already laid down a regulation that allows pharmacists to do more of the pharmacies' tasks, but I think, also in respect of the treatment of a whole new pharmacy law in Stortinget, that it would be right to wait for it to be dealt with before I make further changes to the regulatory system. The trial at Mesna Pharmacy can certainly find its form within today's legislation. In addition, the Norwegian Pharmacy Association informs that several pharmacies are planning and carrying out trials with new, improved prescription routines with exactly the same aim, so I think we agree.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1722	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The size has granted 3 million. crowns to send a sample group of muscle disease for training in the South to evaluate the short- and long-term effects of such treatment. Leading forces at Sunnaas, Ullevål and Beitostolen have offered to carry out the evaluation project at Beitostolen and Casas Heddy at Lanzarote. Does the Council of State consider the use of limited resources to begin by allowing a group of bureaucrats and others to travel to the Canary Islands for the purpose of determining the location of the test group?’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1731	In order to implement the Stortingen Decision, the Ministry of the Secretariat for Treatment Trips at the Rikshospitalet called for a meeting on 15 January this year, where a request for a trial group was made by the Secretariat. When patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis – ALS patients – and polioramde were specifically mentioned by the Committee, one found it appropriate to start with these two groups. Reference was made to the assumption of the evaluation of the short-term and long-term effects. The importance of comparing with a relevant treatment provision for relevant groups in Norway was highlighted. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health then received on 22 January this year a letter from three doctors indicating that one was planning an investigation aimed at monitoring the effect of treatment travel abroad. They indicated that they were aimed at evaluating a patient group before and after rehab in the South and comparing them with different parameters with similar stays at a Norwegian rehabilitation institution. One suggests a trial conducted at the treatment institution Casas Heddy at Lanzarote and Beitostolen Health Sports Centre. The doctors asked for a meeting with the ministry to discuss any support for the project. The ministry has had such a meeting with the doctors. They want to carry out a stand-alone scientific project. The ministry stated that it may be appropriate to send groups of muscle disease in 2000 other than the two that you have chosen to start with. In order to start the preparation, we asked these doctors to propose to which group or groups of muscle diseases that it may seem appropriate to prepare a trial plan. Furthermore, the Ministry indicated that evaluation should be planned at the same time and therefore asked for a plan for the evaluation project for the proposed group(s). As regards the organisation of trial groups, the secretariat for treatment trips is planning a ‘seek trip’ to two relevant sites, Casas Heddy, Lanzarote and Wintersol, Tenerife from 16 to 20 April this year. Winter sun is built and specially designed for patients with neuromuscular disorders. The purpose of the visit is to identify the suitability of the site for the patient groups to be covered by the test project. Furthermore, a discussion will be held with the management of treatment centres on the availability of professional and other services, while at the same time assessing whether hospital services in the area can meet the potential needs of the ALS and polio frameworks. One will be able to compare the quality and price of the two sites according to the needs of the project. The pilot project is intended to be a medical professional activity under Norwegian law. The professional responsibility lies in Norway. The offer to which these groups are to be sent must be suitable for these patients. It is therefore necessary to make an on-site assessment before patients are sent for treatment. For my part, I find it reasonable that the secretariat for treatment travel in the planning of the project should carry out the studies necessary to assess the offer in terms of suitability for the patient groups, quality and price.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1742	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was an amissable answer, however, that conceals the fact that two months passed from the letter from the experts at Beitostølen, Sunnaas and Ullevål were received, and until they got to meet the department. There was already a great deal to be done then, without being able to use this range of experts. Had the department responded more quickly to the positive response from the doctors, we could have come much further this year. We could have started the scientific assessment, not only for polio and ALS patients, which are important enough, but also for many of the other groups of myopathy. In contrast to the Council of State, I do not find it reasonable that the secretariat for treatment travel uses scarce means to travel around the Canary Islands by scheduled flights. It's expensive and it's unnecessary. Will the Council of State stop this unnecessary journey and waste of money and accept the offer of Beitostølen and Casas Heddy?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1753	It is clear from the answer I gave that the mission was already given to the Secretariat for Treatment Trips, which has such tasks, before the department was contacted by the three doctors mentioned above. I can agree with the representative, Høegh, that it would have been appropriate if the meeting mentioned here had been held earlier than it actually was. But I do not agree that we are facing a waste of money here. It is important, in my opinion, that this body, once entrusted with such a task, carry out the examinations, assessments and investigations they deem necessary in order to provide the ministry with a proper professional assessment. In the professional evaluation, they should also keep in touch with the professional environments referred to by the representative Høegh.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1760	I am a little surprised that the Council of State only dismisses this by saying that the assignment was given, and that nothing could be done differently after it was given, when you were knowingly given an offer, a good expert offer, a few days later. It is regrettable that the department has not managed to regroup itself and others, because it is quite obvious that the journey they are now making is unnecessary because others have assessed it before. This is not a final definition of where such an offer is to be made. It is clear that you have to get back to it if you find that there is reason to make training in the South for muscle disease a permanent scheme. But that this is now allowed to go further and use scarce resources on a tour of the Canary Islands when you have received an offer from an excellent place with which both the specialist and patients have good experience, which I find regrettable. I hope the Council of State can confirm that he will extend this pilot project to next year, so that you can get into a better and more scientific track.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1769	I would like to reject the fact that we are facing an assessment and an investigation process that does not meet professional objectives. It is my clear expectation that the secretariat for treatment travel, set up to do such tasks, will ensure that they have both thorough and proper professional assessments at the bottom of their recommendation, that they will carry out the necessary studies and that they will relate to the professional communities in Norway that are relevant to this group of patients. Then we just find that the representative, Høegh and I, disagree on the extent to which the individual instruments of investigation should be managed from a political point of view, in this case the question of whether or not the secretariat should make a trip.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1779	This question has been asked to the Minister for the Environment, but will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs who is directing it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1782	I then have the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘The EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, in Brussels, states that Norway does not have the right to refuse a company in Stavanger to import and sell French wood stoves without being tested in accordance with Norwegian regulations. Each test costs approx. $80,000. The ESA considers Norway to be distorting competition in this case. Will the Council of States ensure that ESA’s decision is now followed?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1791	In the opening letter of the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, on the complaint case concerning Norwegian requirements for wood stoves, ESA requests additional information related to the Norwegian requirements for the protection of health and the environment. The background is a complaint from a French kiln manufacturer to the Norwegian requirements for particulate emissions from and testing of kilns. The Norwegian requirements governing emissions from kilns have been established on the basis of health and environment considerations based on a professional assessment by the environmental protection authorities. Several previous studies show that the emissions from wood stoves represent 30 – 60 pst. of the total emissions to air in Norway. Calculations from Oslo in 1995 showed that the emissions from wood stoves were 66 pst. of the total particulate emission. A 1999 Oslo study shows that refurbishment amounts to 80 – 90 pst. of the total emission of particulate matter. Emissions of heating particles constitute a significant health hazard. Calculations show that a 40 pst replacement of old wood stoves. will be able to reduce mortality by 25 lives per year in Oslo. Corresponding reductions in mortality can be estimated for the rest of the country. Emissions also lead to increased morbidity. In this context, Norway has introduced testing requirements for particulate emissions. The French ovens have not been tested for particulate emissions and the manufacturer has complained about the additional costs of testing. However, several other European countries have specific national requirements for wood stoves that result in separate testing. In the EU, a new Directive with strict particle content limits to be achieved by 2005 has been proposed. European standardisation work has been mandated by the EU and EFTA in order to harmonise, inter alia, the requirements relating to: wood stoves. Norway will participate actively in this work with a view to including particulate emissions in the standard. The Norwegian authorities have sent the detailed technical justification for the requirements of ESA. The requirements for particulate emission control are maintained in the interests of health and the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1808	I thank you for the answer, which, of course, I'm not quite satisfied with. This case was resolved in Stavanger AFTENblad on 27 February 1999. It says: ‘The small man won in Brussels’... ‘A small importer in Stavanger has attacked discriminatory measures by the Norwegian authorities’... ‘For Norwegian importers this is a new ‘Bosman judgment’ and it may have far-reaching consequences’. ESA clearly states that there is a distortion of competition. The EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA in Brussels, states that Norway does not have the right to refuse to sell the French forest forests and that Norway is distorting competition. ESA ‘requires the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to provide scientific evidence that restrictions on imports of foreign food are necessary’. Does the Minister for Local Government believe that these anti-competitive requirements should be maintained without providing sufficient «scientific evidence» as requested?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1822	I refer to my first response, where I said that ESA has asked for further information related to the Norwegian requirements. So we have not made a decision, but asked for further information. I also refer to what I further said in my reply that the Norwegian provisions are linked to health and environmental concerns. We're going to take these requirements seriously. A large proportion of the particulate emissions, as I said in my first response, are related to emissions from just stoves, and having strict requirements in this area means that, as far as possible, you can avoid mortality and morbidity as a result of this type of emissions. It should be in everyone's interest that we have strict demands in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1829	I thank you again for the answer. But would it not be right for Norway to wait until 2005 with this standardisation mentioned in the letter? The minister said just enough in his first post that they have sent a statement. What ESA has asked for is a scientific justification for why this has been done. I see no reason why Norway should set foot down in relation to a clear provision in the international trade settlements that we have with European countries. I just mention again that in the present case, the basic principle seems to be that a product which has been lawfully produced and marketed in one EEA country must be able to be sold in another EEA country, although it cannot be guaranteed that the product will literally meet the technical standards and specifications of the country in which it is sold. I would like to ask the Minister of State to review the matter and give this individual importer the opportunity to continue to sell French wood stoves.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1840	In fact, it is not obvious that products manufactured must be able to be marketed in a market without having to be subject to quality approval and to standards to be complied with. In this area, I think it is important to have a precautionary approach, and that Norwegian authorities are making demands on health and the environment, just as a number of other European countries have done. If no one goes ahead and sets strict requirements that lead to environmental improvements, experience shows that then there will be no improvement either. So I think that what Norway has put in place – to make testing demands, and to set standards, and then to follow up to get this into EU regulations – is a proper race.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1850	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Labour and Administration: ‘The implementation of the plans for the co-location of Norway’s High School of Music and the Eastern Conservatory of Music in the current Oslo Community Faculty has stopped, among other things because Statsbyggen has stopped the sale of a newly built building of an empty contemplation of the Faculty of Publicities. What can the Council of State do to advance a matter which has been under constant review since 1994?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1859	The Community faculty is a foundation that owns its premises, and the State cannot order the disposal of their premises. However, the community faculty has agreed to leave if the overall training needs so require. The Faculty of State has requested that their premises be located within a reasonable distance of the University of Blinds. For reasons of the need for larger premises of the Academy of Music and the Conservatory of Music, Stadsbyggen has agreed to try to obtain the Faculty of Fine Arts for new buildings. In the area in question, in close proximity to the Blind, the plot reserves are scarce. Until the NRK’s premises on Marienlyst owns the NRK an area currently regulated for public activities. However, the NRK has entered into an agreement with private contractors for the sale of this area for housing purposes. For this reason, the NRK has proposed that the area be regulated for residential purposes. State buildings have opposed this and want today's regulation to be maintained. Due to the location of the area in the so-called Blindern axis, State Building has considered the area as very important for future public activities. The land reserves in the area are so scarce that, in the opinion of State Building, it is very important that the properties already regulated for public purposes should continue to be reserved for public use in the long term. The natural development of the area and the Blind axis indicate that the area should be regulated for public purposes. In this context, State Building has announced that they will use the instrument of State objection if the area is re-regulated for residential purposes by the Municipality of Oslo. The use of State objection is approved by the Ministry of Labour and Administration. The involvement of state-building in the matter is primarily linked to the future overall public needs, but their commitment also includes, of course, an interest in solving the Music Academy and the acute needs of the Music Conservatory for premises. State buildings were presented with proposals for an amicable solution in the matter. The proposal was submitted by the private stakeholders with whom the NRK has entered into a sales agreement. In this solution, it was proposed that the NRK should leave empty to the Faculty of State on condition that State Building draws the notified state objection. However, the proposal was not discussed with the NRC, as state buildings could not accept reregulation for any part of the area. The proposal for an amicable solution does not address the possibility of extending public activities in the area, even if it would provide a quick solution for the Musikkhögskole and Musikkonservatoriet. I broadly agree with the conclusions and procedure of State Building. As far as further progress is concerned, I can inform you that the Ministry of Labour and Administration, in consultation with State Building, is working to find a solution to the dispute between the NRK and State Building. This solution must be acceptable to all interested parties and contribute to the rapid and final settlement of the issue.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1874	I would first like to thank the Council of State for the answer. This sounds a bit complicated, but I particularly appreciate the last sentence in the answer, stressing that all interested parties need to find a possible solution between the NRK and State Building acceptable, and that clarification must be made quickly. The situation in Norway's music high school is precarious in terms of locations, and the school is already, as is well known, merged with the Eastern Music Conservatory. But you don't get any profit from this merger because part of the school is up in Carl Berner's place, while another part is down in the major room. This means that students and teachers are almost incessantly on their way to and from the two rooms. The former facilities of the library high school are very low in terms of both ventilation and sound insulation. As soon as it gets warmer in the weather, the windows must be opened. Most of the neighbors are probably music lovers, but there are enough limits to what they can do with hour-long exercises on high-volume arias and melisms, mixed with the sound of exercises from all the other practice rooms at the same time. What will the Council of State do to make progress in this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1887	As the representative Rise says, this is a complicated matter, and it has taken time. We're now actively working on finding an overall solution for the total area, Suhms Gate 24 and Gyda's Road 6, and it's important to clarify that there has to be a solution that everyone can earn. In view of the result that I hope will come within a reasonable time, I will consider various action options. In this way, I cannot say anything else about the question, but that in these days it is also working actively, and that I will come back to the solution and action options as soon as I can. I can't promise an exact date.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1894	So we are now in a situation where the gain after the merger cannot be realised, and the situation is very regrettable for the university of music education, the very highest level of music education in Norway. The situation is also very difficult for the Faculty of Public Health, which has been working on the matter since the question came up in 1994. If the case goes further for several years, this may mean that the MF will have to start rehabilitating the current sites, and the entire project for both the music school and the MF may be grounded. This is very regrettable. The council was concerned about the issue of regulation, and I could imagine asking: What would the council do if the Municipality of Oslo chose to regulate the plot of dwellings? Will the State, as previously announced, then proceed to state regulation of the land? And how will the Council of State ensure that progress is very rapid in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1901	When the various options for action are available, as I said, I will take the initiative for further progress in the matter. I don't want to answer what I'm going to do given that the Oslo Municipality does this or that at this point. The result of the case will be of great importance both for the Faculty of Music and the Faculty of Music, but I would like to make it clear once again that I have to find solutions that take care of other interests. I know that the matter has taken a long time. However, constructive work is now under way, and all parties involved, including the Ministry of Administration, are well-served to find a quick solution.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1911	I will be asked the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘In February 1999, Secretary of State Per N. Hagen's a game about putting transformations into state levels on ice. On 19 March 1999, the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs told of the government's follow-up to the State Secretary's performance, and that they have now been «accompanied by the other departments» to put the reorganisations on ice. What are the adjustments in what state agencies the Government is now putting on ice, and how does this correspond to the Storting's previous treatment of the same issues?»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1920	There are currently processes of change in the tax system, the social security system, the police and judicial system that may affect the regional distribution of government jobs and the accessibility of these government services. As my predecessor Ragnhild Queseth Haarstad said in Stortinget's Question Time on March 3rd this year, in all these areas amendments will be submitted by the respective departments during the spring of 1999. The government has not decided to ice these processes in the sense that they should be stopped. However, the government has decided not to take political decisions that may have consequences for the location of jobs and services until the impact of district policy has been identified and clarified. Individually, any structural changes within these departments may be well justified, but the Government wants to avoid, as far as possible, the same communities being affected when several state agencies are rationalising simultaneously. In the cases where the Storting has already taken decisions on structural changes, for example: the reorganisation of agricultural policy instruments is not covered by the Government’s decision. In my statement of 20 April, I will come back to these questions. I would like, among other things: discuss what the Government will do in terms of possible relocations of state tasks and the efficiency improvements in the nation-wide state activities that I have mentioned above. The size will then be given the opportunity to discuss these issues in full.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1931	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am pleased that he determines that the decisions taken by the Stortinget should of course be followed up and not iced, so that one could get the impression in the course of the political debate. The Council of State here referred to some areas where proposals are to be submitted by the various departments in our own country. Let me just ask about one area, and that's what this is about the tax rate. In the spring of 1997, the Stortinget dealt with a position from the Control and Constitutional Committee, where one went through what was involved in the tax system – Equation Offices, Public Registers, etc. – and where there were at least some signs that there was a need to coordinate something more. Is there one of the things that the Government intends to come back to the Storting in ours, in accordance with the fact that the Storing here wanted changes, and that it would happen quite quickly?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1938	As I said in my first answer, the tax rate is also covered by the areas where individual departments will come forward with proposals during the spring, of course also in relation to a follow-up to the decisions taken by the Stortinget. What those proposals will look like is, of course, too early to say something about, but the departments are therefore aiming to present this in the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1943	I thank the Council again for the answer. I am pleased that proposals are being made in ours, and that there are clear signals from the Government that this is not about reorganisations that the Storting has clearly said about, and the direction in which they are going to go, being put on ice. It is important that such signals also be given to the professional establishments concerned. Let me follow up with some other areas that the Council of State did not mention, for example. what is now happening within the Post Office, where the Bondevik Government has actually closed more than 400 post offices in 1998. With regard to the reorganisation within Telenor, as a result of a merger with Telia, is there something that will stop, or is it going on? And when, for example, are the changes that have now occurred within the employment offices, where the Government has actually both closed down and merged, something that will be reversed, or is this also a process that is going on?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1952	Of course, changes are taking place in the areas where the Storing has decided to make changes. As I said in my first answer, the Government has decided that it does not want to make political decisions in the Government until it has been established what consequences these can have for jobs and services. I honestly believe that everyone is well served by now trying to see the sum of the effects of the measures adopted in the Stortinget, sees it in a context, and sees how to ensure that individual communities maintain the best possible service provision. It's the government's intention of the way we're now trying to carry out this work, and I think that must also be the purpose of the Storting. Of course, the decisions taken by Stortinget are being followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1964	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘Some non-pensioners experience that they lose the right to housing support on the day on which the mortgage has been paid for the dwelling in which they are rented. For families with children, the housing delimitation of rental dwellings relating to the source of funding has been changed so that housing support can also be provided to families with children living in privately funded rental dwellings. Will the Government consider an increased harmonisation of the housing delimitation legislation for the different groups covered by the housing aid scheme?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1973	Housing support has traditionally been linked to house-banked dwellings. In the 1990s, the demand for a source of funding has gradually increased. In line with the Waksenå Declaration, the Government proposed further improvements in housing support in the 1999 state budget with a view to making the legislation on the target groups more consistent. In addition, we saw the need to improve housing support for families with children. Therefore, for this group, the Bout poison rate increased to the level of pensioners, survivors and non-pensioners. It was also proposed to remove the housing restriction for families with children. This has been endorsed by Stortinget. In the housing aid code for old-age and non-early pensioners, the total income of the household determines whether housing and the form of financing are required. In general, no claim is made against disability pensioners for the source of funding for their dwellings. Similarly, there is currently no requirement for a source of funding for old-age and invalidity pensioners with income below 130pst. of the minimum pension, while with income between that limit and the formal income limit they are subject to the requirement of the method of financing of the dwelling. The government will work to make housing aid even more targeted, and to harmonise further legislation on families with children and pensioners. With regard to the relationship between the representative Torbjørn Andersen and the fact that a small group of disability pensioners lose the right to housing support because the mortgage in the dwelling in which they are tenants is paid down, I would like to point out that the government is continuing to make the housing aid independent of the form of funding, while maintaining that there are good and pleasant dwellings to be covered by housing support.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1982	I thank you for your answer. I think it was quite positive, and I think I can be satisfied with that answer. It is true that there is a separate legislation on housing support for families with children, and a legislation on housing support for old-age, disability and survivors' pensions, and it is right that for old-age, disability and survivors' pensions with income below or equal to the minimum pension plus 30 pst. – it'll be about. 88 816 kroner – there are no housing requirements. However, for other lone elderly and disabled people with income above these limits and up to NOK 136 000, the requirement for housing delimitation comes into the picture too fully. And an unemployed person who has income within these amounts can meet the criteria for housing support based on a need-tested relationship between income and housing costs, but feels that he cannot receive housing support because the house he lives in is not funded in the House Bank. It is completely unreasonable, and there should be changes here. If I interpret the council correctly, he'll look at this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1991	That's a correct description of today's situation that Torbjørn Andersen is now giving. As I said in my reply, the government is still working to make housing support more targeted and to harmonise the regulations for families with children and pensioners. We are also working on making housing aid independent of funding, and should thus be able to meet the needs of the representative Torbjørn Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e1998	I thank you for your answer. I just want to say that the background to my question to the Council of State is that I have received specific enquiries from the dubious minimum pensioners – no, pensioners – who feel that they are losing their right to, or are not entitled to housing support simply because the housing they live in is no longer, or never has been, funded in the House Bank. A disability pensioner, such as: renting a dwelling in a house-funded house, can therefore experience that on the day on which the owner of the dwelling has paid his mortgage, he may lose the right to housing support. But the house is still a house-banking house, and the butchers are still the same for this pensioner. And that the lessee is going to get the money for this – let's say – the financial change to the owner of the house, seems completely meaningless. I am therefore very pleased with the signals given by the Council of State that he will do something about this very unfair system that I am pointing out here, and that he will take the initiative to change the rules. I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e2007	I guess it was a delay, but I still want to make it clear that this constraint does not apply to minimum pensioners, but pensioners who have a pension of over 130 pst. of the minimum pension. I agree with Andersen's representative that this can give an unreasonable impression, and that is also one of the reasons why the government is working on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e2012	: Case No. 1, the question mark, is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-14.ana.ud252e2022	There is no record.
