ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e34	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given to the exchange of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It is seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e45	The draft law that Odelstinget is dealing with today is intended to replace the hospital law and the organisational provisions of the Law on Mental Health Protection. The law is largely a continuation and modernisation of existing law, but also contains several important changes. The Committee has welcomed the fact that the law covers the entire specialist healthcare service, which underlines that mental health protection does not represent a special care in the healthcare sector. The legislative proposal must be seen in the context of the proposal for a common law on health professionals, which has already been dealt with by Odelstinget, and the proposals for the law on the establishment and implementation of mental health protection and the law on patient rights. It is important that these four major health laws are coordinated, and the Committee has therefore found it right that they be dealt with at the same time, so that they can be seen more easily in the context. During the Committee's work on the Special Health Service Act, the Sørensen Committee, which evaluated forms of association for public hospitals, presented its investigation. A majority of the Committee would like to base the conclusion of this selection on the treatment of the specialised health service law in this area, but this would have resulted in a postponement of the legislative procedure. The Committee therefore asks the Government to come to the Stortinget as soon as it can, with proposals for hospital affiliations based on the Sørensen Committee's investigation. However, a majority of the committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the SV, are critical of converting public hospitals into limited liability companies. The legislative proposal follows up decisions taken by Stortinget, in particular the treatment of St.melding by Storting. No 50 for 1993-94, Cooperation and governance. Objectives and instruments for better health care, and St.meld. No 24 for 1996-97, Availability and professionalism. About hospitals and other specialist health services, and suggestions in NOU 1997:2, the patient first! Hospital management and organisation. Most hearing bodies have been positive about the revision and coordination of the legislation carried out in the legislativeproposition. The recommendation of the Committee follows the proposal. There are also six minority proposals, reflecting the different political views on the organisation of the specialist health service, which will be taken up by representatives of the respective parties. The specialist healthcare service is not a medical concept, but a generic term for the healthcare for which a person has not found it appropriate to be responsible at municipal level. Under the law in force, the scope of the law is linked to specific listed institutions and services, while the scope of the new law is defined by the specialist health service concept, which includes the services that counties are currently obliged to provide under the hospital law and the law on mental health protection. The Committee agrees that this is appropriate. The general objectives of the law are set out in the purpose paragraph. The aim of the Act is, in particular, to promote public health and to combat disease, harm, suffering and disability, to contribute to ensuring the quality of service provision, to contributing to an equivalent service provision, to making best use of resources, and to adapting the service provision to the needs of patients and to making it available to patients. The Committee considers it important that the objectives are equivalent. Unless otherwise specified, the law applies to specialist health services provided or provided in the State by the county, state and private. Responsibilities and general tasks are described in the chapter of the Act. 2nd@item: inlistbox It is the county that is responsible for the proper provision of specialist health services, while not necessarily having to be the service provider itself. In this way, the law distinguishes to a greater extent than the existing law between the county municipality as responsible for the existence of the service provision and as a service provider. With regard to the air ambulance service, the responsibility of the State for this is passed on in a new legal text, with the Air Ambulance Committee being consulted. The Committee considers it appropriate that any changes be submitted to the Storting after the end of the consultation process. The duty of soundness of health services provided or provided under this Act is a fundamental principle which corresponds to the provisions of the Health Care Act, where the same obligation is imposed on individuals. The Christian People's Party will place considerable emphasis on the concept of health care as a fundamental pillar of health care. The duty of safety underlines a quality requirement that ensures a good standard of health care for the population. The accountability requirement also implies that the owner and management of, for example: a hospital is responsible for facilitating the proper performance of the tasks of each healthcare professional. Responsibility is a key concept in the relationship between health care and patients and should ensure trust in the health care system. Patients in need of long-term and coordinated services will also benefit from the proposed obligation to prepare individual plans for such patients. I see it as essential that this is set up for cooperation with other service providers, so that the plan will contribute to an overall offer to patients. Discrimination is also a key word in this context. It is also important and positive that a provision is now introduced for the training, refresher training and further training of health professionals. The requirement of health care is also central to § 3-9. Hospital management, where there is no general requirement for the competence of hospital department managers, but it is clarified that, if the requirement of health care so requires, medical counsellors are to be identified. Specific qualification requirements may be laid down by the Ministry. A majority of the Committee endorses the proposal in Sections 5 to 5 that the Ministry may each year determine the number of new specialist medical posts in each medical specialty of institutions and services included in the regional health plans, as well as the number of new premises for private specialist practice in the regions and the number of new specialist medical posts in each specialty of state institutions and services. In the view of the Christian People's Party, this is the necessary regulatory measures to prevent the over-establishment of doctors in central districts and to ensure a more equivalent health offer to all residents of the country, regardless of their place of residence. The starting point of the legislative proposal is to ensure sound specialist health care. In this context, some adjustments to organisational and management issues have been proposed, including: through a proposal for a single accountable manager at all levels of the hospital, while at the same time correctly highlighting the specific position of doctors, kfr. proposals for medical counsellor and for patient-responsible physician. Furthermore, no comprehensive regulation of organisational conditions has been proposed. We all see that political and social as well as medical technological developments in the future could lead to strong demands for business conversion and adaptation. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, the proposal for a law on specialist health care balances these considerations in a good way, and I recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e81	Odelstinget shall today adopt an important and comprehensive law on the specialist health service to replace the current hospital law. The legislation has been prepared by two governments and has been thoroughly discussed in the Committee. In the Workers' Party, we believe that the specialist health service is provided with a modern and up-to-date law that also contains some flexibility, which a health care system is constantly in need of. It is also an important point that the new law should cover the entire specialist health service, by also replacing the organisational provisions of the Law on Mental Health Protection. In this way, the legislator stresses that mental health protection is not a special concern in the healthcare sector, but an integral part of the Norwegian health system. In parallel with the fact that the Social Committee has worked on the new law for hospitals, a government-appointed selection has fully assessed key issues relating to the management and future form of association of hospitals. For the sake of the whole, it would have been clear that it would have been desirable for the Stortinget to deal with the principal aspects of connectivity in the context of the present setting. I would therefore like to stress strongly that the government has to come to Stortinget with proposals for a form of association for the hospitals built on the Sørensen Committee's investigation. The question of the hospital's form of connection is raised by the fact that the City Council of the Right in Oslo wants to transform the hospitals Ullevål and Aker into limited liability companies. Hospitals are the largest and third largest in the country and form a very important part of the Norwegian health service. How Oslo chooses to organise its hospitals is not a curative matter that concerns only Oslo, but an important national matter that needs to be seen in the context of meeting national health policy objectives. I am strongly concerned and surprised if a very limited majority in Oslo is trying to push forward a share company solution for large parts of our healthcare system before the new law we are now dealing with has entered into force. It will not least put the Christian People's Party in Oslo in a strange light. It is therefore important to note that a majority of the social committee, and hence of the Stortingen, is clearly critical of converting public hospitals into limited liability companies. In particular, I would like to highlight the majority’s reasoning that the combination of free hospital choice and large hospitals in key areas that organise themselves as public limited liability companies poses a significant risk for the centralisation of the specialist healthcare service. The majority also warn that it will be possible to return to the ownership structure and form of ownership in connection with the treatment of the Sørensen Committee. A broad majority believe that the form of association may have an impact on the achievement of the overall health policy objectives. On the part of the Workers' Party, we assume that, in the light of the attitude of the Social Committee, the Minister of Health will ensure that no public hospital is converted into a limited company until the Stortinget has dealt with the matter on a principle basis. With the authorisation system proposed by the law and the clear committee comments available, the Minister of Health has the tools and mandate needed to safeguard national health policy interests. I would like to ask the Minister of Health to clarify whether we can now count on the Government to put an end to what the political majority has proposed in terms of transforming two of the country's largest hospitals into a limited liability company. The Municipal Association, the Nursing Association, the YS, the AF and other organizations have gone against such transformation, and I think many voters want a clear answer to what the Government and the Christian People's Party intend to do in this matter. I find it natural that questions are asked as to whether in the extension of AS formations there are motives or plans to proceed with the sale or partial sale of a public hospital. From the Labour Party we are therefore very pleased that a broad majority in this position still underlines county ownership of the public hospitals, and that it is therefore not relevant to the sale of such hospitals. The overall aim of the Workers' Party's health policy is that the entire population have equal access to important health services irrespective of economic, social and housing conditions. Equality is best ensured through a strong and supportive public health system throughout the country. It is the severity of the individual suffering and not the economy of the individual to decide when to treat patients. Health challenges remain high. Many good reforms have been proposed by both former workers' party governments and the central government. But much remains to be done about better organisation of our hospitals. As far as I have been able to enter the Sørensen Committee's setting, it seems that good analyses have been carried out. Unfortunately, the general impression is good, when the sample points out that hospital management has an unclear mandate to manage hospitals, that management lacks normal authority on personnel issues, that access to investment funds is often random, and that hospital management is easily subjected to day-to-day intervention. Today’s management experience suggests that management needs to be given a clearer and longer-term mission to manage hospitals. In addition, governance is characterised by a lack of clarification of the role of the State and the county council as the governing body. I have noticed that the majority in the sample believe that municipal enterprises or municipal companies are the best alternatives to today's organisation. On the one hand, it shows that hospitals are publicly owned, under popular control, and that county councils have a necessary financial control over hospitals. On the other hand, hospitals become legally independent organisations, giving them a clearer responsibility and a formal authority for day-to-day operations. The internal organisation of hospitals has long been characterised by fragmentation, intransigence and professional conflict. The new law to be adopted today significantly improves the organisation. The working party will stress the importance of the introduction of unified management with one accountable manager at each level of the hospitals, and that there should be managerial qualifications and not professional membership which should be essential for management employment. It is worth noting that an overall committee believes that all hospitals need to be required for effective management and clear responsibilities. A unanimous committee points out that many patients today experience little predictability in relation to when they can expect treatment and what treatment is going on, and that many patients experience repeated or repeated surgery. The Committee considers that the information procedures and the internal organisation of hospitals need to be significantly improved in order to show the respect of sick people by providing them with sufficient information on the healthcare they are looking for. The serious criticism that a unanimous committee is behind requires that something be done. It is therefore necessary, in my view, that the Patient Rights Act ensures that patients experience greater predictability and better information about the assistance they have in sight. The working party also attaches great importance to better division of work between hospitals. The regional health committees for cooperation and functional distribution between hospitals are therefore important. By approving the regional health plans, the Ministry has a tool to ensure a functional division that helps to increase efficiency and, in particular, to strengthen the professional environments and to improve the quality of services. Practice does master, and everyone can't do everything. I believe that more and more knowledgeable patients in the future will demand quality to a far greater extent than so far. Free hospital choice could also contribute to increased competition between hospitals and, hopefully, contribute to improving the quality of services. The patient has been placed first through previous reforms – through the introduction of a 30-day assessment guarantee, a three-month treatment guarantee for severe suffering and the right to free hospital choice in the health region. In this context, the law now introduces a system of patient-responsible doctors in hospitals, which will increase the safety and predictability of the individual patient throughout the treatment period. It is clear that the law incorporates a provision that expresses the tasks of hospitals, namely patient treatment, training of health professionals, research and training of patients and relatives. With regard to the training of health professionals, it is important to note that an extension of training to which health care institutions are obliged to participate is proposed to include health professionals, apprentices, students, turnaround candidates and specialists. In extending the obligation of institutions to participate in training, the Workers’ Party considers it natural to consider whether private practitioners, clinical psychologists and physiotherapists with a public operating contract should also assist in the training of new health professionals. An important challenge now is to give individual hospitals greater freedom and flexibility in how to solve these tasks, but not to undermine national health policy objectives locally. The existing law will provide the county councils with a modern and more flexible system that will enable hospital owners to better meet the needs of patients in a rapidly and comprehensively changing society. Finally, I would like to address the proposals promoted by the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e132	The representative, Gunhild Island, has drawn up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e135	Let me start by thanking the case rapporteur for a neat and good presentation of the present position, and let me also take it upon myself to congratulate the Minister of Health and the Government fraction on the fact that, through the discussion in the Committee, the legislative proposal has not come up with a single majority proposal to amend the legislative text. However, let me be honest to say that there is no reason to congratulate future users of the specialist healthcare service, nor the professional expertise in our hospital with the present position. One does not write future-oriented health policy history with the present setting. It is in my opinion one of the main reasons why the majority fraction, consisting of the Labour Party and the government parties, has not changed a single paragraph of the law, namely that both the current Minister of Health and the previous Minister of Health are fathers of the bill. Because of this two-sided fatherhood, it seems to me that there has been good cooperation between the Workers' Party and the government parties during the examination of the legislative proposal in the Committee. The government parties and the Workers' Party still appear to be more concerned with the political detailed management of our public health services than with patients' rights and the need for stronger relief and predictable funding from hospitals. I am not surprised that the Workers' Party's governance in health policy is so strongly reflected in the present position, but I am really both surprised and, in part, deeply disappointed by the Christian People's Party, which in the past has had some impetus for innovation in our health care in recent years, a new idea which, in my opinion, is absent in the present position. The Christian People's Party is in line with the central party, KS and county councils, and the latter two have not made a particularly positive contribution in recent years to the care of users' interests in the specialist health service. The KS and County Councils are fully aware of user involvement and are particularly anxious to give users legal rights in relation to our public health system. The majority state in their note on page 15 of the second column that they are critical of converting public hospitals into AS. This may thwart the decision of the Municipality of Oslo to convert Ullevål and Aker hospitals into AS. This is where the Progress Party will promise to fight. According to the proposal, the KS and the county councils have also effectively prevented the state health authorities from obtaining more sanctions in the form of daily fines or corporate penalties. This despite the fact that a unanimous social committee during the 1998 budgetary procedure would need to extend and strengthen the sanctioning possibilities of the State Health Authority in the event of a breach of the hospital law and asked the Ministry to assess this. The present suspension will not prevent future professional conflicts, since neither the organisational or management structure of the hospitals is sufficiently clarified in the proposition or setting. The same professional health requirements imposed on health professionals in the Health Care Act are not imposed on the hospital owner and driver in the present position. A proper and sensible discussion of system liability versus personal responsibility is not mentioned in both the proposition and in the majority comments. Internal organisation and management are left to the individual hospital owner, so that the dispute over management jobs will continue. As the Progress Party sees it, it must be clear that the person with the medical responsibility for the patient's treatment must also have authority, i.e. instruction authority over all other health professionals in the hospital. However, the law provides for the acceptance of two- or multi-part management, and in this context a completely new professional title is created, namely medical counsellor, which should be able to advise the non-professional director even in clinical departments. However, the medical counsellor, a doctor, cannot make independent decisions. This is underlined by the majority on page 25, first column. This system thinks I can go on safety loose for the patients. The two parties that in recent years have significantly benefited from the innovation and modernisation of Norwegian health care and health policy, namely the Progress Party and the Right, and which have so far been able to benefit from the waiting period guarantee, input-based funding, free hospital choice and a stronger release of hospitals, have strong comments and several legislative amendments that go to the continued development and modernisation of the Norwegian hospital system for the benefit of patients, but are unfortunately in a minority in the position. However, this minority is not insignificant. I think it would be wise for the government in the future to also focus on what these two parties stand for, and what amendments they have promoted in the vote, but today they do not get a majority. The working party and SV ask on page 30, first column questions about the price financing. The input-based funding is so far the only new instrument that has resulted in fewer breaches of the guarantee in 1998. The Progress Party and the Right have an amendment to the second paragraph of Section 2-3 that goes to the organisation and proper organisation of hospitals, so that the operation is arranged in a way that enables health professionals to fulfil their statutory obligations. Responsibility for something that goes wrong in a hospital may in many cases be due to organisational and system failures, and therefore responsibility should not be imposed unilaterally on individual health professionals. Organisation, procedures and systems are the responsibility of hospital owners and management. The Progress Party will change the current waiting-time guarantee scheme and return the individual patient’s priorities to the specialist. The change is in brief that when assessing the patient, the hospital/supervisor shall set a legally binding time limit when the treatment is to be carried out and that the passage of this time limit shall give the patient the right to treatment at other hospitals domestically or abroad for public account. In fact, today we have a more or less politically guided priority of sick people who the Progress Party finds unacceptable. A major weakness in the law on professional accountability is that the legal text does not oblige hospitals to appoint a patient-responsible doctor. Together with the Right, the Progress Party in the recommendation suggests that hospitals be required to appoint a patient-responsible physician for each patient. The Progress Party promotes legislative amendments in Section 4-1, third paragraph, which states that only professional criteria should be taken into account when approving hospitals and health institutions, and that the same criteria should apply both to public health services and to private health services. As the legal text of the suspension states, the Ministry may use ‘social’ considerations to avoid approving private health services, social considerations that are exclusively politically governed. The advancement party is still of the opinion that you should not have a public directing of health professionals or doctors. The party was strongly opposed to the former ULS and cannot support the new system of ministerial medical regulation. Experience from previous different regulatory arrangements has, as everyone knows, not provided the desired results. A centralized medical regulation would, in my opinion, be strongly contrary to a stronger release of hospitals and also very unfortunate in relation to free hospital choice. We in the Progress Party believe that the market with different positive incentives is also able to provide a far better spread of doctors than under public regulations. The progressing party also believes that the specialist deficiency is generally not as great as you would like it to be. A relatively large number of private specialists currently work in non-specialist services, such as general practitioners, occupational doctors and private practitioners – this is due to a lack of public and county operating contracts. The Progress Party believes that the legislative proposal, as it stands in this position, in most important areas is not progress in relation to the current hospital law. After an overall assessment of the present proposition and positioning, the Progress Party has come to the conclusion that we will vote against the whole law, after our amendments have been voted down in Odelstinget. Finally, I would like to address the proposals of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, and of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure,
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e173	John I. Alvheim has taken up the battles he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e176	Today's debate and decision is the preliminary end point for many years' debate on health reforms. There have been three health ministers — the latter of whom are still well-kept against. So today, all the health messages have to be dropped as a new hospital law – but now it is no longer called hospital law, now it is called the specialist health service law. The law is probably a little bit better, if not linguistically. The new law replaces the hospital law of 19 June 1969, for which Jo Benkow was the case rapporteur. It remained for quite exactly 30 years, and it was a breakthrough for public responsibility for the healthcare system when it arrived in 1969. I honestly don't think it's going to take so much fortune-telling to predict that the new law, which is being passed today, will not have an equally long life. Although the majority have moved a little more each year towards the new health policy, where user interests, patient rights, are at the centre – and for which the Progress Party and the Right have been spearheads – the law that is likely to be adopted today is primarily a patchwork on today’s system. The majority go a little bit toward leaving patients' needs governing, but so much remains that the Right has chosen to present its own bill. We do that to show how to get a nationally managed and publicly funded health system, where patients need to be secured quickly and well-treated and help where there is free capacity, and where we see the country as a whole. Because we believe that it is the needs of patients and not local policy considerations that should override what benefits the individual patient. The right considers that the Norwegian health system is over-mature for reforms. Norway has to become a health-rich country, so that we do not have to be guest patients in our own country. System changes and greater financial effort are essential to provide more and more patients with faster help. That is why, to a great extent, we must have a willingness to change and radical reforms in order to get away from a health care system that is unfortunately characterised by games and disclaimer between administrative levels. However, I am the first to stress that there is no single solution or magic form to make the health care problems evaporate. A comprehensive strategy must be adopted, including patient rights, funding, organisation and ownership. It should not be difficult to recognise that old instruments are no longer appropriate. Now that we have a majority for free hospital choice – if not today, as soon as – are getting more and more input from intervention-driven funding and state approval of regional health plans, there are, of course, concessions that the old instruments with full framework funding, the staff band that has worked up to now, treatment in the county in which you live, are no longer appropriate, and that county municipalities have become an inappropriate and restrictive intermediary. So the government parties, the Workers' Party and SV still choose to maintain the county municipality. It seems to me then that they say it is more important to maintain a level of administration of local policy considerations than to take on the basis of health policy assessments. They choose a level of administration for local policy purposes rather than a health measure entirely based on patients’ premises. And it's allowed, it's fully possible, but it's not the optimal solution, from the patient's point of view. County councils are too small to operate many of the specialised services provided by hospitals today. They do no bad work, they do as best they can, but they have become an unnecessary and inappropriate level of administration. Even though some people, especially on the left, prefer to make Right as a party of state terror, it's not like that. It has always been a central conservative principle that the State should be responsible for the management of primary joint tasks in order to ensure as much equivalent an offer as possible to all. Health, care and safety are such key common tasks. Therefore, the Right defends a strong but limited state power. Exploses the state's resources thinly above everything and everyone, as it does today, it'll probably be big, but at the same time weak. That's why it's our opinion that we need to concentrate on the core tasks so that we can solve them much better than we do today. The Right's Specialist Health Act is a law based on national responsibility and local freedom. Only when government and enlargement are responsible for the functional distribution and allocations can we ensure equal treatment wherever we live, across county and regional borders. So the right model is based on state responsibility for hospitals. Only in this way can we guarantee an equivalent treatment, only in this way can we end the disclaimer and the unworthy game between state, state and municipality. That's just how we can make Norway a health area, and make it superfluous for the guest patient to settle. We are in favour of an overall government governance with a high degree of local freedom to choose both internal and formal organisation. In this way, we get a modest central management combined with regional offices that lead to a slimmer and a smaller bureaucracy than the majority put up in their new model. And I would like to say that it is not because of the management, or perhaps lack of control, of the state hospitals that the Right is in favour of the state taking responsibility for the hospitals, rather in spite of it. We do not want any kind of state detail management of the individual hospital. The most important thing is not that the state owns the hospitals, but what degree of freedom the state gives the individual hospital to operate within adopted standards, functions and finances. In our model, the task of the size will be to adopt a separate hospital grant consisting of framework funding for state regional offices and a piece price for the individual hospital. This is how we avoid gambling and disclaimer, so we get the responsibility placed. We're made visible if the grant granted by Stortinget is large enough to be able to treat the patients we want to guarantee treatment. We believe that the Storting must adopt a national hospital plan that defines the distribution of national and regional functions and does not carry out detailed planning. We therefore want regional government offices to allocate the framework appropriations to hospitals in the region, in order to ensure local responsibility for what is determined locally, and to prevent the building of a large central bureaucracy. The regional offices shall also provide the distribution of central and local hospital functions as well as immediate assistance and elective functions. Such a system will therefore provide a much smaller and slimmer bureaucracy than the majority require, in the case of still county-owned hospitals, which are to be dominated by regional health committees, where the state can sit at the top and also override them by using its veto rights. In our model, the public and approved private sick homes will compete to provide the best possible and the best possible patient care, and they will receive, as I have said, unit price income directly from patient treatment. Hospitals shall be exempted from the selection of organisational models and shall be able to operate freely within the financial and professional frameworks provided. These are the main points of the Right Model, but unfortunately we don't get a majority for that today. That is, as we see it, certain improvements to the majority's proposal in relation to the current law, as we are given a decision that there should be individual level, uniform hospital management and activity-dependent grants, and we get a regulation – just a regulation – on patients' responsibility doctor. But this too is not enough to allow the Right to vote in favour of the majority's proposals when our own are fallen. Finally, a few words about this debate on the Sørensen Committee and the hospital affiliations. So, as I said, right-hand relief from hospitals, we're convinced that release means better hospitals and freer hospitals. We avoid political detailing, that's what's been the main problem, that's what the Sørensen Committee describes. It amazes me, therefore, that the Workers' Party in particular, but also the government parties, is trying to use the Sørensen Committee's position as a breakpoint to stop Oslo Municipality's decision to convert Ullevål and Aker hospitals into municipal ASs. It is true that the majority of the Sørensen Committee believes that the selection's new construction of municipal companies is preferable to a limited company, but the majority of the population subsides in the position, and Gunhild Eyeågen did so in its contribution, that the majority of the Sørensen Committee believes that hospitals and hospital owners should be free and should choose the form of association based on what is best at local level. The majority of the Sørensen Committee will also allow hospital owners, in addition to administrative organisation, to choose forms of association where hospitals are independent legal entities. The majority of the Sørensen range prints on page 87 of its setting: ‘As a consequence, the majority consider that municipal company, state undertaking, limited liability company and foundation should all be accessible forms of association for public hospitals. ‘... The majority in the Sørensen committee say that the hospital owners themselves have to assess and choose the form of association, and then they say that they add ‘essential emphasis on the freedom of association of hospital owners as a fundamental democratic and administrative consideration’. It would surprise me very much if the government parties and the Minister of Health, who has asked for the Sørensen Committee's position, would use it to oppose a large majority in the Sørensen Committee, including patients' representatives in the majority, and oppose their main conclusion, namely that local self-government should be provided, and that it should be up to each county to decide which form of association between the administrative body and the AS or the foundation of the individual county – or, for Oslo, the city council – determines. On the right, there is no sauna perception that the form of the limited liability company is the only proper form of association for free hospitals. Other models may also prove appropriate. But to know for sure about that, you have to be willing to try out and gain political experience. The most important thing is to give hospital leaders greater freedom so that patients can get faster and better help. Here is the majority in the Sørensen Committee and the Right on the same layer. The difference between different forms of association need not be so great in practice, because through the statutes and the arrangements of governance, an AS can be organised in such a way that it will function to a large extent as the recommended model of the Sørensen Committee, namely as a municipal company. At the press conference where the chairman of the Sørensen Committee presented the selection, he called – if I don't remember wrong – the municipal company for a protected AS. And that's what it really is. That's why, as I said, we don't have any great attitudes to that being AS. But we have abastant view that when such a large majority in a public-appointed sample recommends that county municipalities themselves should choose the form of association and not warn against any of them – even if they prefer something else – neither should grubbing up and government put obstacles in the way of the process that has gone into Oslo and that will surely get elsewhere. There is a problem that municipal companies are not yet an accessible form of connection. That's the AS form. The reforms will take time, but the need for change is great. Therefore, the Minister of Health or the majority of the population should not put any obstacles in the way, put any shackles in the wheels, for the democratic process that has gone – and will continue to go – in the Municipality of Oslo. I expect the Minister of Health today to state clearly that he will not seek to prevent the local democratic process in which Oslo is now involved. In any case, he should not do so by reference to the sample he has appointed, where a large majority recommends that municipal self-government should be provided. Then I must finally bring up the Right proposal, no. 6, which is included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e229	Annelise Höegh has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e232	The government is proposing a new law on specialist health care to replace the 1969 Hospital Act and the Organisational Provisions of the 1961 Law on Mental Health Protection. In other words, the term ‘specialist’ includes the services that counties currently have the obligation to provide under the hospital law and the mental health protection law. The centre party considers such a summary to be appropriate. The legislative proposal must be seen in the context of proposals for a law on patient rights, proposals for a common law on health professionals and proposals for a law on the establishment and implementation of mental health protection. The proposal for a law on specialist health services is to a large extent a continuation and modernisation of existing law, but it also contains important changes. Some of the changes promoted by the Government are: a stronger distinction between the county of responsibility for the existence of the service provision and the county of the appropriate service provider's obligation to provide the proper service is expressed in its own legal text, an obligation for the municipal health service and the county of the municipality to draw up individual plans for patients requiring long-term and coordinated provision of healthcare; It is also proposed to put in place a patient-responsible doctor or nurse scheme in hospitals. We believe that such a system in the Center Party will be very positive. It will ensure the follow-up of the individual patient in the best possible way, and the patient himself will have better opportunity to follow up on the treatment schedule. This may help to improve treatment and final performance. The centre party considers it particularly important that children who have to be hospitalised should be provided with as much security as possible and that parents should not be subject to additional concerns and financial burdens in this respect. We are therefore pleased with the proposal that expenses incurred by parents or other close relatives in connection with the hospital stay of children should be covered by the hospital. The central party is at all pleased with the Government's proposals and that there is a majority for the main content of these new proposals. In particular, we are satisfied with the equality of somatic and psychiatric health services, which is a step in the right direction not to stigmatise psychiatric diseases. One of the main challenges facing health services is to fill the undisputed medical conditions in Norway, while providing a more balanced medical coverage where District Norway does not come out worse than central strokes. In this respect, it is good that all parties in the Committee, with the exception of the Advance Party, express concern about the lack of a doctor in the districts. At the same time, I think it is a pity that the Right does not follow up the expressed concern of practical policy. There are some important issues in this setting. The centre party believes that, when authorising health institutions, it should be able to focus on both professional, social and health policy considerations. Neither the Advancement Party nor the Right will take social considerations. The Centre Party believes that the transformation of large hospitals into public limited liability companies, combined with free hospital choice, poses a risk of centralisation of the specialist health service, thereby reducing the provision of services to the population in the districts. The centre party will therefore again stress that we are still in favour of county ownership of the public hospitals, and that it is not appropriate to sell such hospitals. It is also in line with the Government's declaration by the Adultåsen. The central party considers that the scheme of an annual framework grant from the State to the county municipality should be continued. The Progress Party and the Right want more input-based funding, a form of funding that, when it becomes too heavy, takes into account effective treatment in the interests of chronically ill people and a health system based on treatment services at different levels and with a varied hospital structure. The Government has submitted appropriate coordination of old laws and proposed sensible changes that have combined support. The main distinction is – as before – the willingness to take social considerations into account in health policy, where consideration of the nature of the disease and consideration for equivalent services across the country is given to the effectiveness of treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e270	The purpose of the law on specialist health services has not been a problem for the Committee to be able to stand together. The purpose of the law is to promote public health and to combat disease, injury, suffering and disability. Furthermore, it states that it should contribute to ensuring the quality of service provision, to contributing to an equivalent provision of health services and to maximising the use of resources. It shall also contribute to adapting the service provision to the patient’s needs and to making it available to patients. About that time, Adam could remain in Paradise. You can hear here when the head of the social committee swings his whip over the other parties, with the exception of the Right, that some seem to be able to sunbathe in their own radiance because they have found the solutions that could provide a better health care. And that's exactly what you do, after having had an impact on a part of their party's policy, in a situation where the lack of doctors in the districts is greater than ever, and you can see that the local hospitals are struggling in reverse. This is precisely a consequence of the policy that is said to be user-adapted, which is intended to provide a better offer and an equivalent offer, and which has thus been taken into consideration in Section 1-1. I think it's interesting that the committee leader says that it has to end public detail management now, after the same director and his party have been involved in detail management all the way down to the pill level, and one discusses and promotes suggestions related to the individual hospital in order to determine and provide guidance on how the operation should be. In some of those cases, it has not been difficult for SV to support the Progress Party, precisely because we see in individual cases the need for detailed management, but then the committee leader and his party have to decide for which foot to stand on, so that you do not both take your mouth too full and insist. I want to draw some single points in terms of the law, as I think it is important to emphasise. SV was standing alone on a recital related to the air ambulance service, where we clearly believe that the State should continue to have overall responsibility. It will be difficult to see the county boundaries – at least when you are in the air – and it would hardly make sense. Compared to the waiting list registration, we have stressed that the registration that has been made has been a strength, but that the tool is not good enough in itself, and that types of tools should have been developed that looked at the differences between health regions to ensure a smoothing of supply differences. Obviously, where an offer is made, there is also a demand created. It may differ most in different regions, and the waiting lists will not capture it. It has also been important for SV to ensure the right to training for health professionals, and this is also done in Section 2-7. It is very positive that it is emphasised that responsibility is attached to training. However, it must be emphasised that there should be a responsibility not only for the public hospital units and public service providers but also for private operators when concluding agreements with the public, and also without the existence of such agreements. It would be very unfortunate to shift more and more of the responsibility to the public, and then you get a kind of release of private actors that increase earnings but don't take social responsibility in the same way as the public. In line with the Labour Party, I would also like to stress here on behalf of SV that the developments we see in Oslo related to AS models are extremely worrying, precisely because they affect users. This may affect users, for example: in Oslo, by the fact that the sale of parts of the business is linked to private health insurance. You get a prioritisation of buyers of that kind of service. The selection does not provide equivalence in the provision of health services, those to be prioritised are those which are the healthiest and which have been approved for that type of insurance. I believe that both the Right Party and the Advance Party in their comments from this pulpit take too easily that there may be other underlying motives, which are as price-worthy and useful as those of the two parties, when they are seeking to achieve equivalence in the offer, and to throw themselves into such an experiment as the Right Party and the Advance Party put up here, are, after all, associated with considerable risks. I would like to end by saying that SV believed that this law should have been postponed to the Sørensen committee's investigation and that it had been processed by the department. The Progress Party had ample opportunity to support this. They did not, SV remained alone with their proposal. But we take responsibility for having now had a full review of the law, and will support the bill as it exists, but it is a blow in the air when the Progress Party here today is going to vote against a law that they were not even willing in the social committee to get exposed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e290	In the left, we are very pleased with the current bill on the specialist health service, etc. Although the proposal is to a large extent a continuation and modernisation of existing legislation, the proposed changes are important. The aim of the law is to ensure a more flexible healthcare service, while emphasising good resource use, adaptation to patients’ needs and availability. In terms of organisation and form of association, the Left will support the majority of the Committee, which says that the public health service must be the primary pillar of the specialist health service and that the service must be equally good for all citizens. We must therefore choose forms of organisation that support these main objectives. This is likely to require different solutions, which one will come back to. The Health Care Professional Act established an individual obligation for healthcare professionals to provide adequate services. This is continued here in relation to more general provisions for the county, which are responsible for the specialist health service. This is a major obligation, both to provide competent staff, medical equipment and a high level of knowledge in the organisations. Responsibilities also apply to the obligation to draw up individual plans for patients in need of long-term and coordinated services. Such plans will make treatment more predictable and structured, both for service providers and patients. The fact that the patient has a responsible doctor and nurse to deal with will reinforce this. A constant listener hears stories that patients have to deal with a large number of people with different perceptions of how treatment should be. A written plan and a few responsible people will be very useful to patients. The law also provides for enhanced cooperation between groups of health professionals and the different levels of service. Although a law does not automatically change people's working habits, one must expect that this is a system that has a positive effect on both economics and patient mobility. The left is also very pleased with the commitment to enhanced regional cooperation and the development of regional health plans. We believe that this will lead to better use of both economic and human resources.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e305	I'm just going to talk about a few things that have been up in the debate now – first to the representative Annelise Högh who said something about other parties in the new health policy moving towards the Right, among other things. in view of patient rights. I would like to remind the representative Annelise Höegh that it was the government Harlem Brundtland v/health minister Werner Christie who, in 1994, promoted a health report that laid the foundation and drew up the framework of the patient rights law that we are going to deal with in a few days' time in Odelstinget. So I noticed that the representative Alvheim was involved in a matter related to effort-driven financing. Both the Workers' Party and SV have pointed to the need to follow closely the effects of this scheme, and I might believe that the debate in these days on the government's surprising down-regulation of county council income from the ISF scheme should ensure that the scheme is not without problems. The Workers' Party has proposed the introduction of the scheme, and we stand by that. We also want this system to continue, because we believe it to be correct, but we are concerned that the Right Party and the Advance Party have put a strong pressure on it to make it more and more a price-funded system. With such a system, one would be at risk of losing control of costs. So the Sørensen Committee and the question about AS. The Labour Party believes, as the representative Gunhild Eyering did, that it would be very unfortunate if the country's largest and third largest hospitals were to be converted into AS, even before the selection deadline had been for political treatment. I think it could have totally uncontrollable effects to turn these hospitals into independent AS organisations. The AS form is, as you know, a system based on business and returns, and I think it would be very unfortunate to try out an AS model in such a large hospital, which can quickly attract health professionals in a free system at the expense of the other hospitals. And I guess we all know in this room who's most vulnerable. I assume that the purpose of an AS is to facilitate that hospitals can decide more on, for example. employment and pay. I hardly think that such a system builds up under a solidarity of health policy in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e316	The government’s proposal for a new law on specialist health services is part of the comprehensive reform of health legislation with a total of five legislative proposals addressed by the Stortinget. The legislative proposal is thus a coordinated part of a modern framework for the development of a national health service — which is rationally driven, of good quality and is a service to the individual. The proposal for a law on specialist health care is intended to constitute a whole to facilitate equal accessibility and sound health care. The health requirement applies to health professionals as well as to the individual hospital and the hospital owner. Law on specialist health services replaces the hospital law and the organisational provisions of the law on mental health protection. In health policy, there are two main lines. One is strongly in the direction of the market, the use of market incentives and a stronger exemption. The second track is moving towards greater emphasis on planning and control. In the debate, these two tracks tend to be set as counterpolished. I would say that in many ways there are tracks that need to complement each other in a modern health policy. We need market incentives and the benefits of exemption in terms of flexible adaptation to service provision, but we also need the overall policy governance and plan to ensure an overall level of supply, which caters for both geography and the overall needs of individuals. That's why the government's health policy is precisely why we're pursuing both of these tracks at the same time. There will be more market incentives and more plan management at the same time. It is actually in line with international trends in this area. It is apparent from the recommendation that a minority is in favour of state assumption of responsibility for the specialist health service. However, the legislative proposal is based on continued county responsibility, in accordance with the Stortinget's treatment of St.meld. No 24 for 1996-97, Availability and professionalism. It would be alarming if the government had disregarded the fact that the Stortinget actually took a position on the county ownership of the hospital in 1997. Changes in needs, stronger user involvement, more elements of competition, policy objectives for distribution and rapid development of medical technology and methodology will require the conversion and adaptation of businesses. Owners and management must therefore have the freedom to adapt their management and management to these requirements. Initially, according to the proposal, the owner and management are relatively free to organise their activities. However, in order to ensure equality of access and equivalent provision across the country, specific regulation may be needed in some areas. As is well known, last September the Government reduced a sample to look further at forms of association for public hospitals. The committee presented its investigation in March this year. The investigation was carried out at the hearing on 16 July. The government will start work on following up the investigation against the Stortinge in the autumn. I suppose, like the majority of the Social Committee, that in such a follow-up it may be necessary to come back with proposals for changes to the law. I have noticed that the majority of the social committee is critical of converting public hospitals into limited liability companies, and I will return to the ownership structure and form of ownership when dealing with the suspension of the Sørensen Committee. Section 4-1 proposes that hospitals should continue to be approved by the Ministry after the proposal. The Ministry may provide that substantial changes to approved activities shall also be approved. In addition, a more flexible scheme than the one currently in force is provided for by the Ministry to provide for the approval of other health institutions or health services. The statement shows that there is support for the Government’s proposal for an authorisation scheme for health institutions. The majority agree that both professional, social and health policy considerations should be taken into account in the authorisation process, and that consideration should be given to the inclusion of the health institution or healthcare in the regional health plan. It is an important element of this proposal that a patient-responsible doctor and an obligation to draw up individual plans are also provided for, which is an important improvement for patients. In conclusion, let me say that this debate that some are in favour of reform and some are in favour of placation on the health care system is quite special, all the time when the government has actually presented five new health laws since it joined – a psychiatric reform, a cancer plan, a device plan, an initiative on the release of state hospitals and forms of association, and the implementation of free hospital elections and an increase in the proportion of ISF. It's reform policy!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e339	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e342	Let me first comment that I am pleased to register that the Minister of Health has registered that there is also a right track in health policy. As mentioned in my statement, the Progress Party will vote against the present bill, justified by the fact that the present bill is little forward-looking and the laws are not fit to meet the challenges that hospitals already have, and will have even more in the years to come. The bill is largely a cementation of today’s hospital organisation and structure. The bill is not at all a significant advance in relation to the current hospital law. I now allow myself to challenge the Minister of Health by asking him to point out at least three aspects of the present position that will be revolutionary and suitable to meet the challenges the hospitals will face in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e351	I have to take note that the Progress Party chooses to go against a law that adds to a regulation on a patient-responsible doctor, which provides for a clearer and clearer management function in hospitals, which imposes an obligation to draw up individual plans, and a law that in total involves the modernisation of existing legislation. I have not claimed that this is a revolution. Therefore, I do not feel that there is any right to demand that I demonstrate that it is a revolution. But I believe that in essential respects it is a clear improvement for the patient and for the management of the health system. Then it's got to be that the Progress Party and the government parties, which actually agree on a lot of things in health policy, have separated layers on the issue of the ownership of hospitals. But there is nothing new that has emerged in this matter. It's been there a long time. This was confirmed by Stortinget when we treated St.meld. No 24 for 1996-97, accessibility and professionalism, and that is also the underlying line of conflict in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e360	I don't think the Norwegian health system needs a revolution or experimentation. I think what is needed is systematic improvement, and that's what it's been put up to, both by the previous government and by the current government, and there's been a number of amendments that have improved the situation for Norwegian patients. Therefore, this law is also linked to the improvements adopted in recent years. In particular, I would like to draw up the approval system in Section 4-1. I would like to commend the Minister of Health for stressing that recognition should also involve societal considerations. My question is whether I can interpret the Minister of Health as saying that Stortinget will be given the opportunity to comment on the position of the Sørensen Committee. There is a good work done by the selection, but no democratic decision is taken in a public body, so the Storting must get it treated before the Oslo municipality drums through a share of corporate form that there is a majority against in the Stortinget, and that all organizations oppose. I just want to confirm that the Minister of Health will put an end to the implementation of the plans that have been adopted and, in addition, by the scarcely imaginable majority in the Municipality of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e369	I will confirm that the Stortinget will have the opportunity to discuss the Sørensen Committee's position, and I will add up to a quick follow-up when the consultation round is over. I aim to come to Stortinget in the fall with that question. Then the representative Eyeågen takes up a completely different matter, namely Oslo City Council's decision on the principle of AS-organising Ullevål and Aker Hospital and the state's handling of this. It is this way that until the law that Odelstinget is dealing with today comes into force with all its regulations, the Norwegian ill house needs to be managed under today's hospital law. It also concerns the issue of the approval of significant changes in the operation of existing hospitals. As a health minister, I have to deal with the laws and regulations that apply, and it is in this case Section 3 of the Hospital Act that requires that significant changes to the operation in approved hospitals also have to be approved. I have to make an assessment of the proposal that the Municipality of Oslo is making and that is not yet available. Of course, as a management, we need to make a concrete assessment of that proposal in order to decide, first of all, whether there is a significant change in the operation, which I think is a lot of talk about that, and, second, whether there is a change that can be approved under the hospital law. I cannot, here and now, advance that treatment, unless I say that it cannot be done under the applicable legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e376	As far as the last two lines are concerned, I have to say that Gunhild Eyering, unfortunately, can take it easy, because it seems that the Minister of Health – if he has legal basis at all – will comply with her wishes. But my prayer is that the Minister of Health also looks at what a so clearly majority in the selection he himself has appointed has recommended, namely not to allow magnification and government to interfere in democratic decisions in the county municipalities. So even though there are two different issues, as he quite rightly says, my sincere request will be that the Minister of Health does not use his potential right to refuse the legitimate process that goes into the municipality of Oslo. Otherwise I have to say that I think the Minister of Health made a very good and proper statement, as he usually always does. I fully agree with him that these two main features of health policy, namely market and freedom on the one hand and planning and governance on the other, are not or should be counter-polar. Nor are they in the Right Model, as we clearly want national control and control, but it should be general and not detailed. We want to adopt a separate national hospital plan to define the functional distribution. We want the Storting to have direct responsibility for the total appropriations and also want to use the so-called market, i.e. patients' needs, as a management tool. While it is true, as the Minister of Health and the majority have pointed out, that today’s law involves certain reforms – and what comes later in the context of the Patient Rights Act involves even more important reforms and improvements from a user point of view – the proposals that are being adopted today are so ‘small’ that I think they deserve to be characteristically patched. The main problem is that there are games and disclaimers between levels of responsibility, and this will continue to be the case after Odelsting's decision today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e383	What was my main point was that the overall reforms that this government has presented since it joined on 17 October 1997 must be seen in a total context. It is quite right that today's Odelstinget Act represents a continuation of existing law in essential areas. And I think that is the basis for this, because the main structure of health care should be continued. But it is also clear that, in the context of the other reforms that I referred to in my main post, we are facing a significant implementation phase of changes and improvements in health care, both in terms of resources and accessibility, in terms of organisation and in terms of legislation. In my opinion, there is reason to expect that the overall impact of these reforms will mean improvements, not least for the patients for whom the health care system is for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e390	Based on what the Right Representative said here, which I think is an interesting consideration: the Ministry has to keep its fingers away from the county council, which is what you want from the Right in turn. With regard to the effort-driven funding that has been put to others, I have a question for the Minister of Health. It has been seen that there have been significant expenditure increases in addition to what was expected in the past, and I would ask the Council of State: Is there a purely efficiency gain that lies in the input-driven financing and the costs you see related to it, or can this scheme – if it evolves too far – be cost-effective and that you get unforeseen costs related to the one that goes beyond what you would get from a different distribution between the effort-driven financing and the framework grant?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e398	I see that some of the intention to introduce input-driven funding has just been to increase the availability of healthcare and to increase treatment capacity. And that's what we've seen: the number of patients treated is increasing dramatically, and the number of breaches of the waiting list guarantee is being reduced even more dramatically. I see that as the intended effects of input-driven financing. It is not the effects of effort-driven funding alone, but I am convinced that it has its share of the credit for it. So I want to be a strong defender of the fact that that arrangement has to be continued. We have to evaluate it, and we have to make adjustments and improvements along the way when we see that it has bad results, or that the framework for it doesn't work properly on some points. And, as you know, extensive evaluation is under way. I would, however, agree with Mr Ballo that if one goes very far in the share of price financing, there will be a budgetary management problem. Everyone who wants to pull this proportion must be dealing with it. For my part, I am of the opinion that we have currently found a rental that we should leave for a time, just to gain experience with the effects. And so far I think they're predominantly positive.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e405	I feel the need to go round about this with AS at our biggest sick homes, and what consequences it can have. What worries me is whether the public is going to live in uncertainty about what the Government and the Christian People's Party are going to do in that case. I would like to remind you of §9-2, entry into force, in the law that we now have to deal with, where it says: ‘The law shall enter into force from the time the King decides. The King may decide that the individual provisions of the Law shall enter into force at different times. ‘... In other words, if the Minister of Health so wishes, Section 4-1, which is the authorisation system, may, in my view, come into force quite quickly. Then I hope that we can now get a final clarification from the Minister of Health, because I think that – apologies for the expression – there will be a little too much fog when we ask for a clear answer: Will the Minister of Health stop the development of this with limited liability companies at the two major hospitals in Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e417	I've noticed what the majority say about the scepticism of the AS model in the hospital, and let me repeat what I've said in this room before: I share that scepticism. But the real thing that Mr Eyeågen is asking me to do is take a lead on an AS model that the Municipality of Oslo has not yet completed. They have adopted a decision of principle in the City Council, in which parts of the majority have actually made it conditional on the position of the Sørensen Committee and the solutions there before taking a final position, and then have to have a case with the final formation and proposals for statutes, etc. And I believe that a responsible administration of the law, whether it is the law in force or the law that is to come, requires a case-by-case approach on the basis of a specific proposal and not a sketch, which has until now been presented by the Municipality of Oslo. It gets the representative eyegagen called ‘mist talk’, or whatever it might be. From my point of view, it is an expression that I actually have to deal specifically with a proposal when it is available, and then I have said what I have said about my more basic positions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e426	The cord shift is over. The President shall note that the time set out in the Rules of Procedure has elapsed. However, the President will propose that the meeting continue until the current map is completed – and it will be deemed to have been adopted. The speakers who are given the floor below have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e433	The centre party believes that in all the organisation of healthcare — and in this context specialist healthcare — consideration for individual patients must be the overall requirement for effectiveness. In my view, it is difficult to distinguish the individual patient’s concerns from general social considerations. That's why I think it's interesting when the Right says in clear text in the setting that they won't give social reasons for the approval of health institutions. Right-wing representative Hoegh also said that they think too many levels of government are problematic – and that's okay, democracy may not be effective, but I still think that's the best we have. The right model of the healthcare system, with State responsibility for specialist health services, is, in the opinion of the Centre Party, a system that benefits neither the patient, the districts nor the influence of the elected people, rather the opposite. It's going to get worse for chronically ill people, as input-based funding, which follows the patient directly to the hospital, will favor fast and perhaps cheap treatments instead of taking into account chronically ill patients. Perhaps the most serious danger, as I see it, is that there will be a greater distance from those who decide, at the risk of the local hospitals being laid down. Already today we notice a severe attack on the local hospitals, even though we now have a health care situation that suggests that we should get our eyes up for the benefits of the small hospitals. See for example: on the increasing number of cases of severe infectious diseases, where we need to close departments and perhaps hospitals, a varied hospital structure will be one of the best we can have. The right-hand model may be a danger to this. So with the Right Model, we're in danger of getting a weakened public health system. Possibility of formation of AS contributes to further centralisation and less scope for public control and popular governance. The most important thing is – as I said – availability of specialist healthcare services across the country. The Central Party will also stress that the Government will have to maintain tight regulation with regard to the establishment of new medical positions in order to prevent the over-establishment of doctors in key strokes, for such over-establishment would make it even more difficult to obtain doctors in the districts. The newly established Medical Distribution Committee will have a special responsibility in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e442	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e450	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e456	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposed no. 1 and 2, by Gunhild Eyering on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 3 and 4, by John I. Alvheim on behalf of the Progress Party and Right proposal No. 5, by John I. Alvheim on behalf of the Progress Party, proposal No. 6, from Annelise Hoegh on behalf of Right The President first adopts the proposal No. One, two, four. Proposal No. 1, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess whether private health professionals with an operating contract may be required to participate in the education and training of health professionals. ‘... Proposal No. 2, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, says: «The Government asks the Government to ensure that no public hospital is converted into a limited liability company until the Big thing has dealt with or expressed its opinion on the suspension of the Sørensen option. ‘... Proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party and the Right, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to base the majority proposal of the Sørensen Committee on the organisation of hospital hospitals so that hospital owners are free to choose from all the different forms of association for hospitals which the sample considers should be available. ‘... These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e526	Here is a different proposal from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law on specialist health services, etc. the following provisions shall be added: § 1-1 shall be replaced by the following:§ 1-1 Purpose of the ActThe purpose of the Act is, in particular, to: 1. counteracting disease, injury, suffering and disability; 2. ensure that patients' rights to treatment are met; 3. contribute to ensuring the quality of service provision; 4. contribute to an equivalent service provision; 5. contribute to the optimum use of resources; 6. help to adapt the provision of services to the needs of patients; 7. contribute to the provision of services being made available to the public; and 8. contribute to the promotion of public health. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e577	Right has notice that they're going to the fourth term.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e619	Here is a different proposal from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: « § 2-1 shall be replaced by the following:§ 2-1 The responsibility of the State for certain health services Member States shall ensure that persons with permanent residence or residence in the State are provided with specialist health services within and outside the institution, including: 1. Hospital services 2. medical laboratory and radiological services 3. emergency medical preparedness; and 4. Air ambulance service. The State shall also ensure that persons with permanent residence or residence in the State are offered medical emergency meal the service and ambulance service by car and, where appropriate, by boat.Services referred to in the first and second subparagraphs may be provided by the State itself or by agreement of the State with other service providers. Private and public service providers must be regarded as equivalent.The Ministry may, in accordance with regulations, impose requirements on the services covered by this Act. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e661	The Progress Party and the Right have warned that they are going against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e664	When our proposal for § 2-1 has fallen, which § 2-2 was incorporated, it is natural that we vote for § 2-2.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e671	So the Right will vote for Section 2-2, while the Progress Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e696	For a second term, there is a proposal from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Sections 2-3, second paragraph, shall be replaced by the following:The health service shall be properly organised and shall be organised in such a way as to enable individual health professionals to comply with their statutory obligations. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e711	I voted incorrectly – I voted against and voted in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e716	I also voted incorrectly – in the same way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e721	I also voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e726	When there are so many who have voted incorrectly, the President will take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e757	The Progress Party and the Right have announced that they are moving towards No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e791	There are two different proposals, proposal No. 5 by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party The proposal from the Progress Party is: ‘Law on specialist health services, etc. the following provisions shall be added: § 2-5 shall be replaced by the following:§ 2-5 Mailing list registrationCountries and health institutions shall maintain waiting lists of patients applying for and in need of health care covered by this Act. The waiting time for treatment shall not exceed the maximum time limit set for the treatment of the patient by a doctor or a health institution at the time of the first or second assessment. The period of treatment prescribed by the doctor for patients shall be legally binding on the county. ‘The proposal from the Right reads: ‘The law on specialist health services, etc. The following provisions shall be replaced by the following:Sections 2 to 5:§ 2 to 5 Member States holding a waiting list of applicants for and in need of health care as provided for by this Act:§ 2 to 5 Member States holding a waiting list 1. Health institutions maintain waiting lists of applicants applying for and requiring health care as provided for by this Act. 2. Patients registered within an individual fixed and medically justified period of time shall be provided with health assistance at a public or authorised private institution in the Kingdom or abroad. ’ The President has understood that, in the event of a fall in the proposal by the Court of Justice, the Right will provide subsidiary support for the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e854	The first paragraph is preceded by a different proposal from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: « § 2-6, first paragraph, shall be replaced by the following:In healthcare institutions covered by this Act, the patient-responsible physician or the designated health care institution shall draw up an individual plan for pasi enter with a need for long-term and coordinated services. Health institutions shall cooperate with other service providers on the plan to contribute to the overall provision of patients. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e916	To the second paragraph, there is a different proposal from the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 3-1, second paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: in each State, at least one health institution or department of such institution shall be designated with a similar obligation to patients in need of psychiatric assistance. ‘... The Progress Party has indicated its support for the Right-wing proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e952	The first paragraph is preceded by a different proposal from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 3-2, first paragraph, shall be replaced by the following:The health institution covered by this Act shall ensure that the record-keeping and information systems of the institution are sound. The patient-responsible physician shall be responsible for the patient’s record and shall decide on the information to be included in the record. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e1023	Here is a different proposal from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: « § 3-7 is replaced by the following:§ 3-7 About a patient-responsible doctorThe hospital is required to appoint a patient-responsible doctor on a case-by-case basis. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e1079	Here is a different proposal from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: « § 3-9 shall be replaced by the following:§ 3-9 Hospital ManagementThe hospital shall be organised in such a way that there is a responsible director at all levels. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e1121	The third paragraph of Section 4-1 contains two divergent proposals. That is proposal No. 5 by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on The proposal from the Progress Party is: ‘ § 4-1, third paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: In assessing recognition, the criteria for recognition shall be of a purely professional nature. The criteria for the approval of hospitals or bids shall be the same for public and private hospitals or services. ‘... The suggestion from the Right sounds: ‘Section 4-1, third paragraph, shall be replaced by the following:The assessment of whether the authorisation is to be granted may, inter alia, focus on whether professional reasons justify the recognition of the health institution or healthcare, whether the health institution or healthcare has been admitted at regional health level and whether the services to be provided are sound. ‘... The President wants to vote first on the first, second and fourth paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e1146	With regard to the third paragraph, the President will propose that the proposal from the Right be rejected first, then the proposal from the Progress Party and finally the recommendation from the Committee. – This is how it is done. The President has understood that the Progress Party and the Right are opposed to the recommendation of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e1185	The first paragraph is preceded by an aberrant proposal from the Right. The proposal reads as follows: « § 5-1 first paragraph shall be replaced by the following: Member States may conclude agreements with one or more committees on cooperation in order to perform the tasks assigned to them by this Act. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e1230	For these paragraphs, there is a dissenting proposal from the Right, which includes § 5-2, 5-3 and new 5-4. The proposal reads as follows: « § 5-2 is replaced by the following:§ 5-2 National Hospital PlanThe Swedish National Hospital Plan adopts a national hospital plan defining the distribution of rural and regional functions. The King decides more which states constitute a health region. § 5-3 is replaced by the following:§ 5-3 Regional State OfficeIn each health region, a government agency responsible for specialist health services within the region is to be established. The Regional State Office shall provide for the allocation of functions between hospitals in the region. The Ministry may lay down detailed rules on the tasks of the Regional Office of the State. § 5-4 is replaced by the following:§ 5-4 Regional Health PlansThe State Regional Office, cf. § 5-3, a regional health plan is to be drawn up by the State. The plan shall state which institutions and services are to grant under the second paragraph of Section 6-1. The Ministry may lay down detailed rules on the content and design of the regional whole planning and reporting on the implementation of the plan. The regional health plan shall be adopted by the departments concerned. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e1312	Paragraphs 1 and 3 of the first paragraph are preceded by a different proposal from the Right. The proposal reads as follows: « § 5-5, first paragraph, point (1) is replaced by the following:1. the number of new specialist medical positions within each Member State speciality which may be established by institutions and services forming part of the regional health plan, cf. Section 5-4, first paragraph. Paragraphs 5 to 5 of the third paragraph shall be replaced by the following:The Regional State Offices shall allocate the posts and the registered offices referred to in the first subparagraph. ‘... The Progress Party has notified that they are moving towards the whole paragraph. So the proposal from the Right and then over the recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e1370	For § 6-1 second paragraph and § 6-2 there is a dissenting suggestion from the Right. The proposal reads as follows: « the second paragraph of Section 6-1 shall be replaced by the following: § 5-4, is the responsibility of the State. Expenditure on private practices carried out under agreement with the Regional Office of the State shall be covered by a detailed agreement between the Private Practitioner and the State. § 6-2 is replaced by the following:§ 6-2 Contributions to the State Regional Offices Member States provide annual operating grants to partially cover the costs of the specialist health service. The grant for the division through the Regional State Offices is in accordance with the rules of the King. The State shall provide activity-dependent grants or grants for specific purposes in order to partially cover expenditure by institutions on health care under this Act.The Ministry may provide detailed rules on the calculation and payment of grants as referred to in the second subparagraph. The Ministry may request the budget, accounts and other information relating to the operation of the healthcare specialist. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e1462	Right has notice that they're going against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e1517	Paragraph 6-9, first paragraph, No. 3 is preceded by an aberrant proposal from the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘ § 6-9, first paragraph, point. 3 is replaced by the following: 3. that patients staying in long-term institutions should cover in full or in part up to 25 per cent of the cost of care when available according to the patient's financial condition. No reimbursement can be made in cash benefits provided by the patient under the Swedish Social Security Act, nor does it take funds that derive from such benefits. ‘... The party of progress has announced that they are moving towards no. 3rd@item: inlistbox Therefore, the proposal from the Right and then the setting will be discussed first.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e1538	The setting is then discussed, and first over Section 6-9, first paragraph, No. 1 and No 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e1546	§ 6-9 nr. 3 is drawn up for voting. This is where the Progress Party and the Right will notify you that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e1598	For § 7-3 first paragraph, there is a dissenting suggestion from the Right. The proposal reads as follows: « the first paragraph of Section 7-3 shall be replaced by the following: the Regional State Office shall receive and register notifications of health professionals in the health region and in the specialist health service. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e1628	There is a different proposal from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Sections 7 to 4 shall be replaced by the following:Sections 7 to 4 The obligation to provide guidance to the municipal health serviceThe person organising the specialist health service and covered by public health plans shall provide advice, guidance and information on health matters required for the performance of its tasks by law and regulation. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e1662	To Section 8-1, first paragraph, there is a different proposal from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first paragraph of Section 8-1 shall be replaced by the following:If health services covered by this Regulation are operated in a way that is contrary to the law or to the provisions adopted in accordance with it and the operation is presumed to have harmful consequences for the patient, the State Health Authority shall order the correction of the situation. If the State Health Authority considers it necessary, it may impose periodic penalty payments or fines. In special to traps, closure may be imposed. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e1844	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote. The Progress Party and the Right have warned that they are going against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e1855	The legislative decision will be sent to the Layer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27-lower.ana.ud428e1864	There is no record available.
