ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08-lower.ana.ud327e31	There is reason to believe that these matters are going relatively quickly. – This said to prevent the representatives from running so much.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08-lower.ana.ud327e43	This case concerns a new law on trading activities with used and discarded items. The legal proposal is based on the need for major changes in the trade law due to changes in social and economic conditions, as well as the desire to simplify and red tape trade legislation. The proposed amendments mean that only the rules on trade in second-hand and discarded goods remain in the 1980 Trade Act. A unanimous committee agrees with the department's view that it is appropriate to repeal the current trade law and that the rules on trade in second-hand and discarded goods are passed on in a new law. The Committee endorses the Ministry's assessments of the proposal to lift the ban on out-of-market out-of-market out-of-market out-of-market out-of-market out-of-market out-of-market out-of-market out-of-market out-of-market because competition between different types of sales may have a positive impact on price, quality and service. Furthermore, the Committee agrees with the proposal to repeal existing provisions on the trading of plazas in the Trade Act because the need for control of plazas may be covered by other legislation. There is also consensus that there is no need for a separate registration system in addition to the registration schemes applicable to traders in general. The Committee will also agree with the Ministry's proposal to abolish the conditions of trade law on a general basis. Rules should not apply to trading activities other than those of other commercial activities. The rules on trade in second-hand and discarded goods are passed on in a new law. The intention to prevent the placing on the market of stolen or illegally received articles and to facilitate the police's efforts to track down such items is in favour. There is a clear need for such rules to bring society to life throughout its activities. Police, which have control authorities and a list of stolen items, shall continue to be responsible for authorising such second-hand trading activities. The Committee is unanimous in its view of continuing the provisions of a new law, including: because it provides a better overview and facilitates accessibility. I allow myself to recommend the unanimous vote of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08-lower.ana.ud327e58	SV will not vote against the changes here, but since we are not in the committee and therefore have no opportunity to express our views, I need a few brief comments. The most important thing for us is that we feel that some of the changes in the terms of trade law proposed here give cause for concern because consumer protection is being reduced. It also says the Consumer Council in its comments, and the Ministry of Justice has also discussed it in its consultation opinions on the legislative changes. There is a lot of ongoing sales already, and we fear that this can increase with these changes, and that it can be much more difficult for a consumer to demand the sellers and to assert his rights in relation to them when removing the provisions that are in the law today. As far as I am aware, there is now also a big message about consumer policy, and I assume that we will come back to these questions then. But I needed to say this, because the purchasing pressure in general, and not least the requirements that are subsequently imposed on consumers to care for their own interests as the authorities move further and further away from their responsibility to protect them and leave it up to the individual, concerns SV. Because it is soon necessary to have at least a basic subject to go to Rema 1000 and trade and to understand the marking and to test your own interests. And we're worried about such a society. This concerns the lifting of the ban on the trading of groceries outside the point of sale. We don't go against it either, but we don't ignore the fact that this could be the last nail in the coffin of some edge shops. Because here you can put goods in, for example. shower, or you can think of other goods that you can store for a long time, and then run the prices down on these and beat the small foundation that is left for an edge shop, over the end by just selling some such goods perhaps as rarely as once a month. On the other hand, it may be beneficial for consumers, but it may be difficult for those who want to have the opportunity to trade a slightly wider range in a local store, not to talk about all of the other features that such a store can have. So we're looking at this with some concern, but we haven't found any reason to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08-lower.ana.ud327e73	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08-lower.ana.ud327e87	I don't have to be that long. The current suspension of Odelstinget takes into account some changes in maritime legislation. Among the main changes are the proposal for a new §24a of the navigability law and a minor amendment to the navigability law §24, second paragraph, which gives the supervision, i.e. Maritime Directorate and other bodies, the possibility at the shipowner's expense of bringing detained ships in such a condition that the ship can be moved. In cases where the shipowner does not wish to contribute to the necessary rectification of deficiencies or no contact with the shipowner, the Committee considers that the Maritime Directorate, on behalf of shipowners, must be able to address deficiencies while ensuring that the layout is secured as a priority property in the ship. Furthermore, the Committee agrees with an amendment to Section 137 of the Maritime Act that the master of the ship should be able to receive notices and announcements on behalf of the ship's shipowner. This would lead to savings for the public of both an economic and an administrative nature. Some low standard ships may remain in Norwegian ports and waters for a long time because they are detained by Norwegian authorities due to lack of navigability or as a result of an application for arrest. The Committee therefore concludes that notice to the master of the ship may enable the ship's requirements to be realised more quickly than has been the case so far. Furthermore, the Committee has acceded to an amendment to the Maritime Act § 97 that the person requiring the arrest or enforcement of a ship may be required to provide security for ports charges incurred in the case. The background to the proposal was that during the period 1994-1995, in some ports, foreign ships were found to remain in Norwegian ports for a very long time in connection with the enforcement and arrest of the law. In addition, the Committee has also examined and joined a few other legislative proposals. The Committee thus proposes a unanimous vote on the Odelstinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08-lower.ana.ud327e100	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 143]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08-lower.ana.ud327e108	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08-lower.ana.ud327e207	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08-lower.ana.ud327e214	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08-lower.ana.ud327e316	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08-lower.ana.ud327e323	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08-lower.ana.ud327e332	There is no record.
