ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e27	The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: Rikke Lind and André Kukkestad For Buskerud County: Frank Willy Larsen For Northern Ireland: Bears Olsen and Kari Brodevoll For the North-Trundellag County: Astri Wessel The requested alternate of the county of Rogaland, Toril Haaland Horpestad, is requested to be exempted from meeting under the leave of the representative of Øyvind Waksdal from 2 June to 6 June, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. Other alternate, Jostein Zazzera, is invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e72	Jostein Zazzera is present and will take the seat. From 7 June to 9 June, the representative of the Council of Europe, Annelise Höegh, submitted an application for leave in respect of the legal proceedings against Abdullah Öcalan in Turkey. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Anders C. Sjaastad, is hereby called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e94	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e99	I propose Aud Blattmann and Asmund Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e104	Aud Blattmann and Asmund Kristoffersen are proposed as chairmen. – Other proposals are not available, and Aud Blattmann and Asmund Kristoffersen are unanimously elected as chairpersons of today’s meeting. The representative of Terje Knudsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e109	On behalf of the representatives of Øystein Hedstrøm, Harald T. Nesvik, Vidar Kleppe, Dag Danielsen and myself, I have the pleasure of making a proposal that the aquaculture industry be treated in the same way as the livestock industry in respect of replacements following an order for destruction as a result of established group A disease.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e114	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e136	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik Council Guro Deputy State Council Laila Davaøy The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask themselves the main questions. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative of Thorbjørn Jagland.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e155	More than a year ago, the Workers' Party asked the Prime Minister here in the Questionnaire whether the Government would increase the aid to shipyards to international level. It took almost a year before something was done. In the meantime, many contracts were lost. During the review of the revised national budget last year, the Government took up its position to increase the CO2 tax paid by oil companies. The working party did not realize anything then, as one could already see that a crisis was engulfed in the oil industry. We understood even less when the revised national budget this year came without a single measure against the shipyards and the oil industry. I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether the Government is now considering supporting the proposals put forward by the Workers' Party to avert a crisis, with permits, redundancies and unemployment, in this important industry.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e164	Let me first say that full employment is a primary objective of the government's economic policy, and we have to be able to see that the greatest pessimists have failed in terms of unemployment development. In fact, at the end of May, we have an unemployment rate that is probably 3,000 lower than it was at the same time last year; almost halfway out in 1999 the unemployment forecasts of the pessimists have not turned on at all. On the other hand, we see trends in some industries, mainly in the oil industry and the shipbuilding industry. It is not right when Igland says that the government has not proposed a single measure to cancel this. First of all, we have proposed 100 million. kr to project-oriented technology development on the continental shelf. It is an action that was requested by the industry. We have announced a gradual phasing-out of the production fee on a Norwegian base – there are eight fields that currently have such a fee – and I understand from what has emerged in the media that it corresponds to what the Workers' Party is also in favour of. We have proposed setting up a €3 billion research and innovation fund, which could also benefit this industry. We have adjusted the rules of the Guarantee Institute for Export Credit, which can have a positive employment effect in these sectors as well. We are considering continuing a grant scheme for two new high-speed craft as of 2002, and if they are built in Norwegian shipyards, there will be increased employment. We have made proposals for the pre-projecting of a new marine research vessel, which can also provide employment in Norwegian shipyards. And finally, built in Norwegian shipyards, a gas-powered ferry is assumed to be a highway link in More and Romesdal. This shows that the Government has proposed several measures. However, the government parties are prepared to discuss further measures with the Labour Party, which I understand will be proposed in the Stortinget, but we must then assume a responsible inclusion of such proposals in order not to weaken the budgetary balance.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e173	The question is, is to bring this industry over a difficult phase now, over a knack, and the proposals to which the Government and the Prime Minister now referred are not suitable for that. There are quite specific things that can be done to get assignments to the industry, but there are no proposed appropriations for just such measures. I am also amazed when the Prime Minister again refers to the employment situation now, so to speak, that there is no great danger. In Verdal, where I was yesterday, there is absolutely no unemployment now. But in April next year, there could be a full stop at Aker Verdal, and then 1,100 men could go out in lay-offs and lay-offs. And there is little comfort to them in April next year to be able to say that there was full employment in May/June 1999. So I have to ask you to look a little bit longer-term on these questions now and not push all of this in front of you.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e183	It will not be more correct if Igland repeats that the Government has not proposed a single concrete measure. It is therefore a positive mistake – the government has proposed more concrete measures, and I referred to them in my first response. I think at least we have to stick to those facts. And then we're going to be willing to discuss whether it might make sense to also introduce further measures, but at least let there be no disagreement about what is scientifically proposed. With regard to the measures I have seen from the media that the Workers' Party will launch, some of them may have a positive immediate effect, but others will have no immediate effect; for example. a reduction in the CO2 tax will not immediately result in employment on the yards. In this case, it will be in the longer term. However, government parties are prepared to discuss further measures if one can then find a proper containment. As far as employment in general is concerned, I have to maintain that it is high, and clearly higher than many here in Stortinget predicted only a few months ago.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e192	There will be follow-up questions – Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e195	In view of the current situation in the shipbuilding industry and in other parts of the competitive industry, it is reasonably evident that some of the measures it claims to have proposed will not be of such a nature that they will operate in the short term and thus remedy the developments we are now seeing in the context of economic developments. How will the Government deal with proposals or decisions in the Grand Duchy relating to changes, reductions, possibly removal of the CO2 tax, and proposals to set up a sample to look at all the framework conditions, including the tax system, relating to oil and oil-related industries?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e202	Now I guess I answered about the same question from the representative, Jagland. First, I have to respond to Siv Jensen's use of words when she says the proposals that the government 'claims' it has proposed. I expect that Siv Jensen, who sits on the Finance Committee, has read the revised national budget and the accompanying proposal, and there are no claims about proposals, these are proposals. This seems to me to have emboldened this debate far too much. Some have tried to present it as if the Government had not proposed anything. It is therefore a positive mistake – the government has proposed several measures. I'm not going to repeat them now, because I've referred to them. But then I have already said that, of course, a government, and especially a minority government, must be prepared to enter into discussions with the opposition about other measures as well. But now Siv Jensen was busy with measures that should have an immediate effect, and then it is not exactly a sample that has the most immediate effect. But of course we should also consider that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e214	Jens Stoltenberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e217	My impression is that the Prime Minister is trying to disclaim the responsibility for the proposals that the Government itself has recently promoted about worsening the framework conditions for the supply industry and the oil industry, and that the Government understood the seriousness too late. As late as last fall, the government proposed 20 pst. the increase in CO2 tax, and even cabinet questions were raised on it last summer and repeated the proposal as late as before Christmas. Then it was proposed to raise the corporate tax to 79 pst. for oil companies, and it was proposed to lower the ceiling for the simplified treatment of expansion projects in the North Sea from 5 billion kroner to 3 billion kroner. All three proposals have made it more difficult to produce projects, more difficult to secure employment, especially in the supplier industry. And all three proposals were repeated and invested a lot of prestige on the part of the Government as late as last autumn. My question to the Prime Minister is: Do you recognise that it was wrong to present those proposals now? Do you recognise that it was wrong to ask cabinet questions and to get worse on the framework conditions? And does that mean that you've come to a better recognition now?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e226	No, of course, the government does not waive responsibility, neither for proposals that we have made in the past, nor for proposals that we have now promoted. I believe that the representative Stoltenberg and others are exaggerating the importance of the CO2 tax for direct employment in the Norwegian shipyard. Let me refer to a statement from the President of the National Association of Technology Companies that came over NTB yesterday. He says, ‘To remove the production fee’ – and it has actually been announced by the Government – ‘and halve the CO2 tax’ – which is what the Workers’ Party has suggested – ‘would lead to a better market for offshore yards. But such measures do not benefit the shipyards, the Chairman of the Landsforening of the Technology Companies... Should Norland." He expresses his satisfaction with what the Government has notified, including. construction of two new high-speed craft. In addition, in my first response, I have explained other measures proposed by the Government. Last year the situation was such that the increase in the CO2 tax was necessary. I don't see any reason to take self-criticism at it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e237	Per-Kristian Foss – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e240	I wanted to continue in the political-theological field of recognition. You should not expect what the Prime Minister will admit, but I expect him to at least acknowledge that he is now happy to stand here and defend that the courts will also be subject to a cyclical charge. It saved the opposition Right and the Progress Party the Prime Minister and the Government. I must also be allowed to say that it is not correct when the Prime Minister says that the immediate exemption of tail production and marginal production for field production charges built up before 1986 will not have immediate effect. It will. It will bring forward fields that are not now to be developed, where the plans for development are clear. Nor is it correct when the Prime Minister says that an exemption for parts of the CO2 charge over the entire base will not have an immediate effect. Of course, it will have an immediate impact on the economy of companies and thus their ability to expand fields that are in the frontier country. [[The President clubs.]] My question is really: Does the Prime Minister not recognise that there is something inadequate about the Government's own proposals when he himself stands here immediately after the revised national budget has been presented and acknowledges that it is not enough – and his «self» opposition parties also acknowledge it and ask for proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e251	The President will remind you that speaking time is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e254	I would have liked to appreciate it if others, other than the government, would accept what they have been doing. In fact, in the case of the CO2 tax, it was part of a deal with, among other things, Last right...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e259	A cabinet question, not a deal!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e264	... because the right opposed another fee increase – and otherwise the price of electricity is now record low. Then you can discuss the wisdom of that exchange, but it was actually the Right who was involved and coerced forward. And I think that a party that the Right would stand by something more than what they themselves voted for in the Stortinget. At least the government does. We're not running away from that responsibility. With regard to the production charge, the Government has in fact announced in the revised national budget that it should be stepped down in relation to the eight fields currently subject to such a charge. So there's no big disagreement about this, so I don't understand why the representative Foss raises it to a conflict issue. It is clear that any government, and in particular a minority government, must be willing to discuss with the opposition, further adaptations to its proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e271	Kjell Opseth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e274	I'm surprised that the Prime Minister of those degrees is trying to get into the serious problems that we see both in the offshore industry and in the yard industry. In the yard industry, if you want to have a full activity, you need an order entry of $9 billion a year. In 1998, the order intake was DKK 3.8 billion, and so far this year it is DKK 0.9 billion. It tells us what kind of situation we're at full speed into. And the only answer the Prime Minister has has is to build a gas ferry, which we have been talking about for three or four years. Yeah, it's good that it's coming. But a proposal to build some more ferries, for which we know there is a need and for which the Stortinget has been called, the Prime Minister has no idea. Fortunately, the research fund is coming, but it is now on the basis of a proposal from the Labour Party here in Stortinget. So there's not much initiative from the Government's side, to say it mildly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e282	These statements don't get right if they're repeated two and three times. Thus, in the revised national budget, the government has proposed several measures to correct the trends we see in declining employment in the shipbuilding and oil industries. I am not going to drag the Stortingen to repeat them, but there is thus a false picture by saying that the Government does not take this seriously and does not go into it. And then we'll have to discuss if one should come up with further measures. I think it's more constructive than trying to give a false picture, a picture of the government not doing anything. The government is also working on this in other ways. Even last week I was in North-West Russia. I inspected a yard where it is a collaboration with Kværner Kleven and where, for example. even now, there is talk of securing contracts for this yard in Ulsteinvik for the construction of Russian fishing trawlers. So there are things going on that could improve the situation, and the government is working on this from day to day.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e289	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e292	My question is to the Prime Minister. I must honestly admit that I was almost in the process of changing the theme in relation to what I had thought, after listening to the answer to Per-Christian Foss. At least you could be in doubt if it was right for us to bow to the cabinet question last year, when I heard how the Prime Minister chose to formulate himself. But my question is therefore Kosovo. It is a little sparkle that President Ahtisaari is now in Belgrade, although we must remind ourselves that Milosevic has conducted negotiations before. He has lied, deceived and conditioned. – My question is about reconstruction. The EU has now wanted to take a leading role by launching the so-called Stability Pact. It is important to avoid those who are going to contribute running on each other, and my question is therefore: What are the ambitions of the Prime Minister to link Norway to the work of the EU in the Balkans?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e301	Norway values the work done by the EU, and not least the efforts made by President Ahtisaari together with Russia’s Chernomyrdin and USA’s Strobe Talbott. And of course, we have expectations of this trip, Chernobyl and Ahtisaari, now make Belgrade, without us suggesting that it will necessarily be a rapid breakthrough. But of course we have a hope that it can now go towards a solution. Norway is continuously in dialogue with the EU on these issues. Even I actually had, I think, three phone calls with President Ahtisaari on these questions both before, during and after my own visit to Russia, where, of course, Kosovo was very central. So we are close to the EU's work on these issues. After all, what will then be a major challenge will be rebuilding Kosovo and other parts of Yugoslavia after a hopefully peaceful solution. There, the EU has announced that they will go in badly. Norway will also, of course, contribute as much as we can and as much as we can. The OSCE is intended to play a role in the reconstruction of civil presence, the establishment of democratic institutions, the monitoring of possible elections, etc. And as the OSCE Presidency, Norway will also be central here, we have been assured of that from the various main actors in this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e310	I have two follow-up questions. It is quite clear, as the Prime Minister says, that there is a very long time to achieve a result in Kosovo, and we are still in a very dramatic situation. NATO has been working on a policy where only air forces are being used. And my question is whether the Prime Minister will be prepared to reconsider this strategy if there is no solution within a reasonable time. Now it's like the Storting's about to break up. It has been a long time since the Government has been in the Great Britain and explained the Kosovo situation. And my second question is whether the Prime Minister will come back to Stortinget before we split up, so that we get to carefully discuss the serious challenges we are now facing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e319	As far as the last one is concerned, to take it first, it's clear that we want to get back to the Storting before the summer break. I understood Jan Petersen's question as a wish to do so, and of course we would like to do so. I agree that there may be things to explain since we were last here. With regard to NATO's strategy in relation to pushing forward a solution by Milosevic's side, there is a consensus on the strategy that NATO stands for, namely the use of air strikes. The Secretary-General of NATO has been given a standing mandate to carry out analyses of various developments, including possible ground forces, but there is no mood in NATO, nor has Norway been asked to change the strategy now. There will be a number of questions related to any combat forces on the ground that need to be answered and that are problematic. Something else is a force on the ground to monitor and maintain a peace solution.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e326	There will be follow-up questions – Erik Solheim.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e329	The task of getting a million refugees back is huge. The task of getting Serbia on a democratic trail may be the same. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister if he agrees with the ideas put forward by SV, and as the Right, among others. has supported the fact that we need a Marshall Plan-like – i.e. in terms of size, scale and strength – reconstruction plan for the former Yugoslavia, whether Norway will be at the forefront of such an idea internationally, and whether the Government will submit proposals to the Stortinget, for example. on an authorisation to grant the Government sufficient room to use funds immediately after a peace settlement, beyond summer and autumn, to release sufficient amounts from other countries, so that a massive reconstruction programme is immediately launched, including: the refugees may return.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e334	Whatever you might call it, there is at least a need for a comprehensive plan and a huge effort to rebuild the former Yugoslavia. There's no doubt about it. The Government agrees, and we have announced in international forums, among others. I did it myself at the NATO Summit in Washington, that we are prepared to participate in this. And the EU has also stated – as Jan Petersen was just about to say – that in the event they will go in badly. And that, of course, means a lot of economic. Now, in the first place, we need to focus on relieving the horrible suffering that is still taking place, primarily the refugee situation. The government has proposed appropriations here for Stortinget. We see that these are now in the process of being used up, and we will now immediately make proposals for a further allocation to this. Whether we're going to need a grant authorisation over the summer, we're going to have to evaluate it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e341	Hans J. Røsjorde – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e344	The Prime Minister mentioned that no ground forces initiative had been taken on the Norwegian side. But it could be that others take such initiatives and build ground forces for two purposes: either to deploy ground forces to get a solution, or as a result of an agreement. Then my question becomes: What does the government do to prepare any Norwegian contribution to ground forces either for the first option, which means the use of peace-building forces, or to participate in the achievement of an agreement? What preparations does the Government make to answer yes when NATO asks for such support?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e352	Such analyses are carried out by the Ministry of Defence and Defence. And we need to see our total effort in the Balkans in the context. We are inside the SFOR, and if something is going to be similar for Kosovo, i.e. some kind of KFOR, we need to see that effort in context and based on what we have resources to do. Of course, we're going to drag the Storting into that. These assessments are in progress, but it is clear that there will be quite a difference in whether there will be a ground force for fighting to drive the Serbs back, than if there will be a ground force for monitoring a peace settlement. There are, of course, two widely differing purposes, and there will also be an impact on both the scale and the nature of such strength.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e357	We go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e360	I also have a question for the Prime Minister. It is about the treatment of the government budget for next year. Last year, 12 hours after a lot of squabbling and lack of contact and negotiation – in fact, in my opinion, at least – an agreement was reached which meant that the Right Party and the Advance Party gave subsidiary support to a state budget that we did not like, because the option was worse. Now, however, and including the Prime Minister today, they are trying to impose responsibility on the Right and the Advance Party for the state budget that we said in many areas we were not satisfied with and disagreed with, but to which we gave subsidiary support. This is starting to annoy us! Can we expect the same position from the Government also in the negotiations on the revised national budget for this year, and does the Government intend to do the same for the budgetary procedure for the autumn? Has it considered that, as a result of the Government's statements, it can now be a less benevolent opposition than last year?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e375	I am fully aware of the fact that this was a subsidiary agreement on the part of the Progressive Party and the Right in relation to both the main budget last year and the revised national budget. It remains to be seen that an increase in the CO2 tax was adopted with regard to the issue that had been discussed before today, and that emerged because the opposition opposed an increase in the electricity tax, for which we thought there were very good reasons. When we see how low the electricity price is and how high the power consumption is, we can, as I said, discuss the wisdom of the exchange of charge increase that happened there. But I note that it is underlined that it was a subsidiary agreement, and that there were different parts of this budget that the opposition contributed constructively to, to which they did not like, and that was true, among other things. this fee increase. So we're not going to do any more of that than the opposition accepts.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e380	I would like to mention that the Advance Party was opposed to both an electricity charge increase and a CO2 charge. It's almost like you might want to say that you regret not going against both, when the head of government in Stortinget thinks we should take responsibility for having voted for what we were against, just to save the country for a change of government. Last year at the same time, the government asked cabinet questions to force the Advance Party to vote for something we were opposed to. And so not only the Prime Minister, but also members of the government parties, continue to say that we have to take responsibility for what we have done when we have voted in favour of something that we actually opposed. Does the Prime Minister realize what this entails for our desire and attitude to be positive to the Government, when we constantly get that kind of thing back?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e387	I am well aware of the reasons why the Progress Party and the Right voted in favour of these proposals last year, so I note that we should not exploit them more than the opposition will be involved in taking responsibility for them. I don't have more to say to that. I take note of it and will take note of it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e392	There will be follow-up questions – Per-Cristian Foss.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e395	The Prime Minister must stop saying that the Right Party and the Advance Party took a ‘exchange’ of the levy. We were against both. It is therefore not true to say that we were faced with a choice when we chose the CO2 tax rather than the electricity tax. We went against both parts, but finally we chose, instead of changing the government, to vote for a CO2 tax increase, which lasted only half a year. It's true, as the Right Leader said, that it's possible it was a wrong choice, and the longer the Prime Minister is here in the Questionnaire, I think he's able to convince anyone more about it. However, I would like to remind the Prime Minister that our fight against tax increases has also led to a more moderate wage settlement than we would otherwise have. I have even experienced representatives of the government parties standing in the Stortinget saying that a better budget was given for 1999 than would have been received with the large tax and tax increases that were in place. Finally, I would say that I believe the Prime Minister in front of the revised budget should put in a different tone. [[President clubs]] There is no obligation to agree in the revised.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e404	The President will ask that the speaking time be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e407	No, it is absolutely right that there is no obligation to contracts around the revised. The revision is also treated differently from the budget in the autumn, because it is dealt with not by block voting but by voting on the individual chapters and items in the budget. It can make it more inconspicuous, but it can also make it easier. I'll show you the treatment. I am fully aware of the reasons why these parties voted as they did last year. I'm not going to put more into it than what's now the reason for the parties. However, with regard to the electricity charge, regardless of how the Right and Advance Party voted, I would say that with the record low price we have on electricity today, and with the record high consumption we have – and the two things are probably related – I believe that last year's government proposal was not so unwise, but it is not safe that I manage to convince the representative Foss about it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e417	Siv Jensen till - follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e421	Until the last Prime Minister said, there is just one of the problems that there are different political views in these five parties about which solutions are good and sensible in terms of development. Having said that, I would add that it is not just the Prime Minister who sometimes has a form of expression that does not exactly create ground for further cooperation in the Progress Party. Other parts of the government's apparatus do the same. At the latest yesterday to Change Skreisestad, I am responsible for the entire tax policy of the Government, directly on TV. And the question is, will the Prime Minister now communicate what he himself has been saying here, to the rest of the government apparatus, so that we can avoid the form of expression in the future and thus not experience sending signals into both the Right Party and the Advance Party that do not exactly stimulate further cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e428	I would like to convey to the government apparatus the views expressed by representatives of the Advance Party and the Right – that they will not take responsibility for more than they are for. Of course, I should like to convey that more than that if it can contribute to a better atmosphere. However, I have to be allowed to make a plea of goodwill back, that we too by the Government do not have to make any claims that we are doing little or nothing to remedy a difficult situation in the oil industry and in the yard industry, which has been quite tenacious trends from the opposition in recent days, when the Government has proposed several measures in its documents to the Stortinget to remedy this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e438	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e441	I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question in this spontaneous question hour that, I think, becomes a kind of alternation between the big world and our home charging level. I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question in the follow-up to the debate on Kosovo, because there are many around that are closely related to other conflicts in the world, which seem to be a significant part of double standards out there and go as far as the position of the West and NATO is concerned. So, from the West and NATO, war acts and military actions against Serbia have been taken to secure human rights and humanitarian values in Kosovo, so that refugees can return home and end ethnic cleansing. But in other places where there are also significant abuses, there is now going to be backlashes. The government itself has contributed to this by proposing to take part of the allocation of assistance to Ethiopia and Eritrea into the State budget to help the refugees. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]] On which...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e448	Time's up. The President will ask for peace in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e453	I do not know what the question was, because the representative was not given the opportunity to come to the question, but I will still try to comment on it. I fully agree with the representative Halvorsen in what I understood was the main intention: that the crisis in Kosovo, which is serious, must not lead to the focus being lost from other areas of crisis in the world where the need is great, for example. in Africa. Once the Government has found itself able to redeploy something within the aid budget in the context of the Kosovo crisis, it is on very concrete projects where there is good cause for doing so. In Ethiopia – Eritrea, unfortunately, we have experienced a relapse in a conflict and in acts of war between these two countries which make it difficult now, at the discretion of the Government, to use the appropriations initially proposed. Therefore, we have found it reasonable to be able to redispatch from this allocation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e460	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his helpful help in fine-tuning the question. The suffering and loss of human lives in the war between Eritrea and Ethiopia are probably the same, perhaps greater than what we see now in the context of the Kosovo crisis, so that there should be any kind of reason to take a single crown to redispatch from there, I can't see. In addition, PKK’s leader Öcalan is now in the court of Ankara, and one cannot be sure that this is a fair right – on the contrary. We can fear that this trial will become a farce and end up proving that Turkey does not respect elementary human rights. What will the Government do in relation to the Turkish authorities to ensure that the issue of Kurds' rights is properly addressed that could lead to solutions, and what will the Government do in connection with the case against Öcalan?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e469	This is a topic that we regularly address with Turkish authorities. Even I brought it up in conversation with the one who is now Prime Minister in Turkey, Ecevit, when he was here as Deputy Minister of State last year. It goes on the Kurds' rights in general, and it goes on the case against Öcalan in particular. As far as the last point is concerned, we have first emphasised that Norway is in principle opposed to the death penalty, which could be a current criminal measure in this case. Secondly, we have underlined the importance that this case can also be followed by international observers in order to contribute to the fairest possible treatment possible, and we have underlined the importance of fair treatment in this matter. It's also interesting what Öcalan has now expressed in his explanation in the last few days, where he obviously asks the PKK to put his strategy into practice.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e478	There will be follow-up questions – Erik Solheim.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e481	You could get the impression that some at the back of the hall thought this was a bit of a peripheral question when big Norwegian things are on the agenda. But what this actually is about, is whether, when we go to war for democracy and human rights, we perceive this as universal principles that we are trying to crush internationally, or whether this can be seen as saying something that is used politically in a particular situation. That is why the Öcalan case and conflicts on the African continent are also incredibly important in the Kosovo crisis. My question will be: how will it now be made explicitly clear to the Turkish authorities if they now implement the Öcalan case in line with the Slánsk process in Czechoslovakia or Stalin's processes, i.e. as a far-reaching legal case, and then Öcalan executes that it is not acceptable? Will it be ensured that this has consequences in NATO, in the Council of Europe or in any other way that Turkey clearly understands that this is not acceptable to countries that are actually going to war to defend democracy and human rights?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e489	Clearly, if this were to end up as a far-reaching trial and with an execution, Norway would respond with appropriate instruments. I can't say exactly how and in which forum we want to do it, but it's clear that on that we will express a strong reaction. We have also already warned it by strongly stressing to the Turkish authorities that Norway is against the death penalty and that we expect a fair and non-parsory trial.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e494	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e497	My question also goes to the Prime Minister. 1998 was the worst year for the municipal sector throughout the 1990s, and 1999 appears to be even worse. Many municipalities are in a very difficult situation. They feel that kindergarten development has stopped, that prices are going to worst, and that the prices of school leisure arrangements mean that many people have to take their kids out of those schemes. We see that in the school sector we are facing very major challenges. We also see that this government in that area has provided for a significant shift in line with public and private schools, and we also know that there are significant challenges in the health and elderly sector. In summary, this means that many municipalities now have to cut down heavily on the provision of services. My question to the Prime Minister is: Does the Prime Minister think that this is a satisfactory situation for our citizens in many municipalities around the country?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e504	Some municipalities are struggling with a difficult economy. Other municipalities have a relatively useful economy. We record when we travel around the country, and also of the material we get in, that the local economy is very different. One of the problems in this sector is to contribute with state schemes that are as accurate as possible and that allow us to achieve the most equivalent development of the welfare supply around. I would nevertheless warn against a general black paint of the situation in Norwegian municipalities. This does not mean that we on the Government's side substantiate the seriousness and the problems some municipalities face. But there are also a good number of municipalities that have a positive development, and where tax revenue is relatively good, which helps to strengthen their economy. This I expect the Stortinget to have ample opportunity to come back to when it deals with the municipal economic proposition, as the Government has submitted. There, as is known, the Government has committed to a real growth in the total income of the municipal sector from 1999 to 2000 of 1 1⁄4 pst. That's approximately $2.5 billion. Up to 1⁄4 pst. This is for free income, for which the local government sector is very concerned. The reason why we had not come any longer in terms of free income is that very much is now bound up in the adopted health plans to which the Stortinget has joined, within psychiatry, cancer care and equipment, and the elderly care plan that the Stortinget has previously adopted. Then we'll see if other parties, including the Workers' Party, have more funds to allocate to this sector, and in the case of how they will cover it in a responsible way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e515	It's true, as the Prime Minister says, there are variations between municipalities. But then it is extra strange that the government in its municipal structure for next year does not propose a better redistribution of taxpayers and tax-weak municipalities. We have to find out that, in the long run, many municipalities have pointed out that they are in a difficult economic situation, the government does not choose to take it inwards. The government's plans for the municipal sector for the rest of this year and for the next year carry bids for continued tighter times for many municipalities. This will mean that the situation, for example: in the nursery sector, in school, etc. will not be much better with the arrangement that we now have on the table. And then we know who's losing it. There are children and young people around many municipalities. It is a step forward that the Government has now given the Workers' Party the right to comply with the old-age care plan as previously agreed by the Stortinget. But with the tight scheme presented by the Government, I am uncertain whether the municipalities are able to make use of the funds.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e524	I understand that Sylvia Brustad predicts that the Workers' Party has much more money to spend on this sector, and that is what we get back to when we deal with the municipal economic proposition. Some of these areas are beginning to appear now where the Workers' Party is forecasting an increase in expenditure. Then we expect the Workers' Party to also present realistic, responsible containment proposals. I think it's very difficult to discuss such questions without you having a complete scheme from those who criticise that there is too little money at your disposal. In the case of taxpayers and the distribution between municipalities, we see what may come from suggestions from other parties, before we can decide on it and what effects it has. But it has been a priority on the part of the Government and the Government that we will now expand primarily the elderly care sector and the health sector, and it is clearly characterised by the community economic proposition. I think that is a priority that Mr Brustad agrees with.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e531	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e534	I think we have to give the Prime Minister a little rest, so my question goes to the Minister for the Environment. The conflict between predators and the sheep/cleansing industry has increased in recent years as a result of the predatory policy pursued here on land. All four predators – bears, wolves, gloats and yervs – are in strong growth, while hunters are unable to capture the quotas allocated. Last week, Minister of Agriculture Kåre Gjønnes called for a more effective pursuit of predators, when he stated that the aim must be to have predators in common as effectively as possible. My question to the Minister for the Environment is whether she shares that view.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e543	Let me first say that there is an important and difficult case area here, Øyvind Korsberg. We are, as everyone in this room knows, obliged to combine two seemingly conflicting considerations – one is to have viable populations of all four of our large predators, and the other is to be able to use outlaws for sheep and reindeer. It has been important on the part of the Government to work to reduce the conflicts as much as possible. Therefore, the Government has greatly increased the appropriations for stock registration. There is a proposition in Stortinget that establishes a statutory right to compensation, and there has been a lot of work, both with preventive measures and with a switch to other operations where there is no other option. In addition, it has been important for the Government to put in place effective hunting where one has decided to take out pests. That's why we have last season, among other things. have lost a number of conditional killing permits, which have ensured that when damage occurs, no bureaucratic and lengthy proceedings shall be in the way of the removal of pests. It also means that the Government is prepared to get an effective hunt where there is an agreement that animals are to be taken out. I would nevertheless like to stress that the methods used to make effective hunting must be in line with both the Berne Convention and the Wildlife Act. That means that there are some restrictions on the type of hunting that can be allowed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e552	Of course, I thank the Council of State for the answer. Now I guess I didn't get an answer as to whether she shared the Minister of Agriculture's view on this. But it is true that the Minister for the Environment is aware that the problem is that we cannot achieve the set-aside quotas that have been allocated. I have also noticed that the predatory conflict is a hot topic within the state administration, and then in terms of animal ethics. The State Animal Health Authority has stated that the report of predators should receive a new treatment here in Stortinget. Will the Council assess a new treatment of the predatory problem in the light of the huge losses of domestic animals that have been in recent years and that will also be in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e559	It's been a short time since the Storting had a thorough review of the entire predatory policy and decided on the guidelines that the Government is now following. I think it would be wise to continue the work of implementing the principles of current policy. However, this does not mean that some adjustments will not be needed along the way. These include: talk about being able to discuss adjustments to the core region boundaries, where it is evident that there is an opening in the message that they should be adjusted as stocks develop. It will also be important to have good stock records, so that we ensure that the management of individual stocks is in line with the number of populations, and that as the populations increase, we move to an administration that makes it easier to take out animals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e565	Let's move on to the next main question
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e568	The Prime Minister has now been resting for several seconds. I would like to follow up on a question about Kosovo. In fact, it is four weeks tomorrow since the so-called G8 countries, which include Russia, agreed on the main features of a political solution for Kosovo. We all, I think, have a deep desire for the bombing to stop. But a jumping point remains: how can we give hundreds of thousands of Kosovar Albanians sufficient security so that they can return to their homes? There is a need for an effective international military presence to provide the necessary security guarantees. As you know, as mentioned, today visits President Ahtisaari of Finland, together with the Russian Special Envoy Chernomyrdin, Belgrade. It's the first time the kind of visit takes place. The German Minister for Foreign Affairs says today that the possibility of a breakthrough in the next few days is present. How does the Prime Minister view the possibilities of a breakthrough, a bomb stop and a clear UN mandate for further work?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e573	I share the opinion of the representative of the Bjørn Tore Godal of what is important in the future, not least to create a security of return for the refugees who have fled Kosovo and also internally in Kosovo. For my part, I attach great importance to the fact that Russia is still active in the diplomatic efforts to find a peaceful solution to the conflict. I have, as mentioned in a previous answer, had several phone calls with President Ahtisaari, and when he now finds that he wants to travel to Belgrade with Chernobyl, I expect that it is not entirely for no reason. Nevertheless, I would warn against expectations that it necessarily means an immediate breakthrough for a solution. Belgrade's signals have also come in writing that they accept the main principles of the G8 peace sketch. But this is a sketch, and there are some points that need to be clarified. This is primarily the point of what military presence will be in Kosovo after a peace settlement. It must be robust enough and effective enough to protect the people of Kosovo, and whether President Milosevic accepts it remains to be seen. But I have reason to believe that this will be a key point in the conversations that will now take place in Belgrade, and the outcome of the talks at this point I think will be quite crucial for whether or not in case when you can get a peaceful solution.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e578	I have to say I share that assessment. I assume that the Government, through the OSCE Presidency of the Government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, has an active contact line so that one can contribute to the political solution that needs to be taken into account. The international strength must be effective, but at the same time it must not be subject to such stringent requirements as to ensure that it is never put in place. I believe that the possibility of gaining such strength, where NATO countries, Russia, Ukraine and others are involved, is present, and I assume that the Government also has, as NATO country, the flexibility to enable one to respond positively to a real signal from Belgrade that one now accepts this presence. I also agree with the wish in a previous question about a statement of the situation in the Storting before the Storing splits.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e583	I agree that NATO must also show flexibility. There will be questions of a combination of the necessary firmness to provide a sustainable solution and flexibility in how the strength is organised. It is our opinion that a force to take care of a peace settlement, to be effective and robust enough, must be at the heart of it, because it is NATO that has the necessary resources and is efficient enough to make the military presence robust. However, on the basis of such assumptions, we in Norway are prepared to be flexible in terms of organisation and, let us say, overcoming the civil and military presence needed in Kosovo afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e588	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e591	My question to the Prime Minister concerns the Government's position on oil policy. I have to say that for those of us who have followed this from newspapers and the media, there is a very confusing impression, especially as regards the Government's position on the dispute over the purchase of shares in Saga Petroleum, one of the three Norwegian oil companies, at least partly owned by Norway. I record that representatives of the Government go out and characterise competing bids from Norwegian state companies – i.e. where the state itself is a party – that, quote the Minister of Industry: a good solution. And quote the same minister: then it is pointless for others to try to make a buy-in offer – this delivered the day before Elf delivered his bid. Is it the case that the government's job as owner of one of the competing companies in the bidding campaign is to characterize, or to prevent others from buying? Does the Prime Minister think that this contributes to increasing the attractiveness of Norwegian pedestal in competition with others?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e596	Of course, the government respects the rules of the game in this area, namely that Saga’s shareholders decide which offers they may accept and use for sale. We have been by the government to facilitate, and have also proposed in a proposition to the Stortinget, that Hydro may have a direct issue against Saga's shares for the purpose of buying, and this has also happened in understanding with Statoil, which, after all, owns 20 pst. of the shares in Saga, with which Hydro therefore had to have an understanding. On the part of the Government, we consider this to be a good solution, because it will also help to ensure that the values allocated to Saga, which the third Norwegian oil company until now, can remain in Norwegian hands. But we have full respect for the fact that these are the shareholders of Saga who decide for themselves, and once a competitive offer has been made, the Government will not do anything to prevent this offer. It will be Saga's shareholders who decide. Whether there will be new offers that compete with Elf's offers remains to be seen. We've arranged for a solution that we think is good, but it's Saga's shareholders in this market who decide what solution it will be.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e601	Can the Prime Minister then understand, or to ask in another way: I accept that the Government is now saying that they respect the rules of the game, but why does one of the Government's representatives go out and characterize that other companies are trying, which is in accordance with the rules of the game, as meaningless? Does the Prime Minister then realize that the rest of the world and others in Norway may be in doubt if the state council here acts as the owner, who does not like competing bids – and I understand that – while being a member of a government to make rules of play and to ensure that it becomes fair play? This creates a confusing impression, and I would like to hear if the Prime Minister agrees with Sponheim that it was pointless for others, in this case Elf, to bid?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e608	I do not know about these statements and will not go further than what I have already explained. It is fair play that another company bids on the purchase of Saga's shares. Statoil owns 20 pst today. of Saga, and if e.g. Eleven shall then be able to take over all the shares in Saga, in the case of more than 90 pst. in order to require redemption of the others. Of course, there is no necessary part of the solution, but it remains to be seen how Saga's shareholders, including Statoil, who have 20 pst, will assess this. It's entirely in the hands of the rules that other companies are submitting bids, and we're not going to rule out that there can be more than Hydros and Elfs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e613	There will be follow-up questions – Jan Petersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e617	If it turns out that Hydro is the one that gets the hit on Saga, then the state's ownership of Hydro will go down. Now I understand that the Prime Minister is more than open for the state to buy up again, and it will cost a lot of taxpayers' money. My question to the Prime Minister is, What purpose would this serve? What in all the days is the point of committing such a large amount of government money just to buy it up again?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e624	After all, the government has accepted, as indicated by the proposal on Hydro’s directed issue against Saga, that the state’s ownership of Hydro falls to approximately approximately. 43 pst., I think it is, towards the day's c. 51 pst. But we have also said in the proposition that we will continuously assess whether the state should buy up again. There has been a relatively broad consensus in Norwegian policy, at least among a majority, that it has been reasonable for the state to have had the majority share in Hydro. Even I'm not so convinced that the difference of 51 pst. and 43 pst. It's necessarily so big in terms of the daily function, but we might need some experience with that before a conclusion is drawn. Therefore, the government has found it appropriate to inform us that we will continuously consider whether to buy up again if the experience was to provide it, but we have not pre-concluded that this will happen. In case it happens, it's the relocation of wealth. The state also sells shares, for example: do so in Telenor. So I don't think it's a proper description to say that this will cost taxpayers money.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e631	Carl I. Hagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e634	Most are well aware that in the situation Statoil is in, with new board and future new group manager, the company has more than enough to get its own house and order in its own operations. My first question to the Prime Minister is: Why does the Government present the issue of Hydro's offer to the Stortinget when the Government does not present anything about how Statoil should behave in the present situation, despite the fact that both are companies in which the State has controlling interests? Why this discrimination against Stortinget by the Government? So there are quite a number of oil companies that today are of the opinion that if they do something government doesn't like, they risk being punished by not being given new licenses and new tasks. I would like the government's chief executive definitely to declare that the current government will not in any way punish or impede the work of any new foreign companies that are at Saga.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e643	To take the last one first, the government does not intend to punish foreign companies that had to live in Saga. I can also say that as far as I know, foreign companies are satisfied with Norwegian oil policy when it comes to the treatment of foreign companies. Yesterday I had a visit by the world's fourth largest oil company, Chevron, who expressed great satisfaction with the contact with the Norwegian authorities, and who for that reason also expressed interest in participating in the 16th concession round when it was announced. The government is committed to providing good treatment to non-resident oil companies, which we depend on on on the Norwegian base. As regards the treatment of Hydro and Statoil in relation to Stortinget, the Government considers that the State should possibly go below 50 pst. the ownership interest in Hydro, and the fact that Hydro may be authorised to purchase the third Norwegian oil company, is so important in principle that we will not exercise the general meeting authority here without the agreement of the Stortinget. Statoil does not seem to be facing the same kind of big decisions in principle.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e650	Jan Tore Sanner – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e653	There is little doubt that the government has managed the process around Saga in a very unfortunate way. In addition to the fact that the Minister of Industry was out there and characterised new offers as meaningless, Minister of Oil and Energy Anne Enger Lahnstein also foreshadowed the decision, after Hydro and Statoil had reached an agreement, by saying in the TV2 news that this means that these important values can remain in Norwegian hands. In other words, Saga's shareholders did not wait. The decision was already being squandered and it was a pleasure to see Hydro and Statoil agreeing, and it was thought that it would be pointless for others to make offers on Saga. Does the Prime Minister see that this can help to make Norwegian pedestal less attractive, as the Government, with the support of the Workers' Party, sends out so strong signals that Norwegian oil policy thinks Norwegian and primarily State – in other words, that there is a danger of discrimination between Norwegian and foreign companies?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e660	If two state-controlled companies come to an understanding of the Hydro offer for the purchase of shares in Saga, the Government must be allowed to have an opinion that it is positive. Saga is now primarily a Norwegian company. It has considerable resources on the Norwegian continental shelf. And being able to get a solution where this remains on Norwegian hands, the government must be allowed to express a positive opinion. But we show respect for the rules of the game. We show respect for the international company's obvious right to deliver competing offers, and we have shown that respect. One such offer has come, perhaps more will come. And our contact with foreign companies does not mean that they are dissatisfied with the handling of such questions by the Norwegian authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e665	Then the time for the oral question procedure is over, and we go over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e671	In view of the high number of questions to be answered, the President considers that he has to be informed by reference to Rule 53(3) of the Rules of Procedure. The last 3 paragraphs have determined that only one supplementary question will be given after the main question has been answered. This is considered necessary for the completion of the current map within the scheduled time of the morning meeting. Furthermore, the President will announce that there will be a number of changes in the list of questions drawn up, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative of Arvid Falch to the Prime Minister, will be raised by the representative of Steinar Bastesen. Question 3, from the representative of Thore Aksel Nistad to the Minister for Culture, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment who directs him. At the request of the Minister for the Environment, this question is moved and answered in front of question 38, to be answered by the same Council of State. The question will be raised by Mr Färber. Question 6, from the representative Jon Olav Alstad to the Minister for Culture, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Administration who will direct him. Question 8, from Mr Falch's representative to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment who directs him. At the request of the Minister for the Environment, this question is moved and answered in front of question 38, to be answered by the same Council of State. The question will be raised by the representative of Steinar Bastisen. Question 19, from the representative Jan Petter Rasmussen to the Minister of Justice, will be answered by the Minister of Health who directs him. At the request of the Minister of Health, this question is moved and answered in front of question 32, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 40, from the representative of Øystein Hedstrom to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment who directs him. Question 41, from the representative Torbjørn Andersen to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, who has been removed. In addition, Questions 14 and 15 from the representative Dag Danielsen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs were answered by the Minister for Development and Human Rights.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e700	I will ask the Prime Minister the following questions: ‘The EFTA Court has known the whole system of differentiated employer charges for illegal purposes. The majority of the scheme may be provisionally continued as transport aid. The scheme is now defined as regional policy, and the majority who assured that it was fiscal policy made a serious mistake. The whole scheme is now subject to the EU. Does the Prime Minister see these facts, and will the Government provide an overall impact assessment of the principal aspects of the judgment?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e709	The question from the representative of Storing Karin Andersen requires some clarifying words initially. Firstly, neither ESA in its decision nor the EFTA Court in its review of the decision has been aware of the entire system of differentiated employer charges. The dispute between Norway and ESA concerned whether the differentiated employer charge involves State aid under the EEA Agreement for those who pay employers’ fees at a lower rate than the maximum rate. From the Norwegian side, in line with both this and the previous government’s position, we claimed that the employer’s fee was part of the general tax system and therefore fell outside the EEA Agreement. It is in its view that the differentiated employer’s fee is State aid that ESA has received the support of the EFTA Court. What is correct is that the majority of the scheme can be continued as legal State aid, including: in accordance with the ESA guidelines on transport aid. There has never been any disagreement that the differentiated employer fee is part of regional policy. It is precisely its character of an essential, simple, business-neutral and rigorous district policy instrument that has made us consider it important to defend it. At the same time, we have seen some of these characteristics as arguments that the scheme was part of the general tax system and should therefore fall outside the EEA Agreement. It is not true that the decision of the EFTA Court implies that the scheme is subject to the EU. Both the EFTA Court and the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, are EFTA bodies. They exercise their competence independently of the corresponding bodies of the European Union, which are the European Court of Justice and the Commission. A significant difference between the EEA and the EU is that the EEA Agreement does not provide a basis for requiring the Contracting Parties to harmonise the tax rules. In the EU, the Commission may propose and the Council may adopt harmonisation provisions in the case of indirect taxes. This difference between participation in the EEA and the EU also exists in accordance with the decision of the EFTA Court. I am sorry, but I have to take note that the EFTA Court has informed ESA that the differentiated employer fee is to be regarded as State aid in relation to the EEA Agreement. This means that we cannot freely design the differentiated employer fee as we consider most appropriate. In concrete terms, we will have to exempt the differentiated charge from those industries where ESA has not accepted State aid in the form of a differentiated employer’s fee. At the same time, it follows from the ESA Decision that the scheme was approved only in 2003. Although the judgment does not have as far-reaching consequences as the questioner has assumed, it would involve a large-scale effort to provide an overall impact assessment of the principal aspects of the judgment. The principal aspects go far beyond this specific case and concern the question of the scope of State aid rules in the EEA Agreement in relation to the tax system. In this area, work in the EU has led to guidelines on the application of State aid rules in relation to direct corporate taxation. The guidelines are likely to be included in the ESA’s corresponding guidelines and, hopefully, provide clearer information on the issues of State aid and taxation. Finally, in the short term, we need to focus on the concrete economic and legal consequences of the judgment. The government will come back to this when it proposes rules adapted to the judgment. The Government will take action to ensure that the overall regional policy effort is not weakened as a result of the loss of the EFTA Court.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e730	I thank you for your answer. I understand that the Government is still trying to minimize the rather serious changes to this system that the EFTA Court has decided. ESA has received full support and rejected Norway’s justification, that the employer’s fee is part of the Norwegian tax system and thus outside the EEA. Within the EEA, the EU governs and the Government follows. Therefore, I believe it would have been right that the Government had come to Stortinget as quickly as possible with a case about the principal aspects of the consequences of the verdict that has been dropped. I could also imagine asking the Prime Minister how the Government has planned to deal with the deadline to which he was allowed to refer in his reply, and whether we can expect an ever-stretching down of this system until that date.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e737	The government regrets, as I stated in my first answer, the decision of the EFTA Court, but we must of course bow to it, because it is these rules of the game that we are subject to. Nevertheless – the matter is big, but we should not make it bigger than it is. I have to remind you that at least 95 pst. the system of differentiated employer charges could also be maintained following the decision of the EFTA Court. So the most important part of the scheme can be continued. However, this judgment will affect some industries and enterprises, and there the Government is prepared to introduce other measures that can ensure that overall regional policy efforts are not weakened. As I explained, there is ongoing work in the EU that is also likely to be incorporated into ESA in relation to the relationship between tax and regional policy issues. This is so much work that it will not be possible for the Government to come here to Stortingen before the summer with an analysis of it, but we will do so as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e747	This question, from the representative of Arvid Falch to the Prime Minister, will be raised by the representative of Steinar Bastesen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e750	I have a question for the Prime Minister: ‘In Question Time on 3 March 1999, the Prime Minister promised to deal with a case involving fishermen under 18 years of age. The problem for this group is that the Vergemålsgesetz sets limits on who can register in the Entity Register and the Business Register. The Prime Minister said he would contact the departments concerned: the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of Justice. Has the Prime Minister done anything about the matter, and what has been done in that case?"
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e759	After contacting the departments concerned, I can state the following: Act of 22 April 1927, Vergemålsgesetz, § 2 states that an unauthorised person, as a general rule, cannot have his own means or commit himself to legal proceedings. In principle, it will be the undertaker acting on behalf of the unauthorised person in property matters, as is also apparent in Section 38 of the Vergemålsgesetz. The Entity Register Act of 3 June 1994 and the Business Register Act of 21 June 1985 contain no clear rules on the age limit for registration in the Entity Register or Business Register. A fisherman under the age of 18 who intends to set up a business may do so by giving his consent and can then be registered on behalf of the minor in the Register of Entities and/or the Register of Companies. In cases where the relevant registers do not approve such registration because the parents have already been registered themselves, it may be appropriate to appoint an auxiliary for the minor in accordance with Section 16 of the Vergemålsgesetz. This provision allows for the appointment of an auxiliary for the minor where the obligation cannot safeguard the interests of the minor in certain cases. It will be the head office of the municipality of residence that appoints auxiliary workers, and the minor and the spouse may refer to them, according to Section 11 of the Act. At my discretion, the Vergemålslaw provides a practical solution to how the registration issue can be resolved in relation to a minor.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e770	I thank the Prime Minister for the answer, which I am not satisfied with. On the contrary – I was more satisfied with the first answer he gave in the oral question procedure. Then he was going to sort things out. It is not as easy as to leave the registration to the father or the forger when a youth of 16 years, who is on page B of the fishing crew, is allowed to fish their allocated maximum quota, because if the danger is registered as a fisherman to fish that quota, the danger is not allowed to fish its quota. This is the legislation of the fisheries legislation. So the boy simply can't use the father as his guardian. Nor can he use another fisherman as a guardian, for if the fisherman has a vessel quota, he is not allowed to fish his vessel quota if the boy fishes his maximum quota. It must be possible to change the Vergemålsgesetz and to give it a supplement, to grant a derogation, so that fishermen on page B are allowed to be registered in the register and are allowed to pay VAT from 16-18 years. It must be possible to adapt the Vergemålsgesetz to the Fisheries Act.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e783	I'm sorry if the representative Bastesen is not satisfied. As I said in my first answer, we are aware that in some cases the parents will not be able to act as a guardian here because they themselves are registered in the Entity Register or Business Register. But, as I said in my first answer, in such cases, the minor can be appointed as a helper – there is a basis in Section 16 of the Vergemålsgesetz, and in that case these minors will also be able to carry out this business and fishing activity. So at my discretion, the law today provides the homes that are needed to find a practical solution to this question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e790	Question 3 will be answered later.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e796	I have this question for the Minister of Culture: ‘The multilingual library is the library of competence in library services for linguistic minorities. [[DFB]] Accessibility and provision of library services play an important role in the inclusion of Norwegian society. The DFB has had a strong increase in the level of activity, and with 6 000 refugees from Kosovo, the need will increase this year. The economic situation was precarious already in 1998. How does the Council of State think that the DFB can maintain the operations needed to provide services to more and more refugees?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e805	The State v/ Statens Bibliothekvervaltung has concluded a contract with the Municipality of Oslo v/Deichmanan Library for the purchase of library services for immigrants and refugees. The service includes long-term loans, i.e.: single and book-deposit loans, books and other media in immigrant languages, and information and competence transfer to municipalities outside Oslo. The collection, the multilingual library, covered approx. 154 000 volumes in 37 languages, of which approximately 61 000 volumes for children and young people. The library service is state and municipally funded, and in 1998 the State grant share was 73 pst. The State contribution for 1999 is NOK 2 965 000. The measure has been delegated to the State Library Authority, which in its budget application for 2000 has proposed increased resources for that purpose. With regard to the specific library offer to Kosovo Albanian refugees, the Ministry of Culture received on 28 May this year a letter from the State Library Inspectorate in addition to the draft budget asking for an increase of DKK 335000 for the year 2000 as a special boost to strengthen this offer. The background to this letter is an enquiry from the Municipality of Oslo v/Deichmanan Library on an additional appropriation to cover increased expenditure related to expected increased lending and guidance activities due to the receipt of 6,000 Kosovar refugees to Norway in 1999. I am aware that good library offers are an important element of the everyday lives of refugees, because they can meet both locals and locals in the library, and because they can access information about their home country and books in their native language. For children and young people in particular, literature in their own language is important. However, the need for government funding for the multilingual library in 2000 – including the need generated by the refugees from Kosovo – is a budgetary matter that I cannot comment on at this stage.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e818	I thank you for your answer. This shows that we agree on the importance of the offer for linguistic minorities. Previous reports have established that the public libraries are the public cultural service that has succeeded best in reaching refugees and immigrants. Often it turns out that the library is the place where the residents of an asylum reception visit only in leisure time in the community. At a time when everything is unsafe, a book in its own native language will represent something safe, not to mention how valuable it is for parents to be able to read a book for their children. State aid to DFB has remained still since 1994, and the need has increased at the same time. Already last year, the library called for warning. In the situation we now get, with 6,000 new refugees from Kosovo, we know that the need will increase very much. And then my question is, how does the Minister of Culture see that this important job can be done without the library getting the necessary extra allocations this year?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e825	As the representative Valle himself pointed out, we agree on the importance of this offer to linguistic minorities, and perhaps especially in a situation where we have the refugee influx from Kosovo that we have today, it is very important that we can make an offer on the mother tongue. The representative stressed how important it is for parents to be able to read books for the children in their mother tongue, and that is very important. With regard to the size of the State grant, it is a budgetary matter. I can't comment on it any more. But when the situation is new, as we have had so many extra refugees, it is clear that I will take that and my understanding of the importance of such an offer into the further budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e835	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Council of State Anne Enger Lahnstein: ‘The ceiling for aid for the construction of local and regional cultural houses has not been adjusted. This can be illustrated by the fact that the maximum yield for regional cultural buildings is 5 million. krona, but it may not exceed 33 pst. of the construction costs. It is likely long since the Minister of Culture received applications for the approval of a 15 million house. krones. Will the Council consider increasing the maximum contribution to the construction of regional cultural houses?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e844	The Ministry of Culture is aware of and has addressed the problem of the long-term price adjustment of upper subsidy frameworks for local and regional cultural buildings. For local cultural buildings, the upper grant framework in most of the country is up to 1 million. kr. In the Nordic countries and parts of the Northern Trøndelag, i.e. Namdalen is the grant envelope up to 1.6 million. kr, and in Troms and Finnmark up to 2 mill. kr. For regional cultural buildings, the subsidy ceiling is up to 5 million. kr is equal to the whole country. For regional constructions, the upper framework has been established since the introduction of the scheme in 1989. The overall grant framework for local cultural buildings has not been regulated since 1984. The grant rates for both local and regional construction are up to one third of approved construction costs in most of the country, and up to 50 pst. in the northernmost counties. For applications relating to smaller local cultural buildings or to the conversion of existing houses, maximum rates of one third or half of the approved costs are often achieved. For larger local cultural buildings and for regional buildings, the government share is often significantly lower than the maximum rates. The budget is on the line. 320 item 60, Local and regional cultural buildings, in 1999 was 36, 312 million. kr. The total approved application amount from the county councils is 177.5 million. kr. In 1999, it will be distributed 26.1 million. kr for local cultural buildings and approx. 10.2 million. kr for regional construction. In the case of an increase in the State grant framework, the pressure on the scheme must also be included in the assessment. Increased frameworks for individual houses without a corresponding increase in the number of posts will necessarily result in fewer applications being met and further increases in waiting time, which is considered to be not desirable. In this situation, the Ministry of Culture has chosen to differentiate the framework within local cultural buildings. From 2000 onwards, the upper frame will be raised from 1 million. NOK to SEK 1.6 million. kr for local cultural buildings which have a large surrounding area and which are intended to operate for a municipality or part of a larger municipality. It is assumed that the application fulfils a number of conditions: the plans are subject to prior approval in the ministry. Architectural quality has to be demonstrated, cultural construction has a wide range of activities, and it will reach many users. The county council is to be included on advice on which houses are included in this category. For the northern counties, which already have an upper frame of 1,6 or 2 million. kr, this does not entail any change. No changes are currently being made to the framework for regional cultural buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e863	I thank the Minister of Culture for the answer and am very pleased that she will raise the framework for local cultural buildings. It is positive that the central government has shown the will and ability to increase the path to cultural building after the strong cut-off of workers' party governments. The regional cultural house also has, with its special character, a very important function. Studies show that culture is one of the most important criteria in the choice of housing. Thus, cultural activities become an important regional policy tool. Stats can't increase frame at this time. I still hope that in the long term she will consider doing so. A municipality that wants to build a regional cultural house usually has to bear the full cost, but takes an important lift for an entire region. I would like to know how the Council of State considers cultural houses as a regional policy tool and what plans the department has for regional cultural activities in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e872	If I were to take the challenge and say what I mean about cultural and district policies, it would probably take a little more than one minute. Let me just underline the great importance of the cultural offer, also in terms of the choice of residence. That's what I'm trying to figure out on every occasion, so that culture can be cross-sectoral and permeate our whole thinking about what kind of society we really want. It is right that we have tried to raise the post office for local cultural buildings, but we have not come very far. The change that I have now pointed to depends on the total allocation, but it's a step in the right direction. Otherwise, in the context of the revised national budget, I would like to point out the effort that is being made in the municipal meeting places, and I hope that the Stortinget will end by saying yes to a grant for this, and that in the course of the millennial shift we are also trying to get to a system where we can give some support to the millennials of the counties, even though it will not be as extensive as you might have hoped.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e884	This question, from the representative Jon Olav Alstad to the Minister for Culture, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Administration who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e887	I have understood that I will ask the Minister of Labour and Administration the following questions: «The Member State's advertising policy has been under pressure and is constantly being challenged by advertisers. What will the Council of State do to ensure that laws and regulations are observed in this area?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e896	Public advertising in the daily press is regulated by guidelines adopted at kgl. Resolution of 18 May 1979. The guidelines regulate several aspects of government advertising, including the question raised by the representative Alstad, which newspapers state agencies can use when advertising job vacancies and informing the public about laws and administrative measures. The Ministry of Labour and Administration is responsible for the management of these guidelines and has delegated the task to the State Information Service. Changes in these guidelines have been considered several times, including: of the so-called Viksveen Committee in their NOU 1992:37, State Advertising Policy, and also by State Consultant in their report on State Press Support 1998. The Ministry of Culture has recently reduced a sample to assess the economic conditions of the press, including government advertising. But let's be clear that it per cent. Today, the 1979 guidelines apply in this area. It is important to note that the Ministry of Labour and Administration in this matter does not have a direct authority of instruction in relation to departments of other departments with regard to the question of the measures to be taken in order to enable the departments to comply with these guidelines. It is the individual Council of State and departments that can instruct their offices to comply with these guidelines. In order to remind the ministries of this task, the State Information Service has repeatedly, and at the latest by letter to the Departments in June 1998, recalled the guidelines in question and requested that the underlying agencies be briefed. The guidelines are now also electronically available on the SI website. Despite this dissemination of knowledge about the guidelines, the Ministry of Labour and Administration receives some complaints from newspapers who believe that they do not receive the government ads they require in accordance with the guidelines. This gives the opportunity to clarify the guidelines to the departments, departments and newspapers concerned. Since there are still some problems in getting the agencies to follow the guidelines, the Ministry of Labour and Administration will again ask the State Information Service to remind the departments of the current guidelines and ask them to instruct the agencies.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e915	I thank you for your answer. I know these reminders work, so it's good that the Minister of Labour and Administration will follow up this way. It sometimes strikes me when it comes to the debate on advertising policy, that there is a certain need to remind us of the objective of that kgl. the resolution adopted. The goal is to a large extent three-thirds. First, it is to ensure that each individual citizen and activity has real access to information about what the public is doing. It is, on the other hand, to ensure that each individual incorporates information about their rights, obligations and opportunities. And thirdly, it is to ensure equal and universal access to participate actively in the democratic process. So our advertising policy is democratically justified, not press policy. It's not going to hide that there's constantly going to be recordings, also to us, that show that it's kgl. The resolution adopted is not fully followed, but it is clear that the situation has improved since the last time we discussed it. It therefore appears useful to clarify the legislation. But a number of instances have, among other things, in writing. - (PT) The press said that it is actively choosing to ignore the resolution adopted, and that is not a sustainable situation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e924	At least I can agree with the representative that it is better than it has been in the past. To the extent that someone has actively gone out and said that they will not follow the advertising policy, we have immediately grasped it, and they will receive direct feedback that they will follow the applicable legislation. Otherwise, I can also promise, as I said instead, that we will contact the State Information Service and ask them to contact all the departments again.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e935	Then I will ask the Minister for Culture the following questions: ‘Due to the cut in press support, the economy is under pressure in several newspapers. Does the Council of State have an overview of current policies for the newspapers?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e944	: The Ministry of Culture carries out an ongoing evaluation of the economy in the newspapers through the Staten media administration. The state media administration has recently reported on the economic development of the daily press in 1998. The report shows that in 1998, newspapers receiving press support had a total deficit before aid of about 10 %. 155 million. kr. This is an increase of 3 million. 1997 kr. The figures show that, as in the past, there is a particular point. The two newspapers and the five nationally distributed opinion papers that report significant deficits and need press support to survive. However, no newspapers have been dropped because of the cuts in the press support. The objectives of the Government’s press policy, as expressed in the 1999 budget proposal, are: ‘Maintain the basis for publishing newspapers’ and ‘Maintain the basis for obtaining alternatives to the leading daily newspapers locally and nationally’. These objectives are established by the Government and have led to the allocation of production grants to daily newspapers for 1999. I believe that today's press policy is well on the way to meeting the objectives we have set ourselves. At the same time, it is clear that budgetary cuts in the last two years, as well as other changes in the framework conditions of the press, have led to the need to re-assess the objectives and instruments of the press policy. The government therefore appointed on 16 April this year a public body, led by Hallvard Bakke, to review the public instruments for the press. In order to avoid newspaper deaths, it is necessary to maintain as stable a framework as possible for the period prior to the investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e957	I thank you for your answer. The Council of State referred to the deficit last year for newspapers receiving press support, which is, to a large extent, a small relevant measure of the situation of some newspapers, especially those which are now the hardest hit. The Council of State also stated that no newspapers have been included, and that today’s press policy is therefore currently pursuing the policy objectives of the press. I'm not going to go into any long polemics about it, although it might be tempting, we're going to postpone until Friday. This is also the case with the Council of State saying that she would assess the press policy objectives, which are a little different from what I saw last Friday. What I want to ask is what the situation is for some of the newspapers that are the most vulnerable per. Today — not the situation for the newspapers in general, but for those who are at risk, who have worn out for years and who are now struggling very hard because of the policy that has been in place in recent years. Is it possible to allow them to continue until we have a new press policy?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e966	To the last question, I would like to say that we have the press support systems, which are relatively general, and I find no room for initiating extra measures relating to individual newspapers, as one could interpret the questions of Alstad. I am aware that this is a difficult situation. That's also the background that we've reduced this sample. There is uncertainty in many areas about the framework conditions for the newspapers – we have, of course, a discussion about VAT, we have the advertising policy, which was mentioned here, the conversion of postage and, therefore, the conversion of press support. I also want to point out that the ownership structures change, and that we get alternative media. So we have great expectations that the selection that Hallvard Bakke leads – and that I am very pleased that he said yes to – will come up with measures and instruments that we can use to maintain what I will add up to – will continue to be the objectives of the press support, which is democratically justified.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e973	Question 8 will be answered later.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e979	I have allowed myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs: «Once again, there has been a model competition with participants up to 12 years. One of the winners was 13 years old. Will the State Council assess the lower age limit for the use of adult models in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e988	In increasingly new areas, we see commercial forces entering, and children are increasingly a target group. Children are made “adults in miniature” and children have to deal with issues for which they should have been saved. The exposure of advertising and media to body-fixed programmes and lifestyle advertising, where body culture is an essential element, could directly and indirectly affect the body ideals of children and young people. The unfortunate results of body fixation are seen in all age groups, but it is worrying when the ideals for adult body become ideals for children and young people who are physically under development. In particular, it is of concern when children are equipped as adults and used as a body lateral. It is primarily the responsibility of the parents to consent to children being used or set up as models. Parents have to assess whether this affects their child’s health or schooling. The unhealthy outcomes of the use of children in advertising will also be part of the assessments that parents have to make when assessing whether children are to be used as models. The industry itself has a great responsibility. I've recorded that some people from the industry are taking a break from using such young girls. It's positive. We need that kind of commitment. Model competitions are not regulated by their own legislation, but if model activities are of a work nature, the rules of the Working Environment Act on work carried out by children and young people will apply. The challenges in the legal field lie not least in the changes that follow in the wake of internationalisation. At the same time, it is important to comply with the Norwegian provisions, for example: in the Broadcasting Act, it will be important to work towards European harmonisation of legislation at the highest possible level. In a few years' time, technological developments can significantly increase the European television offer to Norwegian children and young people. There is therefore a need for common European provisions in this area. There is also a need for a more stringent international binding law in the case of advertising where children are used as eye-catchers. In Norway, the Marketing Act provides protection against advertising which is unfair to consumers or which is misleading. The Marketing Act shall also provide for caution to children and young people when the advertising is designed and in relation to the participation of children and young people in advertising. With effect from 1997, the Marketing Act added that commercial activities should not be conducted contrary to good marketing practice. This provision includes, inter alia: introduced to protect children from the exploitation of their lack of experience. Since children are considered to be more likely to affect than adults, more stringent requirements are in practice imposed on caution when marketing that is directed at children or that have a design that may affect that group. When the Marketing Act was reviewed in 1993-94, it was assessed whether a person should include specific provisions in the Advertising Act as directed against children. At the time, it was found that this would be unnecessary and that the concept of ‘good marketing practice’ would be sufficient. This development naturally re-assess the need to introduce a special rule into the law on advertising aimed at children and the use of children in advertising. I come back to this question in the big news about consumer policy, which I will present to Stortinget in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1011	I thank you for your answer. I think it was very interesting in the Council's answer. While it was in 1968, it was 8 pst. the difference in weight between an average woman and a photo model is the difference in day 23 pst. When little girls down to eleven years are made up like adult ladies, it's because they have the right, nail-thin bodies, without stomach, hips or thighs. A recent presentation of the season's clothes in her fashion paper looked more like a report about anorexia. In the United States, we know that the models operate away the lower ribs. It is this kind of monster-like woman that is pictured for today's teenage girls. Eating disorders are now the most common cause of death in young women. Others are ruined for life, and never get a natural relationship with food. I think it is positive that the Council of State will look at advertising aimed at children in the coming Consumer Communication. But I want to ask her again if she wants to look at this with an age limit, and then I am talking about models used on the catwalk in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1022	I agree with the problem raised by the representative Nybakk. It's a development that none of us like. Having an age limit for those who work actively within the model profession – if I understand the questioner correctly – is a possibility that I want to look at. But to ban young girls from participating in competitions, I may feel like I'm going too far. Here, parents must be strongly involved. Clearly, we can influence parents and children to healthy habits. I also want through this answer to send a challenge, among other things. to the editor of Her, who has had a strong view in this area, that her point of view should actually match the pictures she prints in her magazine, in relation to what female neide we have. To challenge those who work in the sector, I think it's important. At the same time, I'm going to promise to assess whether it's the way to go with those who work actively within the model profession.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1034	I will ask the Minister for Children and Family Affairs the following questions: ‘A study carried out by NOVA for the Ministry of Children and the Family shows that if you stand by the choices you thought you would make when introducing the cash support, the use of the Daymother will increase from 22 pst. to 37 pst. Figures from the Tax Directorate show that in March 1998 9 273 day-olds were registered, and in March 1999 the figure had fallen to 6,280. This is worrying. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the cash support is not used for ‘black’ work?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1043	One might think about the use of a day's mother, but it's actually not forbidden. We should be careful to formulate ourselves so that we stamp an entire group to do black work, as we have seen in the cash support debate. Black work is outlawed, and various proposals have been adopted and put in place in recent years for day-to-day mothers to pay taxes on income. In 1990 certain legislative changes were made to make it more attractive for day-olds to be registered. The regulatory framework was simplified, including: it is now possible to deduct costs of food and wear in the home. Those who had a day mother or an intern also did not have to pay an employer's fee. It also provides an information booklet on babysitting. The rules for getting parental benefits were changed last year, so that only documented child passport and care expenses are deducted. In addition, the deduction of these documented expenditures was increased from this year onwards, making it more profitable with 'white' schemes. Many people who have high kindergarten prices to pay, appreciate the increase in the deduction. When it comes to the change in the number of registered day-olds, we will, in dialogue with the Tax Directorate, look at the causes. In the investigation referred to by the representative, Bekkemel Orheim, there are two issues that it is important to be aware of. For the first, these numbers include both those who had planned to let the children be fit by the day-mother in full time, and those who had plans to have the day-mother in combination with other schemes. These combinations also apply to those who had plans to have kindergarten space in addition to the daytime. Second, these numbers only apply to 1-year-olds. We also have to bear in mind that the investigation refers to what the parent had planned to do before the cash support was introduced, and we should therefore be careful to draw for bountiful endings what one actually does. The new parental inquiry has just been completed by the Central Statistical Office. When the report is published in October, it will provide us with valuable knowledge of, among other things. what kind of care children have actually seen. Once the new study from the Statistical Centre has been analysed, we will have a better basis for assessing whether it is appropriate to initiate measures to register day-olds.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1060	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. But this is not about us stamping an entire group to do black work. What this is about is the situation of the children. It is quite obvious that when a family instead of paying NOK 3 500 for kindergarten expenses per person. a month may receive support from the State covering expenditure on the day-old’s mother, it will stimulate increased day-old use. Figures from the Tax Directorate show that the number of registered day-olds has dropped over the last year. I want to ask the council if she sees no danger of blooming unregistered day-olds. Of course, a lot of people are doing it in a serious and real way, but what about those who don't? It's actually examples that one day mother has as many as seven children in a three-room apartment, and gets $3,500 for each child. It becomes a very useful income. But what kind of quality do these children get on their day, and what kind of opportunities do they get for outdoor activities and pedagogical care? Finally, I would like to say that I am not so concerned about the lack of income for the state fund, but for these children.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1076	The examples taken by the representative, Bekkemelm Orheim, are examples that we have always had, and it has very little cash support to do that one has seven children in an apartment. I have heard about such cases, and that is one of the reasons why, in so far as I am independent of the cash support debate, I will check whether a register of day-olds is desirable. We've made some changes, which I did the right thing for in my previous answer, which will make it easier and more profitable to work evenly. I believe that one of the reasons we've had fewer registered day-olds is that we've also had more kindergartens, and that some of those who have used day-olds have gone over to kindergartens. The figures with which the representative operates are those collected either during the start-up phase or before the introduction of the cash support. I think that after the cash support has been introduced, a few more day-olds will be used. But we want to look at these issues and what we can do in relation to the tax rate, as I say, to get better material to go out with than what we have, at least until today. And then we'll see what we can do with that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1087	The president would remind us that we have a lot of questions today, so we're trying to keep speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1093	I will ask the Minister for Children and Family Affairs the following questions: ‘In connection with the introduction of the cash support, we expressed our concern that children with special needs would opt out of their nursery. At the kindergarten conference of Norwegian Teachers' Teams after Easter, the issue was raised, and there was great concern for this group among kindergarten staff. This was also written by Norwegian Preschool Teacher's Magazine No. 10/99. Does the Council of State see this as a problem, and what measures will she take to ensure that this group of children is provided with safe and effective care?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1102	The challenges related to the question posed by the representative, Bekkemel Orheim, were discussed in the proposal on cash support. In the chapter on kindergarten's role for children with special needs, among others: the views of the hearing bodies in relation to these children, mentioned above. In the proposal, the Government stated that the freedom of choice should apply to all families, including the families who have children with special needs. We also stressed the possibility to choose a combination of kindergarten and cash support. I think such a combination might fit too many, even for families who have children with special needs. The cash support scheme shall be evaluated by the Research Council. Their mission includes: stressed the need for evaluation to include the way in which cash support works for children with specific needs. If this evaluation were to show that these children do not get the care and stimulation they need, or that the number of children with special needs in kindergartens would fall sharply, we need to consider, of course, what measures and possible changes we need to take. I would like to consider these questions as the results of the evaluation are available. At present some concerns have been expressed, but until now we in the department have not received any specific information that the children are talking about have ended up in kindergartens. I have the confidence in parents that they can decide what is best for their children. I also hope that parents listen to the advice they receive, for example. from health centres or kindergartens. I also hope that child protection will continue to cooperate with parents on good solutions for the benefit of children, as they did before the introduction of cash support.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1115	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. First, I would like to say that there are concrete examples that this situation has arisen, and it is enough to refer to the essay in Norwegian Preschool Teacher's Paper No. 10/99. I also accept the political choice that the Government has made when they have given priority to its system, but I do not think it is acceptable that a group of children who have difficulty enough initially should not get a good enough offer. I am concerned that these children will receive safe and good care. I also expect the Minister for Children and Family Affairs to agree with me on the importance of kindergartens in the work of child protection for the most vulnerable children and their families. There is no doubt about the importance of kindergartens when it comes to detecting care failures and introducing measures, which are specifically mentioned in the Child Protection Act. Unfortunately, there are several examples around the country of the fact that the parents of disadvantaged children withdraw the children from kindergartens and want cash support, and it will take at least one year between the coercive decision being ready for these children to be placed in a kindergarten. Finally, we have faith in the parents, but it's not always that all parents make the right choices for their children.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1126	In the department, we're not familiar with any more cases around the country. I have read what was written in the Norwegian preschool teacher's journal to which the representative referred. We also know that many of those who work in kindergarten have a very strong view of the cash support and are good at marketing any unfortunate consequences of it. What is important to me is that the protection of children has not changed working conditions after the introduction of the cash support. The protection of children shall be an active participant and shall provide these children with good growth conditions and shall also facilitate the arrangements best suited for the children. I am quite sure that child protection, in cooperation with parents, should be able to find good solutions. If we have to change the criteria to make child protection easier to intervene, yes, I'm willing to enter into such a dialogue. But one doesn't come up with a change from a two-source example. Here we need to know whether this is a major problem, and we will get to grips with that when the research report comes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1136	I will ask the Minister for Children and Family Affairs the following questions: ‘The Council of State has said that in the age group older than 3 years they have full childcare coverage. How many children under the age of 3 are on the waiting list to be accommodated in kindergarten, and how has the Council of State planned to meet the needs of these families' kindergartens by the year 2000?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1145	It is not right that I have said that we have full child care coverage for children over three years of age. Where the representative has heard or read it, I would like to think of being referred to, because I have never said that. For children over three years old, there are a few thousand missing places before one has full needs coverage. This suggests that in a short time we can achieve the intention of full needs coverage for this group of children. The Ministry of Children and Family does not use one-sided waiting lists as a measure of how many new places are needed before we have full needs coverage. The waiting lists that the municipalities have are uncertain about the real demand for childcare facilities. On these waiting lists are also children who have kindergarten, because parents in real life want space for the child in another kindergarten. However, when I say that we are approaching the goal of full needs coverage, it is based on the fact that more and more municipalities, approx. one third after Aplan Viak, reports full coverage or overcapacity, and that very many municipalities have already reached or are approaching this target. It does not mean that I am not aware that the need is still greater than the supply in many Norwegian municipalities. For children under three years of age, the largest out-of-the-box demand is. I understand that municipalities are uncertain about how the introduction of cash support will affect the demand for childcare facilities for this age group. Asplan Viak, Trondheim, therefore, was commissioned by the Ministry of Children and Family to evaluate how the cash support was applied to the childcare facility in 40 Norwegian municipalities. Feedback from the nursery administration in these municipalities was generally seen as being too early to say what concrete effects the cash support has on the need for nursery places. About 30 pst. for children under three years of age, while for children over three years of age, there was a reduced demand for children under three years of age or no change. This analysis will show you in particular: that after the introduction of the cash support, it may be difficult to determine what full child care coverage will really be in the individual municipality. The concreteisation of the need and definition of full needs coverage varies by several tens of percent from municipality to municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1156	It could be interesting to make this a debate on what full needs coverage is. I'm not going to go into that, but I expect that when the government says they want full needs coverage in 2000, they know what's going on. What you're not using here is a waiting list, because there's a lot of uncertainties. But what you know is that there are a couple of thousands of places missing from the children who are over three years old. Then it surprises me that you don't know how many places there are for them under three years. I have not received an answer to that question. The harvest budget is going to be incredibly exciting, because then the evaluation is going on, and that is the last budget before deciding what full child care coverage is. In any case, the Council of State must then give the answer, and we are pleased to see if she then answers the question of how the Council of State intends to meet the needs of these families with children.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1165	I have to clarify my answer a little bit and the confirmation of it: I didn't say a few thousand, I said a few thousand, and it could be more than a few thousand. There's something about language confusion here in relation to novel and book goals. But we're missing a part, and we're missing a few thousand for those that are over three. The reason why this is also something we expect, and the reason why we have sent out the nursery message, is that we obtain more accurate information from the municipalities in relation to the real need. And we're assuming that we'll have a much more thorough background material in front of us when we're going to be submitting the nursery report. What we also know is that the municipalities themselves operate with full coverage – some by the year 2000, some by 2004. This means that there will be a different target achievement in municipalities by the year 2000. I'm pretty sure of that. When that applies to the budget, we can all be excited about it. Then, of course – as the representative of my own – there must be money in the nursery sector.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1179	I will ask the Minister for Children and Family Affairs the following questions: ‘It has been claimed that the number of new kindergartens in 1998 is the lowest in many years. What is the reason for this lack of interest in the construction of new kindergartens, and what has the Government done to increase the number of kindergartens?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1188	There is something about the wording of the questions from the representative Fossum that I must start with here too. Of course, the government has an interest in building kindergartens for everyone who wants to, despite the questioner saying that we lack that interest. We don't. And it's no wonder that municipalities that have coverage or full coverage today don't build new places. It is also not strange that those with close coverage check the need carefully before they start up with the last places. But it's strange that municipalities that have a long way to go before they have full coverage are not more active than they are today. Without the participation of local authorities, it is not easy to reach full child care coverage next year. The figures obtained by the Ministry from the SSB show that around 3,200 new places were established in 1998. For children over three years old, we reached the target figure from the budget, but there is a reduction in the number of children's seats under three years old. What we probably don't know yet is whether the demand for nursery places for the smallest children has been really smaller, or whether the nursery builders have waited a little while to see how the cash support would affect demand. A rise in new loans to the House Bank may indicate a positive trend in relation to the creation of kindergartens this year. It may also be that the decline is due to the fact that families do not have flexible enough childcare facilities. I have received a signal from a number of parents who, after the introduction of the cash support, want a combination of kindergarten and supervision at home, without the facilities for part-time work. Conversions to kindergartens from 1 August, which means that there will be an increase in the number of uptime categories and an increase in the rates for shorter uptime periods, will justify multiple part-time slots. We hope that kindergartens can provide those who want it, a more flexible offer than what exists today. I would also like to remind you that the evaluation of cash support will focus on the effects on the kindergarten sector.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1197	I thank the Council of State for the answer and for the correction of the question, but I think it is more important to distinguish between what is written and what is the intention behind the question. I agree that it is amazing that the municipalities that need to expand the kindergarten offer are not more active. But what amazes me even more is that the government sits there and sees that the municipalities are not active, without doing anything. Then the Council of State excused me for drawing the conclusion that it is not interested in inspiring the municipalities to do anything. In fact, the Council of State said in its reply to me now that she had received signals from some parents who, after the introduction of the cash support, wanted a combination, but that they were not allowed to do so by the kindergartens. But there is no understanding of parents without cash support wanting this flexibility. It shows me very carefully what are the Government's motives. My question is, how can the government sit quietly and see that the municipalities do not build kindergartens despite the need?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1206	I believe it is based on a misconception from the representative's side when she points out that that flexibility has not been given to those who do not receive cash support. I have read the status report from the Workers' Party's Women's Movement in relation to kindergartens. It says so. that for those who have cash support, there is a statutory right to flexible solutions in kindergartens, but it is not for those who do not have cash support. That's wrong. Because there is no legal right to a flexible nursery, but we have, with the support schemes, arranged for kindergartens to be able to offer it. Of course, that right is just as clear for those who are under or over three years old, and for those who have or do not have cash support. If you have a four-year-old and you want a three-quarters place, you should get it with the same size right as for a two-year-old, so there's no difference. I believe that the cash support, together with the support schemes we now have for the kindergartens, has motivated several kindergarten owners to offer the flexible offer that many parents want.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1215	The President has just been informed that Hilde Frafjord Johnson is to answer the question from Dag Danielsen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1218	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Council of State Frafjord Johnson: ‘According to Norwegian aid organisations, the refugee situation in Kosovo will be long-term. If Norwegian aid is to maintain public awareness, it is important that it is cost-effective and helps in the most practical way possible. It is also of great importance that the government estimates the long-term costs and the budgetary impact. What is the Government’s estimate on the financial costs and strategy for the practical implementation of the aid?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1227	The conflict in Kosovo is now within its third month. Some signals in recent days may indicate some movement in Belgrade, but it is unclear what concrete concessions Belgrade has made. It is therefore of great importance that President Martti Ahtisaari and Special Envoy Viktor Chernomyrdin now visit Belgrade. The extent of the refugee crisis just seems to be growing. The number of Kosovo refugees in neighbouring countries has now reached 800,000 and more than 450 000 are believed to be displaced internally in the province. To date, Norway has granted 225 million. to humanitarian measures in the region. In addition, as is known, NOK 1.2 billion will be received by 6,000 refugees in Norway, and SEK 300 million. kr for military and humanitarian actions under the auspices of the Defence. Norwegian efforts do not stand back for the contributions of other countries — on the contrary. However, further efforts are needed, and the Government will, as the agencies of the Storting have been informed in the past, come back to the Storing on this before the summer. It is currently impossible to have a clear view of the longer-term needs for humanitarian and reconstruction assistance. The inconspicuous situation in the region and the great potential for sudden upheavals make planning and assessment of needs very difficult. In particular, the needs within Kosovo are unclear. Preliminary reports suggest that the humanitarian situation is acute there as well. It is only when a solution to the conflict is in place that we can get a clear picture of the challenges and needs we face. A picture of the need for humanitarian aid for the Balkans will be available when the UN presents its appeal in July for the second half of 1999. In these days, the UN also concludes a more specific appeal related to the Kosovo crisis directly and the 1.25 million people affected by it. In addition, the reconstruction needs in Kosovo that will certainly be very extensive. It is only when these estimates are available that we can say something more concrete about the financial costs. However, the international community is in the process of establishing a framework for international coordination also of the longer-term measures. There is no doubt that strong international coordination of both humanitarian and reconstruction operations will be the most cost-effective. It also gives the best results in the field. Support for multilateral efforts is therefore important. This has implications for government priorities. In its planning, the government argues that efforts need to continue to focus on humanitarian aid and budget support channelled through the UN system and the Norwegian voluntary organisations. In addition to the measures that the Government will present to the Grand Duchy before the summer, it will come back with a fresh assessment of the situation as soon as the Grand Duchy is reassessed until the autumn. We will come back to the question of budgetary containment in this respect.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1244	I thank you for the answer, which, unfortunately, I think was a little concrete. The Norwegian aid organisations have said that it is quite obvious that this situation will at least last well over the winter. Then it's disturbing what we can read in the evening post today, that the UN High Commissioner for Refugees says that you only have money left to help them about. 800,000 refugees in Albania for three weeks to come. Even more serious is the fact that Norwegian policy is so far slaughtered because it does not focus on the neighbourhoods, but also brings many refugees here. It is true that, if this assistance is to be effective and help as much as possible, and if it is to be built up among the population of Norway, it is important that it is made as cost-effective as possible. In addition, I would like to ask: what have you considered on the practical side? For example, an assessment has been made. measures such as using modules, caravans or similar solutions down there?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1253	Now I don't know who the representative is aiming for when he talks about the Norwegian policy being'slaughtered'. So for this to help in the neighbourhoods: when you accept refugees to Norway, it's at the request of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, UNHCR, and it's in line with what most countries are now doing. There are a number of European countries that accept refugees, precisely to mitigate the pressure in the region. So in case it must be the Progress Party that slaughters this, without necessarily taking it too seriously. We rely more on UNHCR assessments in that context. In the case of aid, Norwegian aid organisations say that the need may be far beyond the winter. We're prepared for that, too. The background to the UNHCR opinion is that one appeal is pending until 1 July. They are now working on a new one, and then new money will have to come in from different countries. That's what we from Norway want to contribute to, and that's why a new case comes from the Government to Stortinget in a very short time. The bodies of the Storting have already been informed of this. Then we'll answer the new appeal. It also includes winter preparations, such as: the acquisition of housing units. Modules may be one option; another option may be winter tent.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1265	This question from the representative Dag Danielsen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs will also be answered by the Minister for Development and Human Rights.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1268	I allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘According to the Evening Post, Norway suffered defeat when the International Whaling Commission decided to extend its mandate to regulate and protect the stock of whales. What is the Government’s assessment of this Decision and what measures are considered to ensure opportunities for future Norwegian whaling?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1277	The article in the Evening Post refers to a resolution on the relationship between the International Whaling Commission, IWC, and CITES, an organisation regulating international trade in endangered species. The Decision is without prejudice to the competence of the Whaling Commission to manage the exploitation of whale populations. The article of the evening post may therefore give a somewhat misleading impression of the facts. The Resolution of the Whaling Commission seeks to substantiate a practice in which the advice of the Commission to CITES is based on the political moratorium on whaling, rather than providing advice on the biological status of the various whale populations, as the assumption was. CITES has today listed the populations of wavy whales taxed by Norway on its list of species and populations threatened with extinction, despite the fact that the stock estimates of the Whaling Commission’s own scientific committee show that the North-East Atlantic wavy stock harvested by Norway is in good condition and comprises a total of 112 000 animals. Norway has proposed to CITES that the populations of wave whales which we tax are moved to another list, where exports are permitted under specified conditions. Our reason for this is that the populations are obviously not threatened by extinction. The government is actively working on our list proposal, which will be re-examined at the next Conference of the Parties to CITES in April next year. We want to do what we can to ensure that the adopted resolution does not have a negative impact on this work. In the case of the Norwegian whaling, it will continue under our reservation to the Whaling Commission moratorium.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1292	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The fishing industry, in this case whaling, has historically been a central Norwegian industry, which, along the coast, has seriously contributed to the creation of an independent living base for the population. What worries me is that the IWC seems to have become a pure protection organization, where you don't even listen to your own researchers. It also seems that this situation is completely blocked, while Norway spends a lot of money on being part of the IWC, an organisation we at the seventh and last do not listen to when it comes to it. My follow-up questions are: What is the Government's long-term strategy in this area? Is it useful in the long run to be part of the IWC? And what other offensive measures will Norway take in order to contribute to the economic viability of whaling?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1301	I would just like to make it very brief that the decision of this to which the representative refers does not affect the competence of the Whaling Commission to manage the exploitation of whale populations, and therefore does not affect our own taxation. But to the question: I agree with the representative that in the last whaling commission that ended last Friday, there is more to block and confrontation than what we have seen in recent years. The interest shown by some countries last year in continuing the process of finding a compromise solution in the Commission was not as clear this year. It also concerns Norwegian authorities, and it does not promise the future of the Commission. However, Norway still sees itself as a member of the IWC. We are working to ensure that the Commission concentrates on the tasks it intends to perform, namely the sustainable management of whale populations. However, the future of the Commission depends on its success in bridging the contradictions between the protection countries and traditional fishing nations, so that work can take place again on the basis of the Whaling Commission. And that will be our strategy in our further work in the Whaling Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1313	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘There has been a broad political agreement that the coastal fleet is the bearer of fisheries. It has also been agreed that there is overcapacity in the fishing fleet and that capacity reduction is necessary. A report from SINTEF shows that despite these recognitions, it is invested as never before in the seagoing fleet. What new measures will the Ministry of Fisheries propose to reverse this trend rapidly?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1322	The level of investment in the fleet ranges from year to year. In the 1990s, the overall fleet replacement rate has been consistently low. Fleet renewal during this period has been numerically dominated by vessels less than 15 metres in length. As a result of this development, the average age of the fleet has become very high for several operational groups. Data from SINTEF show that this picture is now being modified by a recent increase in the investment rate in the seagoing fleet. The communication of the perspective presented by the Ministry of Fisheries to the Stortinget in 1998 and the examination of the notification by the Stortinget provides the basis for the design by the fisheries authorities of instruments aimed at fleets. In the perspective Communication, modernisation and renewal of the fishing fleet have been highlighted as central to increasing the total value creation of the industry. The fleet upgrade is important in several respects. High average age causing problems in terms of higher operating costs, difficulties in adapting vessels to changing environmental and quality requirements, the use of by-products, the management of waste and safety and the working environment for the crew. The Perspective Communication points out that upgrading the fleet will be a key challenge without further building up the fishing capacity in the industry and increasing the pressure on resources. The size agreed on the need for fleet renewal and modernisation without leading to overall capacity increase. The perspective statement shows that the Government will prioritise the replacement of the year-round coastal fleet between 15 and 34 metres. This group has a high average age and is important to ensure a stable supply of raw material to the fish industry. This group is also a priority in the guidelines for SND. Condemnation arrangements are in place to help avoid capacity increase in the event of renewal and, furthermore, the need for fleet renewal in North Norway shall be given weight. In the sea fishing fleet, different concession arrangements mean that the access of this group to fishing is virtually entirely regulated. The claim made by the Swedish Federation for the Protection of Nature is therefore not correct. Based on the need to limit capacity growth, the Government announced in the Perspectives Communication that it would consider the introduction of a concession scheme for conventional vessels over 28 metres in length. The Ministry of Fisheries has now sent such a proposal to be consulted. In my opinion, the unit quota system is a very central instrument for ensuring capacity limitation within the concession-related fisheries. The scheme involves several quotas being merged by shipowners against the permanent withdrawal of a vessel from fishing operations. This plan is relatively new and it is too early to draw conclusions from its impact in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1339	There is too little time in a question time question to go critically through a report and say whether it can reveal new things in Norwegian fisheries. In response, the Council of State is talking about the level of investment going on in waves, and the fleet renewal has been numerically dominated by vessels less than 15 meters, but this does not say much about the fishing capacity. If 80 pst. investment in the period 1985-1999 has gone to the sea-going fleet, which means a large increase in fishing capacity and a pressure on resources. Can the State Council confirm that the fishing capacity of the seagoing fleet has fallen? Then, I'd like to – sail if it's a short time – link some comments to what the Council of State says to put emphasis on the renewal of the fleet in North Norway. According to the figures I'm sitting with from 1985-1999, 70 pst. the investments made to vessels in South Norway, and this year, as it is now to be emphasised, only three of the 23 vessels in excess of 34 metres built are from North Norway. The Council of State thinks that these numbers are kind of right, and then what do you do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1348	When reference is made to a critical report that has been presented, I would just like to point out that that statement comes from the Swedish Union for the Protection of Nature and is an interpretation that the Federation of Nature and Nature Protection, but not the SINTEF and the reporter, is behind. The reporter has clearly rejected the interpretations made by the Swedish Union for the Protection of Nature in its press releases to the media. What the report shows is that there is only an increase in the level of investments in the fleet and the group within which the investments have taken place. It doesn't say anything about the fishing capacity, like the Nature Conservation Association and the questioner really puts in it. In terms of where the investment takes place, two areas have to be distinguished. One is areas in which the State participates in investments and grants. I have answered the question a few weeks ago. There is a significant good balance between north and south, and between sea and coast in this area. Second, the investments which shipowners themselves make in full within the framework of ship concepts approved within the capacity system. I do not think it is right that the Minister for Fisheries should take responsibility for that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1360	I would like to ask the Minister of Finance the following questions: ‘According to Norway’s leading hunting magazine ‘Jeger, Hund and Arms’, small game and wild reindeer hunting, but not elgacht, is exempt from VAT on state land and in rural public opinion. Turnover of hunting rights is an important and increasing revenue base in District Norway. Will the Council of State ensure the elimination of this pointless discrimination with regard to VAT between elk and other comparable hunting?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1369	Under the VAT law, VAT shall be calculated on the turnover of goods and certain services. What is considered as a good is defined in Section 2 of the Act. The right to hunting and fishing is considered to be a product under this provision. Therefore, as a starting point, the sale or rental of hunting and fishing rights is subject to a fee for a shorter or longer period of time. In cases where such a right is not traded, e.g.: when exploiting their hunting rights, VAT shall not be calculated. After the mountain law, everyone has the right to hunt for small game and the right to fish in general public. The Ministry of Justice, by letter of 20 August 1982 to the Ministry of Finance, stated that this is a «Real right which must be considered to be confirmed by the Mountain Act and which is not acquired by the settlement of hunting or fishing licences and payment of fees». ‘The fee to be paid in this case shall not be deemed to be an automatic fee for the transfer of the hunting and fishing rights.’;» Therefore, VAT shall not be calculated when issuing hunting cards in these cases, because there is no hunting right being traded. This right already exists. On 29 November 1984, the Ministry of Finance decided that the sale of hunting cards for wild game hunting in public opinion should be exempted from VAT. At the time, there was doubt as to whether there was a right to hunt for wild animals under the mountain law, so that VAT would not be calculated on the issue of hunting tickets. In order to equalise the right to hunt for wild game with the right to hunt for small game and the right to fish in general public, the Ministry therefore chose to grant an exemption. In the case of the sale of small game hunting cards and fishing licenses from rural public opinion to beneficiaries of use, the marketing of a right is also deemed not to be mandatory and thus not to be subject to taxable turnover. The beneficiaries exploit their own rights but pay for a collective administration, etc. under the direction of the general public. Since it was appropriate to have the same charging rules for general public and public buildings, the sale of hunting cards on wild animals by the general public was exempted from VAT by the Ministry’s Decision of 8 April 1994. Thus, under the existing legislation, no VAT shall be paid on the sale of cards for small game hunting, wild reindeer hunting or fishing in general and on the land of the State. Nor shall a fee be paid for the sale of cards for use by persons entitled to use in the case of small game hunting, wild reindeer hunting and fishing in the general public. In the case of any other turnover of rights to hunting and fishing, where the law does not govern the law, VAT shall normally be calculated. The VAT system is based on the principle that similar goods should be treated equally in relation to VAT. As my small account illustrates, other parts of the VAT system may, for example: the requirement to place on the market leads to different results in practice. The applicable legislation and administrative practices in this area are justified by the specificities of the charging system. The issue is more comprehensive than the question asked. However, I agree that the legal status of today should be assessed in greater detail. That's what I'm going to do as soon as possible. The Ministry of Finance has a specific case concerning this legal issue and will assess the need for changes in its handling.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1398	I would like to thank you for your answer. But I can't avoid having a heart attack in relation to how the temporary law of 1 pst. The turnover tax has been allowed to develop into the conglomerate we are now facing, and that there are industrious and competent people in our departments who have the task of interpreting and deriving from these complex rules. Now the Council of State says that the issue is more comprehensive than the question that has been asked. It just emphasizes what I said, that there are obviously many complex aspects of this, things that for doctors seem simple. The Council of State also says that the Department has a specific case to deal with this legal issue. It would then be interesting, if it is possible at the moment, to hear a little about what a concrete matter it is that it is in itself more extensive than the question that has been asked, and whether the Council of State can say something about when we can expect a position in relation to the specific question I have asked.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1407	I don't think it is right to touch on a specific matter that is dealt with in the department, but I can say something more about why this matter is more extensive than what is in the representative Hernæs' question, for it was about treating the sale of hunting tickets for elgocht with the sale of small game hunting cards. It has been done quickly to point out that there are other large game species, for example. deer, which are not compared and addressed in Hernæs’ questions, and e.g. deer should lie in a kind of intermediate zone between large game and small game, so it is obvious that there are several animal species that should be considered here. Furthermore, attempts have been made to ensure equal treatment between public and public opinion, and then one can quickly ask: Why not also, for example, land-owner properties? And finally, if they were to be included, why not individual property judgments? This is relatively complicated, but as I have said, I see that this is inexorable, and that what has been done so far is not very principled. That is why I will now undertake an investigation and an assessment of this issue, with a view to drawing up more comprehensible guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1417	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture the following questions: ‘The country’s topography also means that many farmers have properties spread over several municipalities/districts. This implies that, on the basis of the arbitrary discretion of the agricultural authorities, they may have to live on different parts of the holding. Amund Grindalen is obliged and has fulfilled the obligation to live in his farm in Elverum, and is now obliged to live in his forest and mountain homes in the Lierne. Is this, in the view of the Council of State, a sound and desirable arrangement?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1426	I will first briefly explain what has happened in the matter before. The Liene forest management was taken over in 1993. However, as early as 1989, there was a request for a permanent exemption from the Lis' housing obligation. The County Agriculture Council granted a permanent exemption from the obligation of residence, but the Ministry reversed this in 1990 and granted a two-year exemption. After the complaint, this was confirmed at kgl. Res. of 18 January 1991. The deadline for the move to the property was set in the summer of 1996. Amund Grindalen has then applied again for an exemption from the obligation to live. This is also clarified in a letter dated 26 March 1998. With regard to the specific issue, I would say that I do not accept as a premise that the agricultural authorities show arbitrary discretion in matters of exemption from the obligation to live under the law of nobility and concession. Initially, the person who owns more properties is not in any position other than that which has only one property. This applies regardless of whether the dwelling on another property is already fulfilled. Amund Grindalen's case has usually been dealt with in accordance with the guidelines applicable to this type of case. One here, as otherwise, has assessed Grindalen's connection to the property, the size of the properties, the profitability, etc. The question is whether these elements suggest that he should be exempted from the obligation to live on the property he owns in the Licenses, as requested. There has also been a central moment about the property in the Lierne and the property he owns in Elverum can be seen as one holding, or they must be seen as two separate units. In this context, there has been an important moment when there is a significant distance between these two properties. The distance between the properties in Lierne and Elverum is clearly opposed to considering them as one holding. In housing matters, it is important to maintain the residence in the area where the property is located. In the Lis there is a clear need to maintain the settlement. In addition, the property has, among others: also to the extent of good resources that the return does not favour exemption from the obligation to live. One here has accepted that Grindalen can fulfill the obligation to live in the municipality, not on the property itself. Otherwise, I refer to the legislation in this area and to the guidelines followed in such cases. The size has not commented on these guidelines. I therefore believe that the guidelines provide guidance on balanced and reasonable solutions in cases such as this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1445	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which, in my view, refers only to the ministry's view and little to the opinions of the Council of State. That's a shame there's no reason for more than one supplementary question – so I have to make my questions concrete. The two properties mentioned have been in the owner's family since 1822 in Elverum and from the turn of the century in relation to the forest property in the Lierne, i.e. good estate properties. In the past, there has been no obligation to live on the property in the Lierne, which is a clean forest and outdoor property without a dwelling, only two cabins. The owner is on the property approx. four-five months a year, including: during the hunting and fishing season, so as to ensure the possibility of the property's return and follow-up. There is no doubt either that the property is well run and well run. In the answer, it seems that only the distance between the Elverum and the Lires suggests that he has to live. Here, it could be a matter of principle and judgement. Question: When do two properties move to one property? Does the Council of State consider it appropriate to split out holdings to meet the requirement of residence? And does the Council of State not think that Norwegian agricultural policy in this area could be contrary to the Constitution and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights? In the latter, it says that no one must arbitrarily be deprived of his property and that everyone has the right to move freely and to choose the place of residence within the borders of a country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1460	First of all, the Ministry is the Council of State. Whether a user uses the term ‘ministerial’ or ‘governmental council’, it is the Council of State that means something. With regard to the specific issue, whether the obligation to live is contrary to human rights, I would say that housing is a central theme and a central premise in Norwegian agricultural policy to maintain housing in the districts. Viewing two properties with such a large distance between them – up to 80 miles, or through Sweden 55 miles – as one holding, could lead to the purchase of properties that are not desirable from what we have as a pretext for agricultural policy today. The discretion shown is based on the fact that a property of approx. 84 000 deches, of which it is approx. 37 000 Decars of productive area are a resource that can be considered as a good holding.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1469	Question 19 is answered in front of question 32.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1475	I will be allowed to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘Previous Minister of Justice Aud-Inger Aure asked in January 1998 about the establishment of a neutral dispute resolution body in relation to claims. Despite positive feedback from the Minister of Justice at the time, the body is not yet established. Will the Council of State now ensure that we have such a body?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1484	In the 1994 basic investigation on injury compensation, NOU 1994: 20, it was recommended that consideration be given to the establishment of a body which, at the request of either or both parties, should have the competence to issue advisory opinions on medical matters. The reason for this recommendation is that disagreements on medical issues, including: on causality and medical invalidity is a problem in a large number of personal injury cases. When it takes a lot of time to clarify medical issues, the insurance settlement is also delayed in time. As I see this, it is important to put in place a body that can help clarify medical issues in the best possible way in the insurance business, especially in traffic damage cases. The work on this issue is under way in the Ministry of Justice. I would like to stress that the issue concerns a body to provide advisory opinions, not a dispute resolution body. We are working on developing a basic material that can provide a starting point for concrete discussions on different detailed issues with representatives of user groups, the medical profession and others. During the consultation on that principle investigation, the recommendation to set up such a body was generally welcomed. However, with regard to the details, there are, in part, quite different views on how the scheme should be. Questions that need to be clarified include: the body's field of activity, composition, procedure and financing. If such a scheme is to function as intended in the basic investigation, it is important that it be designed to meet the confidence of all the teams concerned from the start. Untrustworthy will not be able to function well. It is therefore important to use the time necessary to establish, where possible, a well-functioning system. I'm going in to get this done.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1497	I thank you for the answer, but I think it has happened very little since January 1998, when I got about a corresponding answer. What bothers me a little bit is that the Council of State now seems to be defying the importance of a dispute resolution body. The issue of legal certainty for insurance customers has been raised on several occasions in Stortinget. When last year – I think it was March 6th – we had an interpellation on the whole topic overall, we did not make any suggestions about this body because we had received such positive feedback. Can the Council of State now explain in more detail the progress of this work? I don't think he was into that. Five years ago this NOU was already presented. Former Minister of Justice Gerd-Liv Valla was well-informed about this work. A long time has passed, and it seems that this government has not taken this part of what goes on legal certainty for insurance customers, seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1506	I do not know the work on the matter under previous governments. I can only confirm that work has been started and that the question is being worked on. Of course, the representative will not be unaware that the department has many issues and sometimes we are faced with cross-cutting calls from Stortinget. Nevertheless, I am aware of the matter, and I follow it as well. The fact of the matter is that we want an arrangement that is better than the one we have with an advisory dispute subject for the assessment of neck injuries. There is a system in place by agreement between the Norwegian Insurance Association and the Norwegian Medical Association. It is not used as much as desired. We just want the body to have confidence so that it can function according to the purpose formulated in the question. I cannot now tell the representative in detail when the matter comes, but I will follow it on, so that I am sure that it is not unduly delayed in the work. So I can confirm that the work is going on, and that it has the character that I said. We want to clarify the practical questions, so that we get to a system. It's not that we're not going to make a deal. We want to get it done, and I am also going to follow up the matter further.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1518	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘In accordance with the proposals for provisions of the new Arms Act, it shall be prohibited to own and hold silencers on rifles. However, the use of silencers in training shooting reduces noise pollution around shooting tracks and also helps to avoid noise damage to the shooters. Why will the Council of State prohibit such positive instruments in the country's shooting environment?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1527	In its proposal to amend the Arms Regulation, the Ministry of Justice has proposed a ban on owning or holding silencers for firearms, without the police's permission. After that department has gained experience, there is no need to mount silencers on weapons to be used for practice and competition shooting. There are no shooting organisations managing programmes where soundproofing is included. Similarly, as a general rule, there is no real need for silencers on weapons to be used for hunting, in addition to a certain need for silencers on Salon weapons, in calibre 22 ‘long rifles’ for example. crow hunt and for the eradication of pests. The Ministry has proposed in the draft new regulations that the latter type of weapon should be exempted from the proposed ban. In its proposal, the Ministry of Justice has argued that silencers have been used to a very small extent by shooters for shooting on approved shooting tracks. If one or a smaller number of shooters were to use silencers, this is presumed to have little or no effect on the noise level of the approved shooting tracks, as the vast majority of shooters train with the weapon to be used for competition where no silencers are used. During training on these types of tracks, the shooters will, under any circumstances, need to use hearing protection to avoid hearing damage. I would like to make it clear that the Department's proposal will not constitute an absolute prohibition on owning and holding silencers. The proposal sets out a request for police permission, so the police know who has silencers for their weapons. Therefore, shooters who can demonstrate an actual need for silencers will be able to apply to the police for a warrant.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1538	As I thank you for the answer, I would like to express our courage in the Minister of Justice. In a situation where the working situation of the police is as we all know it is, it seems that there is no end to what demeanors the police are going to have to deal with. I would also like to mention that, in relation to a previous question, the Council of State said that the department also had a lot of work tasks. I allow myself, with all due respect, to propose that we make a clean-up of the greatest necessities. Otherwise, an old saying says that the one who has a piano also gets a cow. I don't think it's ever voted, and at least I don't think it's that way that whoever has silencer gets guns. Why it should be necessary to register and apply to the police to have an instrument that can only have positive elements in it, is completely impossible for me to understand. Finally, that I don't understand it is one thing. The shooting environment doesn't understand anything either. In the end, I could imagine asking if the Council of State could brief a little on the positive meetings that he now hopefully has, or has agreed to, with the Norwegian shooting environment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1549	Once I have had such positive meetings – and I will have – I will be happy to inform you about it. The representative and I, of course, share the opinion that you should not make unnecessary efforts. The representative and I also share the view that there are legal rules to be followed – the representative and I have a very strong common understanding of it. I have a lot of sympathy for the representative's commitment to the shooter case. But I stick to the simple rules of the game that the weapons used do not normally have silencers – and I have seen no reason why this should be granted any general permission. Should there be exceptional cases, and I have explained to someone who is exempt from the law, among others. some types of hunting, it's okay. In other cases it could be assessed. This is due to the control needs that were formulated when the Arms Act was dealt with in Stortinget, and which I at best believe I am trying to manage. However, it is always possible by political disagreement to promote questions of procedure later in Stortinget – the representative is of course familiar with this. But until further notice, I am administering the law that has been passed, to the best of my knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1563	I will ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘Why has the Lottery Act not been promoted in spring 1999, as promised in the past?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1570	I have been unsure whether the government would be able to promote this proposition in the spring session. In the Question Time on 28 April I said that the proposition was delayed in relation to the original progress plan, but that I was aiming to promote the bill in the spring session. I can now confirm that the bill is being promoted before Stortinget takes a summer vacation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1575	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am pleased that the matter is being promoted in spring 1999. The background to my question was that I registered that the matter was not listed in the summary of matters that the Government would promote in the spring session 1999. It has taken a long time to promote this matter for Stortinget. It was being finalised in the Ministry of Justice in the autumn of 1997. The change of government contributed well to a postponement. The case was promised to be advanced in the spring 1998 session by the then state council Aure. I am pleased that we now have the matter sent to Stortinget during the current month, and look forward with excitement to the suggestions the Government is making in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1584	As I said, just after I took over as the Council of State – that is, in the Questionnaire on 28 April – I aimed to get it done. I felt the need – I can repeat the same thing as I said before – to be sure that the legislation reflected the fact that the main rule should be that we have a voluntary organisational life that works in an OK way, that we have to find out control and penalty rules that relate to normality, and that then take the special cases that there is reason to respond to. This has its background in the general sympathy I have for the voluntary organization life. I had to be sure of this. We have now had such a review, and therefore I could give the confirmation that I did in the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1592	I have a question for the Minister of Justice: ‘The government will extend access to labour immigration from outside the EEA territory also for the low-skilled and unskilled. In the treatment of the nutrition notification, the Labour Party and the Advance Party opposed increased labour immigration. Nevertheless, the Government has sent the proposals out to the hearing. As these are regulations, landfill treatment is not required. Will the Council of State ensure that the proposals are set aside?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1601	The government assesses adjustments to the foreign regulation that facilitate recruitment of labour from abroad. I stress that a prerequisite will still be that there is no available domestic labour force. On 27 January, the Government sent a proposal for a new provision in the second paragraph of Section 5 of the Foreign Regulation to be consulted. The proposal was to provide unskilled labour in establishments with temporary needs. The authorisation shall not be renewable beyond one year. Applicants must be from specific regions, defined in cooperation between four departments, the Ministry of Labour and Administration, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. These will be applicants from Central and Eastern Europe. The Government sent another proposal at the hearing on 8 April concerning the decoration of the so-called specialist provision in the foreign regulation, point (a) of the second paragraph of Section 3. The hearing period expires on 1 July. The proposal opens up the possibility for skilled labour at all levels to receive a work permit as a specialist. Following our proposal, it is no longer necessary for the applicant to be a graduate at a higher level, which was defined as two to three years of study beyond the upper level. After the proposal, it is sufficient that the applicant is qualified. Following the expiry of the consultation periods and the evaluation of the hearing opinions, the Government will carefully assess whether the changes in question will be compatible with the views of the majority of the population. If necessary, the government will submit the proposals to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1616	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and will mention the treatment of the nutrition notification, where the two parties, the Labour Party and the Advance Party, would not open up increased labour immigration. And I'll quote LO Secretary Liv Undheim, who forms the basis of the Workers' Party's comments: «We have to order our own house before we start importing labour. It makes no sense to talk about increased labour migration when we have about 70,000 without regular work here at home. In addition to the 70,000 without regular work, thousands of women go on part-time but want to work full-time. It is also such that the unemployment rate among immigrants... is three to four times as high as the average. Before we start importing more, we should qualify these." I'm very pleased that the Council of State, since we have a minority government, is responsive to what a majority in the United Kingdom thinks. If you are least in doubt about the interpretation of the comment on the nutrition notification, you will come back to Stortinget – and I am pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1628	I have today and before explained the government's policy in this field, and also in the past, and repeated it today, on how I will work on such questions. I want to let things go out to the hearing – one of these hearings was sent out for that matter before the nutrition committee gave its opinion. So I want to hear and look at what comes in through the hearing, then make an assessment, as I said. This is in line with the programme statement I made, among others. when we had the so-called babysitting issue for treatment. I will, of course, carefully evaluate it. I have also – of course – been involved in the position of the Business Committee at the point to which the representative refers. My point is very simple: where I feel I have a mandate with coverage in the bulk of the population, I do, and where I feel there may be uncertainty about it, I have to find it out in a suitable way. And I'll go forward that way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1640	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘In recent years, the funds allocated to language training to linguistic minorities in secondary school have not been used up. Nevertheless, a strict interpretation of the grant rules leads, for example, to the grant of less than 10 pst to the Municipality of Oslo. of what they use in the area. Why are funds for such a priority area unused, and can the disagreement between the Ministry of Church, Education and Research and the Municipality of Oslo on the interpretation of the legislation be a reason why funds are still unused?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1649	The provision of additional training for linguistic minorities above Chapter 0231 entry 65 of the State budget is a designated contribution which comes in addition to transfers to further training which is charged to the budget of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. The purpose of the scheme is to stimulate the county councils to provide additional training for linguistic minorities in continuing training who have received or have not received training in the Norwegian Elementary School. The funds are allocated to the county municipalities according to the criteria laid down by the Stortinget. The main reason why the funds are not used up is that there are not enough elephants and apprentices now that meet the criteria, and that can trigger support from the scheme. In the light of the developments in the single round of rounding payments, the Stortingeet decided to delimit the target group by setting criteria in 1993 when the State budget was aged. This is not the way people born in Norway, people who have had additional language training in the primary school for three years or more, and people who have resided in the country for ten years or more after the age of 16. In addition, the Stortinget has agreed, later on in the treatment of the 1999 State budget, that persons who have resided in Norway only for the purpose of continuing training should not be exempted from the scheme. The Ministry practises these criteria for rejection. In 1998, the Ministry of Education received feedback from the State Education Office and the county authorities on the criteria and control measures linked to them. These indicate that the criteria are problematic for school owners, and that they require considerable work from schools, school owners and the State Training Office. The Ministry will therefore re-examine the proposal. Any proposals for simplification will be submitted to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1660	I thank you for your answer, and I also thank you for your willingness to look at the legislation, to see if there is a need to make changes. However, there is reason to recognise that Norwegian training is likely to be more necessary than that for which grants are granted. There are some limitations in the system, there are limitations on the number of hours you can receive, etc. One is in a situation where one has funds. We know – often at least – that the number of hours put at your disposal – for which you can use and for which you can receive a grant – is not enough. We know that many people do not manage during that period to acquire Norwegian knowledge that is satisfactory. Should this not be the basis for the practice of the legislation that is more flexible than the ministry has clearly done, given that there is money, so that more people can be offered, not least that those who are in and are offered can get a better offer than they are today?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1669	Now, when an administrator's funds ran above the state budget, it has to be careful that it does so in accordance with the criteria agreed by the Storting. That's what good governance practice is. However, I would not like to say without saying that what the representative, Rikvam, says, cannot be a point – once there have been extra funds, they could have been useful in improving the situation for some. That's why I'm coming back, and I think the time to come back must be to the cottage in the state budget. I would also like to promise that I will take with me the problem that the representative Rikvam had. If it may be possible to interpret some of the copies mentioned by the representative of Reikvam, among others. from Oslo, within the guidelines, we have to look at it, but we have to be sure that we are in line with the Storting decision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1679	I have the following questions for the Minister of Education: ‘The Oslo City Council will reduce sharing hours in primary school. According to Norwegian Teachers' Team, this is becoming a nationwide problem. What action will the Council of State take against this development?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1688	I am uncertain to what extent the reduction in the number of dividing hours is a nationwide problem. Statistics from the whole country show, on the contrary, that the number of divided hours has risen by 0.2 pst. from the 1997-98 school year to 1998-99. However, I will follow closely the situation for the school year 1999-2000. Law requires a specific teacher resource for the first class/presole. In addition to this, limited sharing hours will not be required. It is therefore not appropriate to introduce measures against local priorities as long as the municipalities comply with the minimum legal requirements. I still want to add something. Providing additional learning resources through sharing hours gives the opportunity to introduce general strengthening measures in the class and to prevent elephants from falling off the load. The target is, among other things, reducing the scope of special education after expert judgement and individual decisions. I think that this is a wise priority of resources and has therefore given clear advice to the municipalities to work according to such a strategy, among other things. in St.meld. No 23 for 1997-98. I am very pleased that many municipalities are systematically investing in sharing hours at class level in order to reduce the need for hours for special education at individual level. In this context I also refer to proposals in St.meld. No 28 for 1998-99 on experimentation in 10-15 municipalities with changed and more flexible models for the allocation of hourly resources at youth level, so that the allocation of resources is more closely linked to the number of pupils in each year. This will allow for greater flexibility in the organisation of training and provide room for more targeted use of hourly resources. The evaluation of the tests will determine whether and how to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1699	I thank you for the answer, although I feel that there was a very general response, and that there were little political views in it – except for one, and that is the most important one: I perceive that the Council of State believes that sharing hours are very important precisely to deal with the development of special education where the students are taken out of class. I'm glad. But what I also raised in my question is the situation in Oslo. And it's clear that there's a problem in Oslo School. I have expectations that at least the Council of State will follow closely the developments in Oslo and, if he does not take direct action, at least come with a clear warning if progress is in a direction where it is the weakest – if I can use that expression – who are hit by cuts in the dividing hours, if the City Council puts it into action, would possibly get the consent of the City Council in Oslo to it. So I hope that the Council of State is now following developments closely and recording the turmoil that lies in the Oslo schools on this point.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1706	The policy in my answer was as the representative Rune Kristiansen said, in that it is better to give split hours than to wait until one according to the law has to intervene with a single decision. At the same time, after the system we have for transferring to the municipalities and the way we've organized ourselves, it's through the signal in the first round that the Council of State can work. I'll take with me the invitation from the representative Rune Kristiansen when it comes to the school in Oslo. Of course, the current turmoil and situation are also worrying from a national point of view. There's a lot of elephants in the Oslo School. But I trust that they also work intensively now to find good solutions, and then we get back – the representative Rune Kristiansen and I – when we deal with St.meld. No 28 in particular, to look at how we carry on thinking and policy in this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1717	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: «Regional Committee for Medical Research Ethics in Health Region II has rejected a research project on neck length damage even if it does not violate existing ethical rules. They have not reasoned their refusal to the applicant and have refused the applicant a copy of the opinion obtained from an external specialist. They will also not agree to the publication of the completed part of the project. Should the Research Ethics Committees be able to advise against a project which does not violate the rules and which has a high level of public interest?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1726	In each of the five health regions of the country, regional medical research ethics committees have been set up. The mandate of the Committees is determined by the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research, which has also appointed them on a proposal from the Ministry of Education and Research. from the universities of the regions. The Committees are broadly composed and consist of others. by a layman, a lawyer, an ethicist, and a doctor's representative. All biomedical research projects involving human experimentation shall be submitted to one of the Committees for a pre-evaluation of research ethics. On the basis of the information provided, the Committee shall recommend or reject the implementation of a project. It is important to stress that the committees are not administrative bodies. In line with international guidelines, they are given a free and independent position, both in relation to private interests and to the powers of government. The fact that they are not administrative bodies, also means that they advise them, cannot be charged with any appeals. So the committees have to advise, but their assessments are not formally binding. The system is based largely on trust between researchers and committees. In practice, the Committees attach great importance to having a good dialogue with the leaders of the research project. After a dissuade, the project manager may also ask for a case to be re-examined. The answer to the general question posed by the representative Kristoffersen is no. Of course, the committees should not abandon a project that does not violate ethical rules and which has a high level of public interest. In his question, the representative refers Kristoffersen to a special research project that has been rejected by one of the committees. As one will appreciate what I have already said about the Committees' position, it would not be right for me to give any consideration to the conclusion reached by the Committee here. As I said, the system is based on trust, and for my part, I have full confidence that the committees are doing a good job. I am also sure that the Committee on the matter in question has made a right decision on the basis of all the information available.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1739	Neck length injuries represent a major problem for medical staff, both related to cause and treatment. Neck length damage occurs in many contexts of persons who have been exposed to traffic accidents, and the issue relates to the attitude and actions of insurance companies towards persons with such injuries, which often do not receive the right they should have had. In addition to this, the problem is probably also due to the fact that there may not be enough medical knowledge to reveal the cause. It shall be granted. I therefore think it is unfortunate that the experiment that Professor Per Holck of the Anatomical Institute at the University of Oslo wants to carry out by means of deceased persons cannot be carried out. I must then ask the Council of State on the basis of his reply to me: Does the Council of State believe that the value of this scientific experiment can be established before the experiment is carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1748	No, I'll tell myself with the representative, Kristoffersen, that one cannot determine what medical benefit one can have of a trial until the trial, if any, has been completed. At the same time, it is clear that a research ethics committee should take a broad view of a trial, and one of the things that need to be evaluated is also respect for the deceased and how to handle it in such an attempt. I have nothing special to add to what I said in my first answer, except that I have confidence that a broad assessment is important. But I have to say, from a doctor's point of view, that I too would have had a problem with the trial as it was to be carried out. Therefore, I have no basis and no formal authority to verify.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1758	I would like to ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘In Rogaland, up to 5000-6000 secondary school students are required to pay for a previous rating. They now have to pay 250 kroner. in the month of the school kiss that was previously free. Of course, the county saves millions of students from being charged new ‘school money’, while weakening our goal of equal rights to education. The scheme has been approved by the Ministry. What does the Council of State think that the county councils are strengthening their own economy at the expense of young people, and if so, will he ensure that the exemption scheme is phased out?’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1767	In connection with Stortinget's treatment of Ot. pp. No 32 for 1993-94 on changes in welfare law showed the majority in the Committee that in several municipalities there are schemes of so-called youth cards or environmental cards. This is a reasonable supply for all young people between the ages of 16 and 20, and applies to travelling to and from school, work and leisure activities. The majority indicated that it would be difficult to maintain the provision of youth cards/environmental cards without including a school traineeship. The majority said that the system of these cards is positive, because both young people who are entitled to free school pillows and those who do not have them can use collective means of transport for trips other than trips to and from school. Against this background, the majority of the municipalities can obtain a derogation from the requirement of the welfare law on free showers for elephants who live more than 6 km from the school. The following strict conditions should be taken into account in order to be able to grant exemptions: the Youth Card/Environmental Card should be strongly subsidised, and there must be a well-developed community offer at the site. In addition, the card must be available to all young people in the age group concerned, and the card must be available every day. The majority suggested that these conditions should be adhered to by law in the welfare laws. On this basis, the Ministry lays down rules on exemption from the requirement for free school pillows in August 1995. Under this regulation, Buskerud, Vestfold and Vest-Agder counties and the Municipality of Oslo have been exempted from the requirement of the welfare law on free shooting. The municipality of Rogaland has applied to the Ministry for a derogation in accordance with the prescribed rules. As I see it, the conditions for granting Rogaland county exemption according to the current rules are fulfilled. The current Regulation will be repealed as from 1 August following the entry into force of the new Training Act. The rules laid down in the Regulation have been proposed to be passed on under the training law. Because the new regulation, which is to apply from 1 August, is not yet adopted by the Ministry, there is no formal decision to grant a derogation to the county. I am prepared to grant Rogaland County Municipality such a derogation as soon as the new regulation is signed. The experience I have with the dispensation schemes is good, and I have not intended to go in to abolish the system of the majority in the Committee in 1994.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1787	I thank the Council of State for your answer. I find it disappointing to the Council of State Lilletun that he does not have a more offensive attitude to the notion of equal rights to education. There is no doubt that this has consequences. One assumes that the municipality of Rogaland will convene approx. Eight million. I want to add this to other groups. If that amount is right, I don't know. But there is no doubt that it is used to strengthen the local economy, at the expense of young people. And it's alarming that the Council of State thinks it's all right. Of course, the Council of State and the SV could have wanted a better economy. At least SV has to work for it. But I had expected a slightly more offensive attitude from this central government when it comes to the topic of equal rights to education. Youth cards, environmental cards, are a great thing. But of course it should have been free for all youth, not like now, that one actually has to pay for the services one was previously entitled to, free of charge.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1796	Of course, there may be a more offensive attitude at times. Here I mean that it's not incongruous either, because there's no doubt that this way of coordinating, in the states that have already tried it, has led to a better overall ban on public communications for young people in general. Most people spend less money on transportation than they would have done without this card. The coordination also implies that the overall cost of running is lower, for one has a complete overview. Therefore, this is not a new central government policy. The Centre Party and the Workers' Party, and I also believe Right, stood together about this when it was being treated in its time. And I see, as I said, no reason to change that position.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1804	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for the Church, Education and Research: 'It's our concern at the State Theatre School in Oslo this spring in connection with the economic situation at the high school. Both the restriction of study provision and partial closure have been suggested by the department board. The framework for theatre training in this country is among the lowest in the Nordic region. What will the Council of State do to ensure the country’s satisfactory theatrical education in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1813	The Department of State Theatre College is part of the Academy of Arts in Oslo, and it is the renting of the School of Arts that is responsible for allocating budgetary resources between the departments. When it comes to the economic situation at the Academy of Fine Arts in Oslo, I refer to the briefing I gave to the Stortinget in connection with the revised national budget. The material I presented showed that during the period 1992–1997 the government's art spheres had a better budgetary development than the institutions in the university and higher education sectors, measured at expenditure per year. student. There has also been no tightening of the budget after the reorganisation of the art spheres. Both art spheres have received additional monies, including to strengthen the Joint Administrative Board. The Oslo School of Art is in a difficult economic situation in 1999 because it had a budget deficit in 1998. I have noted the concerns expressed by the theatre education and have expressed the willingness to look into this. Among other things, the Government of the Revised National Budget has proposed a single allocation for specific actions in 1999 and to cover the remaining budget excess over two years. With regard to the future structure and content of theatre training, I would like to point out that the Department has reduced two working groups to give a holistic analysis of the courses of art training from elementary to right-hand education, including theatre education. The working group, which will present its statement on 1 July 1999, has among others: have been mandated to submit proposals for new study models that address the need for basic education and specialisation/in-depth training within the right-hand education. I am sure that the working group will come up with good proposals that can provide the basis for further development of a forward-looking theatrical education.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1822	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am pleased that he will take a closer look at this question. It is important for the development of stage art in this country that we can offer good and stable educational conditions. We should focus more on taking care of and further developing a distinctive Norwegian theatre and stimulating Norwegian drama. Over the past 30 years, preparatory work has been undertaken at regular intervals with a view to establishing a theatrical education also in the West, with special emphasis on nine Norse and dialects. The Ministry of Church and Education made suggestions on this as early as 1970 and 1976, and in NOU 1988:1, stage art, suggestions were made to look at it further. Do the Councils of State see these cultural and educational policy initiatives as a good way to strengthen and further develop the theatrical education in this country? And will he take any initiative to make progress in these plans?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1833	The moments that Folkestad's representative is now taking up are interesting things based on a holistic cultural assessment of our nation. To what extent this has a doctor within the mandate, and to what extent it appears in the announcement we are to receive on 1 July, I will not have said anything about it here and now. But what I want to promise the representative of Folkestad is that I'm going to make sure that there is such a representative hearing of that setting, also in the environment that represents the point of view that she has now referred to, that it will be included in the overall assessment of theatre education in Norway into a new millennium.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1841	‘The Aqua club at Ogna in Rogaland is conducting trial training for young people. Will the Council of State grant exemptions from membership of the Norwegian Motorcycle Association or the Norwegian Automobile Sports Association so that they can conduct this training without such a costly intermediary?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1848	The Department of Transportation is familiar with the Aqua Club at Ogna from the past. The club has applied for a waiver for trial training. The application was rejected by the Directorate of Road Transport, and the rejection was subsequently lodged with the Ministry of Transport. The Ministry rejected the complaint by letter of 17 August 1995. Access to judicial training is regulated in the Code on Organised Motorsports in Closed Areas. Section 1 of the Regulation provides that organised training and racing activities, including: with motor tricycles, must be operated by clubs affiliated to the Norwegian Automobile Association or to the Norwegian Motorcycle Association and in accordance with the rules laid down by these associations. Training under the supervision of experienced and responsible clubs and under a technical regulation ensures that training is carried out in a sound manner. This is important, especially because the regulation allows exercise for practitioners up to 10 years of age. The Directorate-General for Roads may, in exceptional cases, derogate from the provisions of the Regulation — including the provision that organised training and competition with a tricycle shall be provided only for clubs connected to the two federations. No such derogation has yet been granted. When assessing whether to grant a derogation, attention will need to be paid to whether the applicant can demonstrate the same qualifications and equivalent regulations as the Norwegian Automobile Sport Association and the Norwegian Motorcycle Association. In dealing with the complaint from the Aqua Club, the Ministry of Transport, like the Directorate of Road Affairs, stressed the need to monitor both the vehicle and the driver, and that the supervisory work of the Car Authority would need to be significantly increased by amending the restrictive practices in force. The representative Gedrem has previously addressed the issue of exemption for the Aqua Club with the Ministry of Transport. In a letter to the representative of 5 March 1998, the Ministry replied that the same considerations of security and control applied at the time of the appeal proceedings, so that there was no basis for the recasting of the decision. The regulation on organised motorsports in the enclosed area has been given to ensure the control and safety of motorsports. These considerations are so important that the economic considerations of the representative Gedrem can be difficult to establish. I have therefore come to the conclusion that no exemption should be granted from the Aqua Club Regulation and that no reassessment will take place until the Motorsport Code has been reviewed. I can thus inform you that the Ministry of Transport has commissioned the Directorate of Road to carry out a review of the legislation on motorsports. In this context, it will also be assessed which requirements should be set for the organisation of training and competition.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1867	I thank you for your answer. It was relatively negative, but with a positive opening. I have an commitment to this, because there's a high-quality offering for a very important group. It covers stress needs and is a positive leisure activity under socially safe conditions. The Ministry informed me on my request that they would probably have completed the review of the regulation in August 1998. I've given them one more year to prepare this, but per. So the date has not yet been clarified. Today we have a situation where the youth has to pay approx. 400 kroner per month. years. In addition, the club has to pay NOK 4000. It's going to be so expensive that it's hard to get the drive to jump. In this case, the police, the Safer Traffic and the Road Office in Rogaland have supported the exemption application. Everyone has supported it in Rogaland. In my opinion, it is wrong to monopolize the sport on this, because it will have ring-fenced effects: a lot of others will get involved if there is a system, and a lot of good professionals will support it. I hope that the Council of State can give a positive signal when we have a review of the regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1880	As I said in my first answer, the assignment is given to the Road Directorate. However, the Directorate of Roads is under intense pressure because of the work of the National Transport Plan, which the Storting has provided for one year of treatment. However, I would like to give a signal back to the Road Directorate that this matter has been going on for so long that we need to get a clarification on it. If it is not possible to close it in the course of the year and clarify changes to the regulation, it is natural that we consider the options for exemption. Let me again stress that what is important here is control, follow-up and security, and that a significant follow-up responsibility is required for those who are to have control, if this is more or less released freely to non-national organisations that do not have their own control responsibilities. Here it is essential that we not base economic assessments, but control and safety assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1890	I have the following questions for the Minister of Social Affairs: «Of the Chapter of the Alcohol Code. 10 ‘Community Audit Committee’ is stated in Sections 10 to 4: ‘The Administrative Board is responsible for providing the members and inspectors of the Board with the necessary training to carry out their duties’. Will the Council of State see to it that we are in the process of fighting? 12 is incorporated into the regulation that the municipal inspectors must have passed the ‘knowledge test’?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1899	The system of evidence of knowledge was introduced in the alcohol laws in view of the need to increase the level of knowledge of those responsible for halls and denunciations. As the representative Johnsen himself points out, under the laws of alcohol, municipalities are responsible for the necessary training for those who are required to carry out the check on the hall and the donation of alcoholic beverages. I am confident that the municipalities will take this responsibility without further detailed regulation in the law. Therefore, I do not intend to initiate rules to control that municipal inspectors have the necessary knowledge of alcohol laws.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1904	I thank you for the answer, which I was not satisfied with. That's the exact opposite of what the minister says, which is the case. These examiners do not have knowledge. They haven't gotten any knowledge either, so it's about being able to give them knowledge now that we have a test that they can go up to. In the municipality of Sirdal, Securitas was responsible for the control, and there was a case: two places were closed, one week and 14 days respectively. This was up to treatment in the local government, and I must be allowed to refer to: ‘ Rapporteur Torjus Kväven told me that he had stunned as soon as he read the inspection reports. He responded that they seemed both messy and self-contradictory: – I have, among other things, asked myself what kind of schooling the supervisors have that gives them the competence to do this job. It took time to get an answer to this at Securitas. But at last I was told that they have not gone through any specific course, informed the woman." So the municipality had done nothing in this case. This is the problem, Social Minister!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1921	The representative Jan Johnsen used the expression "stuck the opposite", that is, what I said was wrong. I understand from his supplementary questions that the question is not the handling of the law or the understanding of it, but at the level of knowledge of the controllers. I understand from his question that he has more in-depth knowledge of this, for example that knowledge is not satisfying. I haven't had any experience with that. So when the spokesman in Sirdal himself finds out that knowledge is not satisfactory in his municipality, the Storting's intention is that the spokesman in Sirdal should take the necessary action. That's what I'm thinking about.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1931	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘Landsföreningen Rechtfahrt för Taperne is doing an important job of helping and raising awareness of the situation of people who have come into the Norwegian community unluckily. State aid has been granted to the organisation for several years. For 1999, too, the organisation has applied for grants, and it has already received a sub-fund of NOK 250000. How will the Council of State proceed to examine the application for 1999?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1940	I'm told that the National Association Justice for the Tapers is working for a good cause – they're sloppy in our society. I support its goal of improving the living situation of some of those who come to terms with it, and of countering the fact that more people in society get it difficult. From 1994 onwards, the Ministry has paid the National Association Rechtferd for the Taperne, a total of 800 000 for the years 1994-1997. In 1998, the unit received a total of $500,000. I am prepared to make a corresponding contribution for 1999 – something the unit is also oriented about. Half of the deposit, NOK 250 000, was paid by the department’s letter of 30 April 1999, while the remaining DKK 250 000 is usually paid later in the year. Before the last part of the bill can be paid, there must be a budget for the entire period, i.e. for the whole year, and also a report for the first half of 1999. The laureate of the National Association of Tapers has been dealt with in accordance with other applications and in accordance with the Financial Regulation of the State. Let me add that I think it is important to support the union's work, and I want to follow them with interest.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1951	I would like to thank the Social Minister for a positive answer. As the Social Minister said, we're talking about giving financial freedom to an organization that works for a very good cause. The organisation is small, and much of the effort is based on idealism and sacrificing efforts by a few very few people. In the case of government grants from the Ministry of Social Affairs, it is important that the conditions for grants are not too bureaucratic and complicated, which will provide such a small organisation with a lot of work that could have been used for positive work for the benefit of the group of people who have put their trust in the National Association of Rights for the Losers.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1960	I argued that the representative of Nymo stressed the treatment of an application that this is not that the Ministry should deviate from the legislation that we otherwise have to abide by in relation to the Riksrevisionen and also to Stortinget. Let me underline the important work that this organisation is doing, and also the good contact I feel with the department with the organisation. We had a separate meeting at the Christmas Room where a selection was set up to look at how the organisation itself could add up to a more conservative operation and how the department could contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1967	Then we go back to question 19.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1973	This question, from the representative Jan Petter Rasmussen to the Minister of Justice, will be answered by the Minister of Health who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1976	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘6. In March 1998, a unanimous Storting adopted: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and propose ways of avoiding financial links of interest between insurance companies and specialist doctors in connection with personal injury and insurance.’ When will the Government submit proposals in this context?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e1985	In the last few years, the size has taken several decisions related to the issue raised by the representative Rasmussen and related questions. As a result of proposals in Document No. 8:32 for 1996-1997 and the suspension by the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs of 17 April of that year, the Stortinget took the following decisions on 15 May 1997: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess changes in the applicable legislation governing the access of insurance companies to the collection, use and storage of health information and to make proposals accordingly.’; In connection with the treatment of new health professionals by Odelstingen on 22 April 1999, the Government was also asked to submit a document containing these assessments. I have also answered questions in the Questionnaire in January 1998 about the possible regulation of connections between doctor and insurance company. This shows that there is a great deal of interest in an important field in which major and difficult questions of a legal, economic, administrative and ethical nature are raised. I have followed up on the decision to raise this issue on 15 May 1997 by reducing a sample such as: shall assess these issues. The issue raised by the Enlarged Committee Decision of 6 March 1998, to which the representative refers, is included in the mandate of the panel, the selection being assessed: «the practice of insurance companies in the use of an expert doctor in the case of claims for damages, including propose any measures that may strengthen consumer confidence in the form of cooperation between the company and the expert doctor». As regards the composition of the committee, I can inform you that it is led by Professor Dr.jur. Erik Røsæg. It is broadly composed of representatives from patient associations, consumers, the insurance industry, the Medical Association, the Data Protection Agency, the Credit Authority and health authorities. The committee started its work in October 1998, and I expect to receive the nomination for the new year selection in 2000. Then a broad consultation is planned. I consider it likely that the investigation and subsequent consultation round could lead to legislative amendments. I will return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner after the consultation round has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2004	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. In several contexts, this issue has been at issue in Stortinget. We had an interpellation last year where we took care of the full scope of what goes on legal certainty for insurance customers. We know that there has often been a different fight between insurance companies and victims in this type of case. Some pieces begin to fall into place in terms of matters that the Government has come back with to Stortinget. As far as this field is concerned, I am a little surprised by the use of time here, because as early as August 1997, the Minister of Health Gudmund Hernes said in a reply to the Workers' Party that he was appointing this sample to which the Minister of Health refers today. These included: the reason for this interpellation last year, and a unanimous increase, this proposal was adopted. What I want when this is on my legs is the health minister's assurance of the progress of this work, and I would ask him to say a little more about how he thinks this should be done further, and what progress he is making.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2013	I will answer for my own handling of this matter. The complexity of the matter and its many aspects and many parties have committed themselves to a thorough preparation of the selection of samples, the mandate and, above all, the composition. Now the selection is well under way. As mentioned in my main response, I expect to get an adjustment over New Year, and then there will be a three-month consultation round in the usual way. How I will then come back to Stortinget, I will wait to decide until I see the selection proposal. But that I will come back to Stortinget, I will confirm.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2023	‘Does the Council intend to take new initiatives to increase research efforts and attention in relation to diseases affecting women?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2028	The government takes women's health situation seriously. On 28 January of this year, I was handed over the cancellation from the government-appointed Women's Health Committee. It has been sent on a wide-ranging consultation such as NOU 1999: 13 Women's health in Norway, with a deadline of 15 September this year. This approach contains a number of proposals for action in the field of research into women’s diseases, including: strengthening the allocation to the Norwegian Research Council for fundamental research into gender differences in the occurrence, risk and development of disease. In addition, it is proposed to establish its own subject areas for female and gender research at the medical faculty. A number of individual areas where more research is needed have also been proposed. We will carefully consider the follow-up to the proposals of the Women’s Health Committee. The study provides a good basis for overall initiatives in the future. The study also emphasises the need to ensure gender perspective in knowledge that is the basis for decisions in the field of health, social security and social protection. I agree, and we have already started to assess how we can better ensure this in daily practice at different administrative levels. This is also linked to the general equality policy of the Government. With regard to ongoing research on women’s health and diseases and their attention, I would like to highlight the following: in the letter of award to the Norwegian Research Council for the last three years, they have been asked to contribute to the assessment and care of the gender perspective in all areas of activity and programmes covered by the allocations of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. The annual reports have been requested to provide an overall review of activities and results with an impact on women’s health. Several research programmes have projects relevant to women’s diseases. I can mention ‘health and disease in a cultural perspective’ which also includes a partial effort related to understanding and interpreting women’s diseases and a partial effort for research into chronic pain. The «Health at Work» programme comprises several research and intervention projects aimed at public and private service professionals, including: the care sector and the shop churches. This year, particular attention shall be paid to mental and musculo-skeletal disorders from a working environment perspective, which is most relevant in relation to women’s work-related stress diseases. The ‘Prevention health research’ programme includes, inter alia: with a strength of 1,5 million. 1999 for research into bone brittleness. At the same time, the Medical Method Assessment Centres are entrusted with the task of creating a knowledge status for prevention and treatment in this field. It will be available by the end of September. This programme also strengthens efforts in research on eating disorders. I will return to a planned follow-up of the female health investigation after the consultation round has ended. It will also include concrete initiatives in relation to research and awareness-raising activities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2041	I would like to thank the Minister of Health for the comprehensive and, in my opinion, interesting and active response. In my opinion, this is an important aspect in terms of the gender equality debate we have going on, or equivalency between sexes. In my opinion, the results of research into human-dominated diseases have been automatically applied to women for too long. This has led to many unnecessary suffering, misdiagnosis and mistreatment. I hope we can put this stage behind us, and I would like to ask the Minister of Health if, in order to secure a wide range of professional bets on female-related diseases, he will consider getting to a separate department or a private institute to research specifically on the disease that affects women.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2048	The investigation we have received on the table shows that we are facing a long and, I would say, a built-in academic tradition related to discrimination between women and men in the healthcare system. This image will take some time to change. But I think that just focusing on research and the facility of research is an important tool, and the proposals that have been promoted in this way will be considered in the follow-up to this investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2056	I would like to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The EU EURATOM Directive has been adopted and is to be implemented in the Member States by the year 2000. Through the EEA Agreement, we may be forced to receive goods with low-radioactive content, which the EU defines as non-active material. There are, as is known, different hazards associated with radioactivity, including an increased risk of cancer, and the precautionary principle is broken. How does the EURATOM Council assess the impact on Norwegian consumers and, where appropriate, consider measures to prevent imports of radioactive products?’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2065	Council Directive 96/29/Euratom, to which the representative of Langeland refers, lays down basic safety standards for the protection of the population and workers against ionising radiation. This Directive has been adopted in accordance with the Euratom Treaty, which is not part of the EEA Agreement. It is therefore not appropriate to include the Directive in the EEA Agreement. I refer you to the answer the Minister for Foreign Affairs gave to the representative of Langeland in the Question Time on 26 May this year on this point. Nevertheless, the principle of free movement of goods in the EEA territory will also apply to goods regulated by EURATOM legislation. In most countries radiation protection is regulated by national legislation and in the EU directives have been implemented to harmonise the laws of the Member States. The first Directive was introduced in 1959 and has been revised and developed several times. The principles of radiation protection on which the Council Directive is based are largely developed through international cooperation by the International Commission for Radiation Protection, the ICRP. These principles have been developed over a long period of time since 1928 and have been revised as new knowledge of the effects of radiation has emerged. The effects of radiation must be said to be well-monitored, and the principles therefore go beyond a precautionary principle. The supply of straw in the Council Directive is based on three basic principles: 1st@item: inlistbox Any use of radiation shall be justified. This means that it is necessary to demonstrate a net useful value for the use of sources of radiation.2. The straw delivery shall be optimised. In practice, this means that when radiation is used, doses shall be the lowest possible taking into account economic and social conditions.3. Dose limits must be observed. Dose limits are based on the recognition that radiation poses a certain risk and reflect the risk considered acceptable. I cannot see that Council Directive 96/29/EURATOM will have special new consequences for Norwegian consumers, except that radiation protection will generally be better for both products and services where radiation sources are used. The reason for this is that the most recent Directive is both restrictive in terms of management and dose limits compared to the previous Directive. However, if a product were to be placed on the EU market which the Norwegian authorities consider to be harmful to health, in accordance with Article 13 of the EEA Agreement, Norway will be able to prohibit the product on the grounds of life and health. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is now finishing work on a new law on radiation protection and the use of radiation. The law will allow for the establishment of authorisation schemes and dose limits similar to those laid down in the Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2090	I thank the Council of State for your answer. As the Council of State correctly points out, I raised this in the previous Question Time in a question to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. And that is precisely why it was necessary to ask the Minister of Health an additional question, because the principle of free flow applies under the EEA Agreement. Now I understand the Minister of Health so that he and the Government are on guard against any consequences of this directive and will perhaps come back with the necessary measures, as I interpret it. In an additional question relating to radioactivity and irradiation, let me ask the Council of State whether his department will make assessments in relation to the irradiation directive on the road, which is applicable to food – a user in relation to salmonella in chicken in France.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2101	I note that here we are facing a directive, adopted in accordance with the Euratom Treaty, which, as we can assess it, will actually act intensifies both in terms of management and dose limits in relation to the current directive. We will actively use our legislation as it provides the basis for today, and as it will provide the basis for when we get the new Radiation Protection Act in place. On the issue of the second directive, which the representative of Langeland is now travelling, there is another question that I will have to get back to. What I want to say in general is that we are following developments in these areas carefully. I will not, without having looked into it, be able to respond more specifically to this specific directive.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2111	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘A superior at Bærum Hospital has been reported to the police by a colleague for carrying out active death aid. The State Health Authority has ‘released’ superiors based on the expert opinion of a close friend of the superiors. Do the Council of State agree that the proceedings of the Health Authority in this case are highly critical?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2120	As Minister of Health, I react seriously to information that has emerged in the media in the case in question. I have therefore asked the Health Authority for an explanation of the procedure in general, and the appointment of an expert in particular. I would like to stress that the Health Authority has not assessed the matter in question in relation to criminal law, but only as a supervisory authority in relation to health law. As the case was considered to affect a possible continuing irresponsible business at Bærum Hospital, the case was decided by the Health Authority without waiting for the police to conclude the case. I consider this to be in line with the duties of the Health Authority as a Supervisory Authority. Questions have been raised about the appointment of an expert by the Health Authority in relation to his/her capacity and relationship with the notified superior. In the light of the preliminary statement and the documentation received from the Health Authority in connection with this question-time issue, there is no basis to assume that the expert nominated and the notified superior are close personal friends. On the other hand, what is important to clarify in this case is whether the Health Authority should have asked for an expert opinion from elsewhere, for example. from abroad, as the trade union environment in palliative medicine is low in Norway. The question of trust in the ability of experts can therefore be quickly updated. The ministry has agreed to go into the matter more thoroughly than has been possible prior to this questioning. Among other things, there is a need to obtain further information from the Health Authority. At this stage, I can neither, nor will, give any conclusion on the quality of the procedure of the Health Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2129	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. I very much appreciate the fact that the Minister of Health immediately responded to the matter when it became known in the media. I hope that the police investigation that is in progress will result in prosecution, unless I am afraid that we are in danger of losing our lives in active death aid in our public hospital under the cover of pain treatment. At my discretion, questions must be raised in the case-law of the Health Authority in this case. This applies not least to the appointment of an expert, who is a friend and colleague of the superior. I also react strongly to the fact that the medication of this patient has taken place from Rome, and not in the hospital itself, and that that medication has been in progress for several days without the superior having seen the patient. My follow-up question to the Minister of Health will be: Will the Minister of Health instruct the State Health Authority to re-examine the matter, and then with an uninhibited foreign expert, as two foreign experts have spoken negatively in relation to the conduct of the superior?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2140	The representative of Alvheim will be aware that the health minister and he himself have the same restrictive and negative view of active death aid. What I have to ask for respect in this matter is that I have taken the initiative to get a thorough statement from the Health Inspectorate, and that in the middle of the discussion of the matter I cannot give a characterizing opinion on the Health Authority's proceedings, unless I conclude in relation to it. But the questions raised by the representative Alvheim will, of course, be part of the assessment that the ministry will have to do once you have asked for an explanation of such a case.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2150	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: «Wages and salaries II Committee presented NOU 1997:18 Re-priority. The debate on health priorities has not become less topical, due to the fact that medical-technological development and increased expectations of health services' services are rife. This raises difficult questions about the health services to be provided by the public and what people have to pay for themselves. How will the Council of States follow up NOW 1997:18?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2159	Let me first say that the setting of the sample is a very important document, which has been premissive of several of the health reforms we are in the process of implementing. Firstly, today’s regulation on the waiting time guarantee is largely based on the work of the sample. Secondly, the sample pointed to weaknesses in today’s priorities and prioritisation system, which have been followed up on several points by concrete actions. Thirdly, the sample presented proposals for new degrees of priority beyond the current waiting time guarantee. So far, the suspension of the Wage II Committee has been an important premise for the design of the main criteria for the award of a waiting period guarantee under Section 8 of the Regulation. This approach has also been important in the work on the Patient Rights Act, Ot.prp. No 12 for 1998-99, which is now being treated by the Grand Duchy. The Wage II Committee’s reference to the lack of priority for people with mental and chronic disorders has been followed up by the Roadmap for Mental Health and the Communication on Rehabilitation. The appointment of staff shortages by the Wage II Committee is followed up by a separate action plan for health professionals and by the new council for specialist training and distribution of doctors. As the legal and economic framework for healthcare comes into place, the Ministry will continue to address the major priority challenges raised by the Wage II Committee. In concrete terms, the Ministry is now working on a follow-up to these issues in the context of the Storing Communication on the value base for healthcare. The notification shall be submitted to the Size at the end of the year. I have seen it as important to see the concrete arrangements we have for priority in the healthcare system, in the context of an assessment of the key values on which the Norwegian healthcare system is to be based. I believe that this is essential if we are to get a good basis for decisions, for example. on the gap between expectations and opportunities and the limits of public funding, as used by the representative of Høegh as an example in his question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2170	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I see as far on the way to being positive. However, I have to say that we on the Right have been somewhat surprised that the concrete proposals – as other representatives from the Right will address the following issues – with which the Wage II Committee has come forward, have not been more specific, for example. in the Patient Rights Act, which we now have to deal with. I would suggest that, on the basis of the priorities proposed by the Wage II Committee, we will promote a proposal for the right to individual treatment, and there may well be points that indicate that a majority in the Grand Duchy will also propose some form of health care entitlement. I would like to ask the Minister of Health if he does not see that the very starting point set by the Wage II Committee will be a good and safe model for a better prioritisation and in order to give patients a right to treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2179	I agree that the issue of patient rights and priorities belongs closely to each other, and I believe that in our work on the Patient Rights Act we have had with us the proposals and recommendations of the Wage II Committee. The representative of Hoegh now raises questions about, is directly involved in the consideration of a proposal I have promoted for the Storting and is now in progress. I don't think it's right here and now to go into that discussion, but I just want to say that my intention with the Patient Rights Act has been to strengthen patients' rights in a way that is feasible today, and that at the same time makes it possible to ensure the overall and political priority of the healthcare system that we also need to have room for. Then the further consideration of this matter will determine how far we agree.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2190	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The Wage II Committee discusses criteria for prioritisation and proposes to distinguish between basic, complementary and low priority health services and those which are not to be financed by the public. Will the Council of State follow up the proposal of the Wage Committee II to establish representative professional groups appointed by the State Health Authority and to make recommendations on priorities within its own field of competence?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2199	As mentioned earlier, the setting up of the Wage II Committee is an important document for the Ministry’s work on health reforms. The current regulation on the waiting time guarantee is largely based on the work of the sample, and the suspension of the Wage II Committee has been an important premise for the design of the main criteria for the award of the waiting time guarantee under the regulation § 8. In the consultation note on the waiting period, reference was made to the proposal of the Wage Committee II to establish representative trade unions to rank or classify conditions and actions in different priority groups. A majority of the hearing bodies agreed that the criteria for the granting of a waiting time guarantee should be improved, but considered that the process of developing new criteria would be long-lasting, estimated one to two years. In line with the Storting decision, the Ministry assessed the need to establish a better functioning three-month waiting period guarantee which did not provide for a one- to two-year deferral due to peer reviews. As a result, the new waiting period was put into effect without such a prior process. At the same time, the Ministry considers that the practice of the regulation must be based on medical judgement. Consensus in the medical disciplines is important in order to ensure equal treatment for patients. The Ministry has therefore entered into cooperation with the Norwegian Medical Association and the State Health Authority in order to involve the medical professional community in a discussion on the criteria for granting a guarantee. In today’s situation, when the new Patient Rights Act awaits final treatment in the Storting, it is natural to await the final decision of the Stortingen before going further in this process. When the legal basis for healthcare is soon in place, as I mentioned earlier today, we will follow up on the work of the Wage II Committee. This will primarily be done through the Health 2000 Storing Communication, which will be presented to the Storing at the end of this year. The proposal on professional groups will be addressed in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2212	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am pleased that the Minister of Health and I have the same understanding of the importance that priorities need to be based on medical judgement. The aim of these groups is not only to produce unilateral recommendations that are fully agreed among professionals, but also to provide alternative options and recommendations on clinical priorities. This is essential for us as politicians to be able to make the important and correct decisions on resources and capacity for the different groups of patients. Lack of priorities gives random priorities. It does not guarantee equal rights to treatment, and it will affect patients. Guidelines for the selection of patients for proper treatment in time are, in my opinion, important and necessary, and I think this is also a cross-political agreement. I understand that the Health Minister will await the treatment of the Patient Rights Act, but such disciplines and their importance for important priorities must be able to have an opinion on.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2226	That's what Stortinget is going to get in the big message that I'm now working on. In general, I would like to say that I fully share the position now expressed by the representative, Mr Sjéli, that it is important to develop the priorities as well as the basis for making political choices. Priorities take place every day in the Norwegian health system, but too few of these priorities have been developed openly and discussed in a democratic context, and I believe that the Wage II Committee has provided us with a basis for doing so to an even greater extent than what we have the power to do now. I hope that this big message will contribute to this, and then we will have plenty of opportunity for an exchange of views on the role of these groups as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2236	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: «NOU 1997:18 Prioritisation once again proposed to establish an independent and multidisciplinaryly composed permanent sample for the priority between patient groups. The Minister for Health has indicated that such a sample may be appropriate but that it should not be established until the mandate and connection to health care and administration have been clarified. Will the Council of State take the initiative in clarifying mandates and links, with a view to making proposals for the Grand Duchy to set up such a priority committee?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2245	Health services have a major challenge in clarifying expectations and ensuring a good anchoring of the priorities made. The setting-up of the Employment II Committee provides a very important basis for an open debate on the choice of values and priorities in healthcare and on the procedures for doing so. As mentioned, the suspension of the Wage II Committee has been an important document in the Ministry’s work on creating a timely, appropriate legal and economic framework for healthcare. When the legal and economic framework is gradually put in place, the Ministry will work on the important priority challenges that have been highlighted in the position. With regard to the proposal to establish an independent and multidisciplinaryly structured permanent sample for priority among patient groups, it is right that I have indicated that such a priority sample may be appropriate. This is one of several issues related to concrete health prioritisation schemes that will be addressed in the Health Care paper on health value values planned to be promoted at the end of this year. My aim is that the political clarification that the representative calls for is to be included in this communication, and I have already taken that initiative. I would also like to point out that the State Hospital Council has a mandate to advise on priority issues. The Hospital Council has also expressed itself on specific issues such as: as regards priority, on the initiative of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2258	I thank the Minister of Health for a positive response. At the same time, I will not fail to note that the answer to both this question and the previous two illustrates that our Norwegian system does not work adventurously quickly. It has been quite exactly two years since this setting was presented, and it has been about done. a year and a half since the end of the consultation round, and it must be said to be fairly liberal. On the other hand, someone who is waiting for something good may not wait in vain, even if it takes a long time. I would like to express the hope that the said big message can provide the Stortinget with a basis for evaluating both the questions that have now been raised in the Questionnaire and a number of other concrete proposals that are in the vote, including the following. proposals for identifying and putting into service classified components of the healthcare system as a priority instrument. And I would be happy if the Minister of Health could confirm that this question will also be highlighted in the communication.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2265	First of all, the little criticism that the Representative for Wage is now targeting the Minister of Health and the Department of Curiosity. I could probably accept it if the investigation had been in a drawer and had not been used in any of the department's activities in the year and a half that has gone on since the hearing was concluded. However, as I have pointed out in the three previous answers, the setting has actually been used both in the design of regulations relating to the waiting time guarantee and in the design of the psychiatry plan, the rehabilitation message and the patient rights law. So it hasn't at all been a passive document lying on ice, it's actually been actively used. But the whole follow-up will come in the big message that I have now repeatedly announced, and the question from the Wage II Committee that goes on graduated merits is part of such a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2270	The President will now return to questions 3 and 8.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2276	This question, from the representative of Thore Aksel Nistad to the Minister for Culture, will be raised by the representative of Fredrik Färber. The question will be answered by the Minister for the Environment, who will address it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2279	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: «I St.meld. No 61 [[1991-92]] Will the Council of State in the next budget help, so that the boat can be preserved afterwards?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2288	‘Skibladner’ is one of the country’s most important ships for protection. It is one of 162 older ships with protection status and which receive State support for maintenance according to antique principles. The vessel is therefore a priority conservation object and has received funds over the budget of the Riksantikvaren for a number of years – a total of over 10 million. kr. This, in turn, has contributed to ensuring the revenue of ‘Skiblads’. Within ship protection, primary responsibility for the protection authorities is to contribute to professionally sound anti-quarian maintenance and to keep ships in service. Ordinary maintenance, storage, etc. is primarily a responsibility of the individual owner. These are principles that must initially be taken into account also in the case of ‘Skiblads’. The owners and ‘friends’ of ‘Skibladner’ have for a number of years made a great and important effort to protect the boat. This effort has been essential for us today to have ‘Skibladner’ floating and operating. Nor does the Ministry of the Environment have any difficulty in seeing the need for, and the importance of, good solutions for winter storage for «Skibladner». I also see that a ship like “Skibladner” faces specific challenges with regard to suitable winter storage. But I believe, as I said, that this is primarily a responsibility for the owners, in line with what is the case for the other protective vessels. ‘Skibladner’ is an attraction that attracts many tourists to the Mjø area. I therefore also assume that there will be a local and regional interest in contributing to a good solution for ‘Skibladner’. Having said that, I would also like to add that the Ministry does not know the specific details of a possible ‘Skibladner’ protection building and the other actors involved in the project as sources of funding. I therefore find it difficult to comment on the question of any state involvement in such a project more concrete and would stress that when I do not over the table, or from the Spokesman's Chair, secrets reveal about next year's budget, it is not because I have something special against the questioner – but I cannot do so.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2299	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I would like to note that Norway's oldest wheeled boat in operation has sunk on two previous occasions: in 1937 and in 1967. I would therefore once again like to ask the Minister for the Environment a question: if she learns about the projects already planned for winter storage for "Skibladner", will she then be positive about taking national responsibility and protecting "Skibladner" and thus building a "Skibladner" house?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2306	There is no doubt that there is a very serious situation when «Skibladner» has sunk twice before. That's also why the Riksantikvaren has been responsible consciously and on a number of occasions, with funds totalling 10 million. kr to prevent any such thing from happening again. When it comes to the question of whether we can advance a possible request for money to a warehouse, I would not be able to say anything about it in this additional response. What I want to say is that «Skibladner», along with a number of other old ships, is an important part of our cultural heritage, and that it is a shared responsibility to take care of them. It is also a common challenge to find good solutions to other practical problems, such as: have been made by granting ‘Skibladner’ dispensation in relation to being able to discharge sewage, because we see that it is difficult to install an approved sewage collection system on such an old ship. But again, we would like to return to the question of a storage building without prioritising the proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2320	This question, from the representative of Arvid Falch to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be raised by the representative of Steinar Bastesen. The question will be answered by the Minister for the Environment, who will address it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2323	I have the following questions for the Minister for the Environment: ‘I refer to previous questions in the April 1998 Question Time and oral Question Time on 16 December 1998 and 11 May 1999 on oil protection at Nornefeld. Statoil has applied for the demobilisation of the towing vessel and would replace it with its own boat. In the November 3, 1998, test, this boat sank. This proves that demobilization goes beyond preparedness. Is the permanently stationed towing vessel demobilised and what oil protection is now available on the Nornefield?’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2332	After I have been informed by the SFT, the permanently stationed towing vessel on Norne is not demobilised. The requirement for emergency response on Norne has always been that there should be a fixed oil recording system in the field. A recording system consists of lenses, recordings and towing function. Statoil has chosen to solve the towing function by placing a small towing vessel on board the standby vessel stationary in the field. This emergency vessel also has onboard bilges and recordings. In November 1996, Statoil was required to dispose of an additional temporary recording system on Norne because there were no satisfactory functional tests of the recording system they had. In the autumn of 1998, Statoil took up the possibility of demobilising the additional temporary recording system. The SFT approved the demobilisation of the recording system, but not of the tugboat before the satisfactory test result of the towing vessel located on board the stationary emergency vessel was available. After this towing vessel sank during the test, Statoil has acquired a new larger towing vessel. The SFT has required the operation and design of this vessel. The SFT has received a report from Statoil showing how the newly acquired towing vessel was modified in order to best meet the requirements of the ship. At the same time, Statoil informed that the additional towing vessel was being demobilised and that the ordinary vessel was now in operation. This has been taken into account by the SFT. This means that the fixed towing vessel on the Norne is still on board the emergency vessel, but this towing vessel is therefore of a different and improved type than originally.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2343	I now understand that the question was answered by the wrong government council anyway. What I want to get ready for is what kind of towing vessel there is in the Norne field, and whether that towing vessel has been tested in bad weather, for the towing vessel that they had, sadly in what I would call ‘blank still’. I'm a seaman, so I'm able to assess the weather. I have still not received a reply as to the type of vessel to be used to draw bilges. Now the fourth time I'm asking, and it's impossible to get a reasonable and proper answer. A boat that hangs in a davit on a stationed vessel is useless to drag bilges out into the Norwegian Sea. It is a scandal if this towing vessel hangs in the davit on board another boat. Is oil preparedness equally poor on the other platforms in the Norwegian zone?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2352	I am afraid the representative of Bastesen will find that it is the Minister for the Environment who is rightly addressing issues relating to oil protection. The question was whether the stationary towing vessel was demobilised, and what kind of oil protection equipment is now available on the Norne field. I believe that I gave a good answer in my first answer. I also think that I found relatively clearly that the towing vessel that is now in use is not the same type as the one that sank, but a new and improved type. So SFT's assessment is that the oil protection device that is now in the Norne field is satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2361	Then we go to question 38.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2367	I have the following questions for the Minister for the Environment: «The company Applied Plasma Physics in Stavanger, which today provides industrial dust treatment systems, has designed a scaled-down system that will be able to remove 90 pst. of the dust emissions from ordinary pipes. Can the Council of State look at the possibility of supporting the launch of a full-scale project at Grünerløkka in Oslo to document the environmental improvements in the urban district?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2376	Dust emissions from road traffic and refuelling result in poor air quality in cities and agglomerations and lead to serious health damage. The Government has therefore adopted ambitious air quality objectives. It is estimated that once the particulate target is reached, this will result in an annual health benefit only in Oslo of DKK 1.5 billion. An inter-ministerial working group is now examining the most cost-effective measures to reduce, among other things, the emissions of particulate matter. In order to achieve the objective of improving air quality, emissions of particulate matter from both road traffic and refuelling need to be significantly reduced. The dust emissions from refuelling can be reduced by switching from refuelling to refuelling, for example. district heating, by replacing older wood stoves with new, clean-burning wood stoves or by cleaning the emissions. The company Applied Plasma Physics AS, APP, has designed a “cleansing hat” that reduces dust emissions from refuelling. The company claims to be able to achieve a cleaning level of 80-90 pst. of the dust emissions. This is very interesting. Following a request from the APP, the State pollution authorities have favoured contributing to the financing of product testing to demonstrate the effectiveness of the technology. I am aware that APP has been in contact with, among others. Oslo Municipality to look at the possibility of full-scale testing of the product. Dust emissions are a local environmental problem. The practical solutions for their reduction should therefore be adapted to local conditions. The full-scale use of APP technology should therefore be done in cooperation with local authorities. In the future, I would like to assess whether new instruments should be given to municipalities to reduce emissions of particulate matter from refuelling.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2389	I thank you for the answer, which I thought was positive. According to government statistics, Statistics Central Bureau and the State Institute for Public Health, heating of houses by oil generates 50 pst. by the suspended particulate matter measured in weight, i.e. more than all car traffic combined. In addition, the suspended particulate matter from wood and oil firing has a higher level of fine particulate matter, which is considered to be the most harmful to health because it needs to be deeper into the lungs. Measured in number of particles is heating etc. probably for almost 80 pst. of the dust in Oslo. Will the Ministry of the Environment at the Council of State go into cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo, so that we can get a full-scale test here, when it has the enormous efficiency that we are talking about here? Oslo is the only city in Norway where there are real problems in winter. These are problems in other cities too, but not as big as the Oslo have. So here we can have a great opportunity, Minister – or President!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2398	I think we'll forgive the representative Johnsen that he was a little quick to address the question when, after all, he's engaged in such an important issue as air quality. I said in my first answer that the SFT has already taken a positive view of testing this technology. But I think if we're going to get a full-scale test, it's also important to have a cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo. I think you need to have a cooperation with both the state and the city to get this done. Unfortunately, in addition to particulate matter, there are also a number of other substances that affect air quality. That's why I think cleaning wood stoves doesn't solve all of the air quality problems. Obviously, we also have to look at car traffic. But in relation to the problems of particulate matter, there is no doubt that this is a very important tool. I am therefore very positive that this technology is being tested, and I will contribute both through the SFT and through contact with the Municipality of Oslo that this can happen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2410	I have the following questions for the Minister for the Environment: ‘The Ministry of the Environment’s enhanced flight noise guidelines for Bodø are in the process of humiliating urban development and will affect many thousands of inhabitants. With reduced aircraft noise, the municipality wants a more dense and compact development. The Ministry’s guidelines will lead to greater distances between housing and work, with increased car use and greater pressure on cultivated land, including the Rønvik soils, as a result. Could the Council of State support the practice of the guidelines which are in line with the wishes of the Municipality of Bodø?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2419	The Ministry of the Environment has recently issued new guidelines on land use in noise zones. Under these guidelines, the municipality should not permit the establishment of new dwellings on the most noisy areas around airports. These are national guidelines, because noise is a major problem for several hundred thousand people and aircraft noise specifically for several tens of thousands of people. It has therefore been important to put in place guidelines to reduce this burden for many people. At the same time, it has always been clear that the municipality of Bodø would be in a special situation as large parts of the built-up and habitable areas lie within the noise zones. Therefore, there is reason to derogate from the guidelines in this case. In assessing such a derogation, the distance between residential areas and the centre and the consideration of congestion near traffic nodal points will be important elements. Let me make it clear that when these guidelines went away from me, it was the Council of State that took the initiative to incorporate an exception, because although it is important to put the regulations in place nationally, it is also important to be able to allow for exceptions based on local considerations, where different environmental policy objectives conflict. That is why we got an exception in place, and now I assume that the county council in Nordland and Bodø Municipality will agree on the practice of the Bodø guidelines in the process that has been initiated as a result of Bodø Municipality's wish to allow housing in the most noisy areas. Should not that happen, the matter will eventually end up on my table. But it is my clear wish and my clear hope that we will agree on this locally. I've come from the media, among others. in Tromsø, have been asked to provide state guidelines for the exemptions, and then I must say that, as the exemptions are to be localised, the exemptions should be defined from local level. It would be pointless if the State Council and the Ministry of Environmental Protection were to sit in Oslo and lay down detailed rules for exceptions in Bodø.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2430	I think I have to allow myself to stretch so far as to say that I am very pleased with the Council's response. That means that Bodøs residents, who have been putting pressure on aircraft noise for years, can now see that they are free to get a new additional load, which reduces the value of the properties and also causes urban development to be set back years. Overall, it's the environment that's going to benefit from this. I then settle down that the Council of State gives a promise that if the county council in Northern Ireland is not able to sort this out and ensure that you come in line with the wishes and decisions of the Municipality of Bodø, then the Council of State is going to intervene in the matter, and I think there are very many, in addition to me, who have reason to be satisfied with it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2437	I have to say that I think it is nice that someone who has almost been a member of the community is satisfied with the Council of State's response. I must again stress that the trouble that has been in Bodø lately has surprised me a little, because if you look at the guidelines, there are two things that are new. One is that you've changed something about the noise zones. The second is that there is an opportunity for an exception based on local circumstances, and I will not hide that exception for Bodø, which is in a very special situation. I therefore hope that I will not ‘interact’ in a process. I believe and hope and believe that we get the best result if the design of the exemption comes from local teams and in cooperation between the municipality and the county council.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2446	The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is soon to come. The President proposes that negotiations be continued until the current map is finalised – and considered adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2452	This question, from the representative of Øystein Hedstrom to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment, who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2455	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment: ‘A married couple owns empty rubble. 66 bn 639, Slevik, municipality of Onsøy, Fredrikstad, which was cleared for residential use. Before the house was ready for construction, the plot was converted into an LNF area in the municipality's spatial plan. [[agriculture, nature and open air]] The landlord family bought for hundreds of thousands of dollars is now worthless to the owners because it is refused to be built. Does the Council of State feel that the family is entitled to compensation?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2464	The plot mentioned by the representative Hedstrøm in his question is in the area part of the municipal plan for Fredrikstad outsourced to the LNF area, so-called agricultural, nature and open-air area. This means that the land can initially only be built with agricultural buildings. Derogations may be granted by way of derogation from the plan. Such a derogation is requested here, but it is refused by the municipality. The municipality's refusal has been appealed against, and the case is currently pending at the County Council in Eastfold. The State shall assess, during its treatment, whether there are particular grounds for granting a derogation. As the matter is a matter of complaint with the county councillor, the Minister for the Environment does not find it appropriate to examine the reality of the matter. In general, under the law in force, there is no liability for municipalities in the event of planning changes, except in exceptional cases. It will be for the courts to decide on any question of compensation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2477	I thank the Council of State for the answer. What this is about is a little pleasant story for the Ronny and Siw Ørebeck families, who have to strive to establish their own home. The plot, which has been cleared in writing for residential property, gets a completely different and lower value when the municipality changes plan status. It means a huge economic loss. In this connection, I quote from the Basic Law § 105: "If the State's debt requires any person to give up his movable or immovable property for public use, he should receive full compensation from the State Treasury." Nevertheless, the Council of State confirms that municipalities generally do not have civil liability. I would say that in 1814 there were 112 men on Eidsvoll and passed the Norwegian Constitution, and at that time theft of another man's property was a simple crime. So now at least the Progress Party should look at this again, so that we get a system in line with the opinion of the Owners.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2489	The representative Hedstrøm is right that the area had previously been laid out for the building area of the dwelling, but there was no building permit for the dwelling. It is also the case that, following the merger of the municipalities between Onsøy and Fredrikstad, the plot was put into a new municipal plan for Fredrikstad, adopted on 18 June 1997, for agricultural, natural and outdoor purposes. The process around a municipal plan is democratic, and I think you should be careful to drag such a process as far as the representative Hedstrom here did. As I said in my first answer, I will not foreshadow whether or not this comes under compensation, it may be up to a court to decide. But I think the municipality here is on relatively safe ground, even in relation to the owners.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2499	This question, from the representative of Torbjørn Andersen to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2502	I will be asked the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs – who, because of the circumstances, is answered by the Minister for the Environment: ‘In the Fyresdal in Telemark, a large farm shall be divided into many small farms. Small farms are to be offered for sale in order to strengthen settlements in the countryside. Significant interest has been shown in this project. Does the Council of State consider this to be a new form of district policy that can increase the interest of the countryside and of which we can expect more similar examples in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2511	In the district and regional policy statement of the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, held in Stockholm on 20 April 1999, it was stated that we are now doing a good job of our district policy restructuring and new approaches to district policy. An important part of this work is the increase in the right of persons to action. In particular, efforts aimed at young people, women and relocating are important. Many young people move to the central strata to get higher education, but too few come back. Many realize that districts represent quality of life and opportunities for a good life that is most forward-looking to take care of. But there are many fences to put this into practice. We are now doing something about this in many fields. I believe that projects of the nature planned in Fyresdal could contribute to increased interest in the countryside. Such an offer that Fyresdal will make represents, in my opinion, important scarcely attractive resources for young people at the start-up stage. This project can therefore be a good example of measures that could affect the relocation of this group. There may be several examples of different types of action to exploit this interest from young people. No specific involvement of the departments has yet been decided. A natural follow-up from the central team may be a meeting/hearing with the different parties to the project, both the municipality and other stakeholders. The wide range of examples of personalised actions will be considered in the context of the next district notification in spring 2001, as a basis for refocusing rural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2520	I thank the Council of State so much for the answer, and understand that the Government is interested in notifying new approaches to district policy. In fact, I am quite pleased that it is now announced from the Government that it is willing to adopt a somewhat more nuanced approach to the current Norwegian agricultural and district policy. So I thought it was nice and encouraging to get this answer. The idea that has been launched on the basis of this new builder project in Fyresdal is, in my view, very interesting, at least if you want to help reverse this movement flow from the countryside to which we have witnessed. This is where the Council of State is going, and she will now try to open up the districts to new residents instead of shutting them down, as the current agricultural policy has partly contributed to. But could the Council of State respond a little more to what I asked for: Can we wait for a few more similar projects, i.e. after a copy of what is happening in Fyresdal – according to the Fyresdal model? Does the government have plans for any similar projects, and does it think that the idea is so good that it is worth following it on up and copying it?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2529	I believe that both the representative and I agree that there is a problem in many communities that it is difficult for young people to access properties and use. That's why we think this example from Fyresdal is as good as it is. When the representative asks if we can expect similar examples in the future, I would say that it is to a large extent up to the municipalities and communities themselves, because these are initiatives that I think it's best from below, and that shouldn't be pulled down on people's heads. But if there are similar projects, I think the government's handling of this matter gives signals that we're not interested in putting blocks in the way of corresponding creativity in other communities. Then we get back to a more thorough review of the matter in the communication that comes in the spring of 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2536	Case No. 1 on the current map has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-02.ana.ud176e2545	There is no record.
