ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower.ana.ud1373e107	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today and tomorrow – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower.ana.ud1373e112	I'd like to suggest Tore Nordtun.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower.ana.ud1373e117	Tore Nordtun has been proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Tore Nordtun is unanimously elected president of today’s and tomorrow’s meetings. The representative, Karin Andersen, wants to make a private bill.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower.ana.ud1373e122	On behalf of the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo and myself, I would like to make a proposal to amend Section 55 A of the Law of 4 February 1977 No. 4 on the protection of workers and the working environment, etc., so as to prohibit discrimination against people with disabilities in the event of employment, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower.ana.ud1373e127	Sylvia Brustad wants to make a private bill.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower.ana.ud1373e130	On behalf of the representatives of Olaf Gedrem, Torbjørn Andersen, Erna Solberg, Inga Kvalbukt, Karin Andersen, Leif Helge Kongshaug and myself, I would like to propose amendments to Law No. 7 July 1967. 13 on rental regulations, etc. for dwellings.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower.ana.ud1373e135	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 15, Unit, be dealt with as the first case in today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower.ana.ud1373e227	At the request of the family, cultural and administrative committees, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups: the working party 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower.ana.ud1373e234	The changes to be made are due to the earlier adoption of the EU television directive. On the whole, the Committee agrees unanimously with the Government's proposal, but the Progress Party has several proposals to renegotiate parts of the directive that I believe they will present themselves. What is interesting is that the Progress Party is actually vetoing the EEA Directive. Let me also point out that the Committee has had little time to deal with this matter – with clear indications that it had to be adopted before the New Year. It has therefore not been possible to take the necessary time to deal with such a major issue, as the Committee would have liked. This is therefore a call, almost a call for the Government to come to Stortinget with matters earlier, so that the deadline for implementation does not prevent democratic and good handling of cases. In the context of this proposition, rules are now in place which also make self-promotion in broadcasters an advertising activity. For our commercial channels, it does not have the great practical consequences, except that they normally have to deal with the Norwegian advertising rules. It means weighing and assessing how much is to be sent and when to send. However, the Committee is aware that for the NRC this may be a problem as long as advertising for its own programmes is not allowed. Therefore, the Committee has taken the view that there must be a broad interpretation of the exceptions made. This applies primarily to the mention of programmes coming, or so-called programme trailers. The Committee also notes that information to viewers on teaching materials and the like. which may be acquired in connection with, for example: educational programmes must not be subject to such rules. The location of a broadcaster and the rights of a country to broadcasters abroad are also clarified. Intervention shall be possible if a channel is established in a country, for example: England, and sends to another country, such as Norway, to circumvent advertising rules in Norway. This is the case in Norway today, and it helps to weaken the base of the broadcasters who are here and who adhere to our Norwegian rules. That is why there is now hope that the Department can take initiatives towards the UK authorities so that we get TV3 to follow the Norwegian advertising rules. So to the most mentioned and perhaps most controversial point, the relationship to especially important events. For the first time, there has been talk of ensuring that part of the major sporting events, such as the Olympics, the World Cup and the European Championships in football and handballs and similar events, are secured to all viewers. In practice, they have to be sent on NRK and TV2. We have the opportunity to follow the EU directive. And because it concerns the whole of the European Union, it can also be effective. Now it is not decided whether to introduce such a scheme in Norway, but I would like to stress that we would in any case have an obligation to secure the lists of other countries if there are events in Norway on the lists of other countries. The government is given the opportunity to establish such a list, and in the interest of the public, it is clear that it would be appropriate to ensure that viewers have access to certain national events. This is a job the ministry may have to do in collaboration with the rightholders, who will often be sports federations, and the broadcasters. Yesterday evening, football president Omdal was out and told of his counter-representations against this directive. In his view, it is against two principles: the ability of sport to make money and the ability of the public broadcaster to show programmes for an entire population. People are concerned with sports, and it is important that common experiences are given to everyone. The sport will always be dependent on selling their rights so that they earn money. They are afraid that the market price is difficult to determine, so that they will lose money on it, and they are also afraid that competition between the different channels will not become real. There has been an opportunity for change from the Government, and the Ownership Authority should be in charge of this, or perhaps we should say, a judgment in the sports language. But if there is no agreement between the parties about the price, the court will intervene. In recent years, sport has sold its rights to the major channels. But those of us who have experienced that big sports competitions have gone on TV3 or on pay TV without us having the opportunity to see them, think that such a list should come. Development of payment channels, I think, is something we're going to see in the future, and that means that we're going to guarantee sports rights, this might be a way to go. The only point where we don't follow the government is in relation to how to calculate the advertisement. Until today this has been calculated after running hours, while a unanimous committee will have done the calculation in relation to fixed clock hours. We see this primarily as a practical arrangement, without the great political implications. But if there is an accumulation of advertising so that viewers become dissatisfied, both the broadcasters themselves and we politicians will look into the practice. The clock-time principle is an easier system to practice and control for broadcasters. It'll also be an advantage for our broadcasters that we have the same calculation method as some other countries. It is inappropriate to build a large control system for this purpose. It costs both time and money for the broadcasters. The problems for the broadcasters have probably arisen in the calculation of advertising when the broadcasters have had to flip over the programs because big things are happening. It has been difficult to make the computer system work in such a way that you have been able to make the right advertising time. Therefore, one might well say that the Government has received a great deal of support for its proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower.ana.ud1373e267	Now we're going to treat Ot.prp. No 2 for 1999-2000, a matter closely related to St.prp. No 96 for 1998-99, which deals with the approval of amendments to the Annexes to the EEA Agreement on audiovisual services and of amendments to the Broadcasting Act. The Progress Party is very critical of some of the details covered by the Directive, which are imposed on the Member States on the basis of this. In the opinion of the Progress Party, the content of the Directive is of an unnecessary level of detail, in areas where, in the opinion of the Progress Party, there is no need for similar standards between countries. Large parts of the Directive are of such a nature that countries themselves should be free to regulate these matters. As an example of this, we will be able to refer to Section 3-1 of the Act on Advertising, and in particular to the rules on self-advertising. Furthermore, it appears regrettable that the EEA Agreement is being used to prevent an industry from developing in line with market wishes and needs. The Progress Party believes that Norway should work against unnecessary detailed management and rather contribute to ensuring an external regulatory framework that can ensure effective competition. The point of progress is of the opinion that the definition of broadcasting should be in line with the assessment made by the ministry. It must be a continuous assessment of technical progress that ensures a precise definition, so that laws and regulations function according to their intention. The Progress Party sees the need for some events to be made available to the public and therefore considers that international rules are necessary to ensure this. However, the Progress Party would point out that it must be very careful to include many events under these rules, because there may be considerable disagreement as to what should be considered an important event. The Progress Party is initially sceptical about rules undermining the governance that the organisers themselves must have over their own events, including obtaining market prices for their own rights. The Progress Party therefore considers that Norway should contribute as much as possible to the ability of rightholders to sell their rights at market prices. The promotion party is concerned that the new rules for self-promotion may have unintended effects. It would be unfortunate if rules were introduced to prevent the public from using the possibilities offered by television and digitalisation. This is particularly true in relation to educational programmes and related teaching materials. Therefore, the Progress Party is pleased that a unanimous committee assumes that the Department will follow developments and come back to the case if such situations arise. In addition, the Progress Party considers that the rules on self-advertising are of an unnecessary level of detail which will have a significant impact on the channels financed by advertising, and has made the following proposals in the Storting meeting earlier today: ‘The Government asks the Government to renegotiate the rules on self-advertising for broadcasters, cf. Article 19a of the Directive.’;» In addition, the Party also opposes the introduction of rules on the amount of time that advertising broadcasts can take off the total transmission time per year. day(s) In the light of the opinion of the Advance Party, it should be for each company to assess the amount of advertising it wishes to send and also to promote this proposal: ‘The Government asks the Government to renegotiate the Directive’s rules on the maximum duration of advertising broadcasts per year. Date, cf. Article 18 of the Directive. ‘... With regard to delocalisation, the Progress Party will also stress that the changes made both allow third countries to take action against broadcasters in cases where they are established in one country to circumvent legislation in another country and obliges countries to follow up on measures aimed at such broadcasters. It is emphasised that the Ministry has a responsibility to comply with laws and regulations, and that this is expected to be followed up even in so-called delocalisation cases. So with regard to our proposals in this case, they have been brought up in a similar case earlier today, and the Progress Party therefore sees no logic that we are promoting them again. I would also like to signal that the Progress Party will vote against Section 3-1.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower.ana.ud1373e295	Mostly, there is an overall committee that is behind the comments here, but I have noticed that the Progress Party is now making a frontal attack on the EU's retail management, as they say, and that we should renegotiate this EEA Directive. The reality is that very many of these paragraphs are covered, already quite detailedly regulated in Norwegian legislation. For example, the desire of the Progress Party for broadcasters to be able to decide for themselves how much advertising they should send has nothing to do with the EEA Directive; it is also covered by Norwegian legislation. So I think in a way that this attack on the EEA Agreement – this is the second time in a week that the Progress Party now almost wants to veto or at least renegotiate the agreement on the basis of directives that we are dealing with in the Committee – is a bit funny, but it might be getting involved in the new orientation of the Progress Party in relation to Norwegian EU membership, without having to deal with it here. Otherwise, the Right agrees with the Committee's position and will at the same time stress that the Committee has not had the necessary consultation meetings to deal with this matter. It is regrettable, as Grethe Fossum also said, that short deadlines notified by the Department create problems for a fully satisfactory procedure. We're glad that a joint committee now joins another way of calculating advertising time than what it was put up for by the department. The ‘any given hour’ principle is not appropriate for the purposes of calculating the maximum advertising time. It is therefore positive that the Committee now supports the fact that the clock-time principle can be used in Norway, as in a number of other countries. The right has noted that several hearing bodies, for example: Norwegian Press Association, is critical of the proposal to maintain specanic restrictions that could weaken Norwegian broadcasters compared to foreign competitors. This criticism shares the right. The fact that Norway makes stricter rules than the EEA Agreement does, we believe that we should be withholding and rather try to obtain rules and regulations that are consistent with what our neighbouring country has. So until the case that is most relevant to the sports-related TV audience, namely whether a list of important sporting events to be accessible to the public is to be drawn up by being broadcast on the public channels with more than 90 pst. coverage. The debate is about Norway drawing up such a list and the events to be included in the list. A unanimous committee indicates that the Department assesses a national list of football World Cups and European Championships, as well as qualifying matches, handball World Cups and European Championships, as well as qualications, summer and winter Olympics, the World Championships on Skis and Leisure. This applies to both sexes in that category. We are familiar with the objections of the rightholders to such a list, and we will ask the Ministry to enter into a dialogue with the rightholders and not to create an excessive list, if you want to introduce such a list at all. So finally, a couple of questions to the Council of State. During the previous football World Cup, TV3 sent a number of matches that the NRK did not have room for on their flight plan. Will this be possible in the future if this is limited to the general channels? It's just NRK1 and TV 2 reaching 90 pst. by the population. This will put a bomb to, for example: NRK2 or TvNorway may send parts of the major events such as: winter- and summer-OL? Could the Council of State say anything about how they interpret this? So to Section 3-1, second paragraph, which is in the advertising of life vision and political messages on television, which Right has repeatedly voted against. We want to vote against that this time too.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower.ana.ud1373e314	In this case, it is proposed that action be taken to ensure, as far as possible, that important new events, such as: OL or football World Cup, not only being sent in payment channels that only one limited part of the people have access to. There has been an increased tendency that television rights for sports events have been purchased from so-called payment channels. This has led to a sharp rise in the price of television rights for sporting events. These developments can be expected to continue, including: due to new forms of payment television which may increase the revenue generated by such broadcasts. The idea now is that a large part of the television viewers should be able to receive these free of charge. This is why a list of what appears to be of great social value is also set up. There has been some discussion about who should be on this list. Here it must be clear that the final list will be established only after this has been out on further hearings. Thus all parties should be satisfied, I believe. A change in broadcasting law is also proposed for the definition of advertising. In addition, it is understandable that a constant rating theme for advertising funded broadcasters must be able to find the balance between the amount of advertising to be sent and the maximum number of viewers possible. All the experience and research shows that if the amount of advertising is too large, the number of viewers drops. We also know that we don't have to have many minutes before switching to other channels or to other purposes. The relationship between advertising quantity and editorial substance and the location and dosage of advertising spots is determined by the intention to keep a maximum possible viewer quantity for a longer period of time. In this assessment, it is likely to play a small role whether the legislation is based on the clock-time principle or any given hour principle. It is the response of viewers and competition from other broadcasters that will be decisive. There is also a requirement from the EEA to ensure that broadcasters are not to send certain programmes which could seriously harm minors, including minors. programs with pornographic scenes and election records. I am pleased that the ban on this now needs to be clarified in the broadcasting law. We know that there are programmes that can seriously harm the development of minors and that are not affected by the specific points of criminal law. Otherwise, applications that should not be visible for children will be marked as being of good help for their parents or as being of good help for them. I'm glad of this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower.ana.ud1373e329	Also, I would like to ask when we get such cases later, that we get proper deadlines for proper proceedings. It has not been in this case. I would also like to say that there is a rather strange situation when the Progress Party that is a member of the EEA Agreement proposes to veto two cases – this is the second case today – while we are against the EEA Agreement, do not use these occasions, but choose other opportunities to oppose the EEA Agreement. I would particularly like to welcome – now I refer to what Grethe Fossum and others have said – that by implementing this television directive, one ensures that important events become widely available to the vast majority of TV viewers – especially important sporting events. I would like to comment on this particular issue of sporting events, because there has been some criticism of the majority that will be adopted today, but also because it is only two and a half years since SV submitted a Document No. 8 proposals to ensure national coverage of important sporting events. We thought at the time that we had room for action to do what the television directive is now proposing for us to do. The majority then referred to the television directive, which was for discussion at the time. When it is to be implemented, also in relation to ensuring access to important events on TV, we are pleased that the intention behind our Document No. Eight proposals are now being made. In a way, I can understand that large specialty organisations, who get large incomes by selling broadcasting rights, react. But I think that reaction is quite short-sighted. Sport is our largest movement of people and is in many ways an important joint venture, by providing grants both through tipping, through the tax and municipal budgets, through quotas from all hundreds of thousands of members, and not least through hard work and training and parental intervention. It is this joint effort that makes sport legitimate. It is therefore both right and important, also for the opening up of sport, that as many important events as possible can be seen on TV. What we have observed — including in Europe — is that there has been an accelerating price spiral, where TV rights are becoming more expensive and expensive. In view of the fact that sport is a good substance — including for viewers — and therefore also for advertisers — this price range has been driven by strong, advertising-funded TV channels. The expanding market has brought a new stage into the chain: straw companies that buy up rights for resale, like pay-TV, which can afford to pay because many of them are owned by large media magnates. As a result, there is a risk of a development in which access to television broadcasts can be divided both geographically and socially, and sports are not served either. It is neither good sports policy nor good media policy. Then I also show that it is now up to the Department to draw up lists of what kind of events the entire Norwegian people should be guaranteed access to. I would also like to stress that this must happen in a good dialogue with those concerned. But then, sport is best served that as many people as possible have the opportunity to see the big events. So until what might be a little surprising is that the SV now joins the clock time principle in calculating advertising. That's because we've seen that there are important arguments that this is the most practical way to do it. And more importantly, it doesn't lead to any more advertising on TV. There are other regulations coming in. But it is very important for us to say that if this leads to the accumulation of advertising, which has also been feared by the State Media Administration and the Department, we would like to come back and stop it. We believe it is very, very unfortunate if it leads to an accumulation of advertising. But SV supports the setting today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower.ana.ud1373e348	I am pleased that the majority in the Committee subscribes to the proposals in Ot.prp No. 2 for 1999-2000 on amendments to the Broadcasting Act, with a small exception. As you know, the background to the proposals is the Appendix to the TV Directive of the EEA Agreement adopted by the Stortinget earlier today. An important proposal in the proposal is the basis for taking measures which, as far as possible, will contribute to ensuring, inter alia, that: major sporting events shall be available free of charge to a significant proportion of television viewers. The aim is to ensure that important events, such as: OL or football World Cup, not only being sent in payment channels available to a limited proportion of the population. The proposal envisages that a regulatory list of events of major societal importance can be drawn up. This is a regulation that is voluntary, but I think it is important for Norwegian television viewers that we do what we can to preserve traditionally popular sports events and possibly other events on our public broadcasting channels. The Norwegian list must be approved by the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA. I just want to take this opportunity to confirm that of course we want a good dialogue with the relevant bodies in the preparation of these lists. We will send the lists to the hearing, and we will also add up to our own meetings with e.g. Football Federation. Provisions are also proposed to ensure that Norwegian broadcasters respect the possibility of receiving important events on the lists of other EEA countries free of charge by a significant proportion of the viewers in the respective countries. Furthermore, a change in the advertising definition of the Broadcasting Act is proposed, which is extended to self-promotion activities, i.e.: self-counting of the broadcaster's own products and beyond. Questions have been raised about how the implementation of the Directive at this point would affect the ability of the NRK to demonstrate, for example: self-produced teaching material. I would like to stress that the NRK's access to advertising for such products will in any case be limited, as it is not allowed to send advertising in the NRK's public channels. It was adopted a few weeks ago. The proposal also proposes that provision be made for a regulation to prohibit the transmission of programmes which could seriously harm children and young people. In particular, this programme includes pornography and serious violence scenes. Regulations are also proposed in order to be able to regulate the transmission of uncoded television programmes that could harm children and young people during periods when children and young people cannot be expected to constitute a significant audience. This so-called watershed principle is being followed voluntarily by Norwegian broadcasters today, but has not yet been legalised. In addition, a regulatory help is proposed for such applications to be alerted by either a sound entry at application startup or by a continuous visual symbol. I record that the Committee does not see any significant social justification for the so-called ‘any give hour’ principle for the calculation of the amount of advertising allowed per. hour. I take note that the calculation will be done hereafter in accordance with the so-called clock-hour principle, and will ensure that it is incorporated into the rules. With regard to the question from the representative of Greece, whether it will be possible for other channels to purchase rights for the time not used by the public broadcasters, the NRK or TV 2, which are the ones spoken of on the Norwegian side, is not subject to a duty to send, and it will be fully possible for other channels to purchase rights for parts of the events. The point is that the programs will then be offered NRK or TV 2 for sending to more than 90 pst. by the population. So, finally, with regard to the timescales for dealing with this matter, the Government generally endeavours to implement the EEA Directives within the timescales set. This means that, in some situations, we are under pressure for time. In this case, the situation was that the decision of the EEA Committee was taken on 25 June, the landfill proposal was presented on 17 September and the odeltingsproposition on 8 October. As I said, the aim here is to find the balance in relation to the implementation requirements set out in the contract work. However, I am concerned that, in general, we must both ensure that matters are dealt with quickly enough in the EEA Committee and that we have to deal with them in such a way that we give the bodies of the Storting as much time as possible to carry out a proper examination of the EEA acts as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower.ana.ud1373e379	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower.ana.ud1373e383	I needed to make some comments, especially with regard to the representative of Greece, who is now trying for the second time today to stamp the Progress Party's appearance on this matter – we had similar earlier today – as having a desire for a veto. After all, I understand that the Right and the representative of Greece have a huge need for and scratches after a new EU debate. At least that's not what we're trying to add up to. The same applies also to the representative Fossum and the representative of SV. The fact that we want a renegotiation of § 3-1 cannot be compared with the desire for veto. In this case, the representative of Greece wants veto on a small part of Section 3-1 – I have understood that they will vote against the second paragraph of Section 3-1, and then it must also be considered to be in the same direction. Of course, it could have been interesting rather to hear Right’s principle view that the EEA Agreement is used in a way to prevent an industry from developing in line with market wishes and needs, rather than spending its time adding to the principle views of the EEA and the EU. I believe that they have registered that this is what is happening in this case, and that they believe that the European Union and the EEA go beyond the right wishes in such areas. But the Right only takes a small grip, unlike the Advancement Party, on this matter. We want to renegotiate the entire section 3-1 – and right then a small part of it to mark its principle view and policy in this area – but it does not want to be right. Then, of course, they show that this is a result of the people saying no to the European Union in their time. Yeah, well, at least that's what we have to deal with. If the Right spends a great deal of time and energy on getting a new EU debate and perhaps fortifies a new referendum, they will have to do so. However, the relationship of the Progress Party with the EEA has not changed as a result. After all, a lot must be allowed to spend time on the political content of the propositions put forward, not on a system that is proportionate. The only thing the Progress Party has done here is that we've spent our time and energy going into the political content of the proposition that we've dealt with earlier today, and this proposition, and not on the system that exists.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower.ana.ud1373e394	I'll try not to repeat what I said instead. But there is clearly a need for the representative Sandberg to hear it twice, because what I said was that there are some strange regulations, among other things. § 3-1 on this subject with a ban on advertising life views and policies, which are not covered by the EEA Agreement. The reason why we want to vote against the second term now is that, together with the Progress Party, we have consistently voted against the paragraph before. But this is not part of the EEA Agreement, and that is where the Progress Party makes a mistake. They now look at this case and say that this is detailed regulation from the EEA. The reality is that there are minor changes in the broadcasting law. The Broadcasting Act has been developed here in this house, so it may be necessary to criticise the fact that there is too much detail regulation, not necessarily to the EU and the EEA. With regard to Sandberg's comments on the EU debate, I am not going to go into it, because we have no desire to bring up any EU debate on membership, either in connection with this matter or other matters right now. But what's interesting is that you're now recording a trend where the Progress Party for the second time in a short time says that we want renegotiations on directives from the EEA that are actually relatively modest. So I look forward with excitement to when there is a larger directive, whether the Progress Party is at the same time in the area of renegotiation or, where appropriate, veto.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower.ana.ud1373e401	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 2 and 3 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it adopted. [[Fotation, see page 194]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower.ana.ud1373e426	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 20 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 10 minutes and the representative Mikalsen 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower.ana.ud1373e437	The present proposal to amend the Code of Cultural Memory must be seen in the context of the consideration of the Communication on Environmental Protection Policy for Sustainable Development. In its opinion on the sustainability Communication, the Committee expressed deep concern that many cultural memories would be lost. In addition, it was noted that the framework conditions are not conducive to private interests taking adequate responsibility for the protection of cultural memories. The majority of the Committee felt that a public body should be set up to explore cultural memory policy as a whole, including an in-depth assessment of objectives and strategies. The committee is now in the process of its work and will give its opinion in the spring of 2001. The Committee also stated that the very important work on securing and registering cultural memories should not stop due to the work of the sample. The present proposal is limited to those areas where change needs have already been identified and where, in view of the challenges facing cultural memory management, the need is most pressing. In the context of the broad consensus on cultural memory issues at the time of the discussion of the sustainability communication, it is natural that the proposed amendments are also widely accepted and have a solid majority behind them. The proposed changes will strengthen cultural memory and help to reduce the decline of valuable cultural memories. Freedom for construction works and constructions is also a key element, but far from the only change that can have a major positive impact on cultural memory. It is positive that it will now be allowed to save particularly valuable floating boats. Today, boats are protected from interference under the Culture Memory Act only if they are over 100 years of age and are under water. In the context of the examination of the proposed amendments to the Cultural Memory Act, it has been highlighted that there is a need for increased state funding for the restoration of cultural memories. We have had an important debate and increased awareness of cultural memory in dealing with this matter. In the context of the budgetary procedure, there was an agreement between the Centre Parties and the Workers' Party to strengthen cultural memory by 7.2 million. kr. Furthermore, there is agreement that a contingency plan for cultural memory appropriations should be submitted. In this context, it was natural for the contracting parties to support the proposal to submit proposals for improved support schemes and other incentives in the 2001 budget to ensure protection, restoration, refurbishment and other maintenance under the Culture Memory Act. This is also fully in line with the government's stated ambition and with the mandate given to the selection that is now going through cultural memory policy. Reference may also be made to the proposed changes to the tax system in the 2000 budget in order to stimulate increased private protection efforts for cultural memories. As the rapporteur, I would also like to make a few comments on Document No. The 8-proposal, which has been promoted by five advance party representatives, on amendments to the Cultural Memory Act. With the proposal to amend Section 10 of the Cultural Memory Act, the proposers want a change so that the State bears the costs of specific examination before the implementation of measures. I refer to the answer from the Minister for the Environment, where she, among other things, indicates that there is good reason to look at and reconsider the burden-sharing that has developed through long-term administrative practices. It is maintained that this is a problem which should be further explored by the Culture Memory Committee and that any legislative change should await the examination of the sample. A majority therefore proposes that the proposed legislation be forwarded to the Government for further investigation. In connection with the amendment of the Cultural Memory Act, there is a point which has fallen out, and which I want to correct by promoting a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left. It's like: ‘II The law shall come into force from the time of the king's judgment."
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower.ana.ud1373e469	The rapporteur on the matter, Mr Kvassheim, has taken up the proposal he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower.ana.ud1373e472	Our cultural memories say a lot about our history and are an important part of our identity. Therefore, cultural memory protection is an important part of environmental policy. The law of 9 June 1978 on cultural memories states that ancient and Middle Ages fixed ancient memories are to be peaceful. It is the automatically peaceful cultural memories that are called ancient memories. Premembranes have both knowledge value, experience value, identity value and symbolic value. It is therefore regrettable that the level of conflict associated with the protection of cultural memories is as high as it is today. This means that we are constantly losing in the fight to take care of the forgotten part of our story. We're dealing with two things here today. The one issue is Document No. 8:14 for 1999-2000, by members of the Progress Party, who propose that the State should bear greater responsibility for the cost of examining cultural memories. The members of the Progress Party point here to some of the issues we are facing in the context of the general cultural memory policy. In a letter of 22 November 1999 from the Council of State Guro Fjellanger, commenting on Document No. The 8 proposal, she says that there is good reason to look at, and reconsider, the burden-sharing that has evolved through long-term administrative practices, and that she is initially not rejecting the public's need to take a greater share of these costs. With these signals it is right for a majority of the committee to send Document No. The 8th proposal to the Government for further investigation. Today, we know that individuals and municipalities are charged extra costs as such special investigations take quite a long time. Int. S. No 150 for 1997-98 on environmental protection policies for sustainable development, a majority proposed that a selection be set up to look at cultural memory policy as a whole. In no way did the work of the committee have to slow down important registration or other ongoing work in order to secure our national cultural heritage. I interpret it so that it is this declared government has tried to follow up with the legislative amendments in Ot.prp. No 50 for 1998-99. The biggest and perhaps most important change in the law is the proposal to extend the time for automatically freed works from 1537 to 1649. This limit has been unchanged since 1905. The limit was once again chosen more from the fact that the Reformation marked a distinction in our history than from the time when a change in the structure was made. Building traditions from the Middle Ages continued in large parts of the country to far beyond the 1600s. Our construction works from before 1650 are therefore particularly important, because the sources of this part of our history are very limited. Large parts of this building mass are today without any protection whatsoever. The Workers' Party believes that this building heritage is so valuable that automatic conservation until 1650 is a good tool for preserving history. Whatever means we use, the law on cultural memory will impose a great deal of obligations on the owners of cultural memories. They may not make any changes to the buildings, externally or internally, without the permission of the cultural memory management. Peace largely does not give rise to the right to compensation either. These issues are the Stortinges aware of, for the Innst. S. No 150 for 1997-98 to the Sustainability Communication said a unanimous committee: ‘At the same time, the Committee would point out that the framework conditions do not allow private interests to take adequate responsibility for the protection of cultural memories.’ And then it says, ‘The Committee considers that the Government should review the taxes and charges imposed on owners of cultural memories. The purpose of such a review must be to prevent the charging system from counteracting private protection efforts.» When the Government then submits a proposal on changes in the law that implements approx. 2 000 new construction works, without making concrete proposals for new tax systems and without proposing how, in cooperation with the owners, trust in protection efforts through the rights of the owners, it is natural to ask whether this amendment will contribute to a greater distance and reluctance to take care of our cultural values. We know that today's framework conditions are not good enough for private interests to take sufficient responsibility. This means that a better balance must be struck between the obligations of owners and the responsibilities of society. The working party believes that this has been overemphasized in the proposition that we are now dealing with. Today we have 432 construction works that have been given automatic protection, and approx. 2,900 construction works are at peace with decision. With today's cultural memory policy, several of these will become obsolete, and with a further 2000 buildings within the protection limit, it is difficult to understand that the Government believes that between 10 and 12 million. extra annual is sufficient to meet the challenges posed by the amendment of the law. At the same time, the government says that the removal, decay and destruction of cultural memories should be minimised, to 0.5 pst., by 2008. Today we have a loss of 1 pst. By 2010, cultural memories and environments shall be preserved in a condition corresponding to the 1998 level. In that case, rescued buildings and structures shall be at a standard level of maintenance. How this is to be implemented is difficult to understand when, in an article in the Evening Post on 7 December 1999, the Riksantikvaren believes that the budget of the Ministry of the Environment and 1 billion DKK from other contributors over a ten-year period are required to maintain our cultural heritage. So the Riksantikvart believes that we need a total of DKK 2.5 billion to get saved buildings up to a level that in the future only needs normal maintenance. I see it as absolutely necessary that the Cultural Memory Committee go through the whole of its cultural memory policy. With the Riksantikvaren on the one hand and the Government on the other, it's hard to figure out what we really lack financially to take care of our building history. And now we get new objects. I am thinking about our protective boats. In the future, significant resources will need to be invested in this part of cultural memory protection. This is a long way from the Riksantikvaren action plan, and we now have floating vessels. Through the cooperation between the Workers' Party and the government parties, we already managed to find $7 million in 2000. kr extra to the responsibilities of the Riksantikvaren. This was absolutely necessary in order for this legislative amendment proposal to have a majority at all. With an agreement on a further escalation plan, the Workers' Party hopes that the confidence of the private owners in this is not impaired. Unfortunately, the discussion of cultural memory policy through this proposition has mostly been limited to the size of the economic framework. This is an unfortunate narrowing of a national problem that does not serve cultural memory protection. Money and economics will not in themselves create a good cultural memory protection. What really matters is getting engaged people in the local environment around the country. We see that more and more people are committed to preserving cultural memories. This is actually happening despite the lack of financial support, and despite the lack of rights for the owners. The cultural memory policy is currently too passive, it is disproportionate to the commitment of individuals, organisations and institutions. If, through the discussions in connection with this proposition, we can get the policy from being management-oriented to development-oriented, we will have far-reaching success in cultural memory protection. Today's cultural memory policy needs to be modernised and replaced by a policy where equal value and good dialogue are the basic principles. The big community needs to be better at listening to people when new plans are to be made. It is the history of communities hidden in the foresight that is why it is important for local communities to be involved. I hope that the Cultural Memory Committee places great emphasis on this in its work on the design of any new and better cultural memory policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower.ana.ud1373e518	The Progress Party is of the opinion that we should have clear and clear legislation to ensure the preservation of our main cultural memories. This must be a regulation that both safeguards the interests of society for protection and ensures the availability and use of individual cultural memories over own property. In other words, we need a piece of legislation that is simple and that is as free as possible from bureaucratic governance. This is why the Progress Party cannot support the amendments in Ot.prp. No 50 for 1998-99. The Progress Party will demonstrate that the owners of cultural memories are today charged with a well-regulated regulation and high taxes and taxes. Owners of cultural memories are subject to extensive interpretations through protection and maintenance requirements, while restrictions on use are imposed – and this without any public compensation schemes being proportionate to the burdens imposed on the individual. This is, in our opinion, the wrong policy. The best protection for cultural memories is active use. Protected buildings must be used actively, both on a daily basis and by developing new forms of use such as: tourism. The more restrictions are imposed on the individual owner, the more difficult it is to make protection. For the Progress Party, the legal status of the owners of cultural memories is one of the main issues to be addressed in the preparation of a legislative framework for the protection of cultural memories. Current legislation and proposals of Ot.prp. No 50 is far from sufficient to ensure this. Therefore, we find it very regrettable that this revision of the Cultural Memory Act does not find it appropriate to lay down rules that strengthen the legal position of the owners. With the proposed rules, cultural protection will not come a single step forward. Protective authorities may continue to impose obligations on private owners relating to refurbishment and maintenance without adequate compensation for the resulting costs and disadvantages. This is a policy that is not in the best interests of cultural memories, so in future we will also see that important cultural memories fall due and do not receive the maintenance required. The Progress Party has promoted a Document No. 8 proposals that will both contribute to safeguarding cultural memories and safeguard the interests of owners. The proposal will help to preserve many cultural memories that there are currently no resources to protect. It is also a proposal that will help to facilitate business and private owners in an area where legislation is too burdensome today. Some places are the cost of securing cultural memories so large that cultural memories are not secured. The protection also leads to significant restrictions on land use, including: large areas with valuable properties become inactive because there is a cultural memory in the ground. The landowner often does not have the ability to cover the costs of hedges. Many find it very unreasonable that the cost of securing our common cultural heritage should be borne by a few. This is a problem that is very relevant to our oldest cities, but also to large parts of the country. In many of our oldest cities, many central, important and valuable plots are unutilized because the costs of landowners are inconvenient if they are to make an appropriate use of the property. In addition to limiting the landowner, such policies also place considerable restrictions on active urban development in many places. Therefore, the cost of protection and excavation must be borne by the State to a greater extent. On this occasion, I would like to refer to a letter from the National Association of Puck and gravel suppliers showing how the legislation is negative for an industry and confirming that our proposal addresses a very topical and important issue. The members of the PGL feel that the costs of cultural memory protection are significant. In some places, the cost is so high that it becomes unprofitable to extract rock or gravel resources after surveys have been carried out. As access to good quality gravel resources decreases, the value of society’s exploitation of such resources for construction needs to be given priority in the balance against cultural memory purposes. Excessive cultural memory protection will in many cases lead to the bankruptcy of enterprises and the loss of valuable jobs. This is a development that society and cultural memory protection are not worthy of. The size must therefore address this issue and adopt legislation and compensation mechanisms to avoid such developments. With the information supporting this Document No. The 8 proposal, I think it's strange that the rest of the committee does not consider it appropriate to adopt the proposal. This testifies to the lack of willingness to ensure the legal certainty and framework conditions of private owners and companies. This is regrettable. With this I would like to address the proposal by the Progress Party in the Innst region. O. No 25 and at the same time make it clear that we will vote against the legislative amendments in Ot.prp. No 50.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower.ana.ud1373e531	Øyvind Vaksdal has taken up the suggestion he referred to. Before the next speaker, Brother Yngve Rahm, gets the floor, the President will remind you that the regulatory time is soon to come. The President will propose that Mr Odelstingen finish the debate in Case No. 2 and 3 of this morning's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower.ana.ud1373e536	Today, we are pleased to note that the Government is taking effect on the proposals for amendments to the Cultural Memory Act that have been submitted. We are today in a situation where an estimated 1 pst. cultural memories are lost every year. Many protected and other valuable cultural memories are damaged or destroyed by various types of intervention and action. Often the lack of knowledge about cultural memories and their value for protection is due. This is, as I see it, a very serious situation. In order to limit the damage and loss of our common cultural heritage, it is therefore important to provide the relevant authorities with the necessary framework to safeguard our – and future – common interests. At the same time, it is an important challenge for cultural memory to be protected in a acceptable way, including for those who have reduced their freedom of action due to protective measures. This balance sheet has been maintained in the setting currently under way, in the context of the budgetary position that we debated a week ago. All cultural memories from before 1537 are today automatically peaced. The same applies to Sami cultural memories over 100 years of age. We know that construction works representing the medieval structure are now being lost as a result of the automatic conservation no longer extending. It can also be mentioned that the provisions on this limit – 1537 – were incorporated into the law as early as 1905. Given today's situation of cultural memory loss, and given the time that has gone on since 1905 and the knowledge that we have built up in this period, it's natural to change this limit. With this law, therefore, the automatic rescue works also include existing construction works from 1537 to 1649. This includes at the base of 2,000 buildings, which are largely linked to farm buildings, churches — and some town halls. These construction works are important sources of our knowledge of the medieval structure. It is therefore of great importance to the cultural heritage that we take care of them. Today's legislative acts follow up opinions previously issued by the Energy and Environment Committee, including: in the context of the Communication on environmental protection policies for sustainable development. This applies, for example: the establishment of a warrant for the auto-realisation of rescued construction works. This shall contribute to the reduction of the loss of automatically saved cultural memories. In the case of construction works and structures from 1650 to 1849, the municipal government is required to notify the municipalities in respect of the demolition or reconstruction of conservation buildings and structures. The problem today is that many municipalities do not notify cultural memory management about such applications. This obligation to notify does not in itself permit the refusal of undesired demolition or refurbishment, but it could trigger a complaint against a demolition or conversion decision, or it could lead to a decision on conservation or temporary conservation under the Cultural Memory Act. The proceedings for the protection of State-owned protected buildings and structures are simplified. The purpose of this is to ensure these buildings in a more efficient and resource-saving way than today. The rules for the rescue of boats are also changed. As Norway is a coastal and maritime nation, it is important to ensure that floating boats of great cultural historical value are also protected. We see it as a national responsibility to ensure a representative selection of protective boats for the future. For the main types of boat, we also support other protection measures that may be applicable, such as voluntary agreements with owners and users on operation and maintenance. There is also a majority of public pre-emption rights for loose cultural memories. This shall ensure that valuable movable items are not sold out of their historical environment, where they often have the best means of protection for the public. This provision gives us a safety valve in relation to movables which it is of national interest to have in public ownership. These measures will cost money. It is therefore assumed that the resulting costs are covered by the annual budgets. I would like to refer to that increase in cultural memory protection funds of 7.2 million. kr which was the result of the agreement between the centre parties and the Working Party. In this context, a stepping-up plan shall also be provided for annual appropriations relating to cultural memory protection and the increased needs arising from the amendment of the law. With regard to the discussion about whether enough money has been put aside to comply with the new legal provisions, I would like to point out that it is not common practice to commit appropriations in ad hoc proposals. But the law will be followed up with the necessary appropriations now, after its adoption. The long term of the Committee did not allow money to be put into the 2000 budget until we increased the appropriations for the agreed solution to the State budget. It is very positive that the Government here has joined in an important legislative change in order to preserve our common cultural heritage. Finally, in the case of the proposal from the Party of Progress, Document No. 8:14, that the state should bear the costs of a separate examination of automatically peaced cultural memories, we will, on the part of the central parties, take a positive view of it, in the sense that we want a more detailed assessment of this proposal. There may be grounds for reconsidering the burden-sharing that has developed in terms of review before action is taken.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower.ana.ud1373e568	Cultural memories form an important part of our culture, and are therefore an important part of our national identity. This underlines the importance of a national policy and responsibility for cultural memories. At the same time, many cultural memories may be of primary importance to and in the local environment in which they are located, or perhaps they will have the greatest importance for those persons or families who, through generations, are linked to what has gradually become a cultural memory. Throughout generations, individuals, families, teams and associations have also taken care of our cultural heritage of their own interest and for the sake of those who come after. The fact that there are strong feelings about cultural memory protection has revealed how this matter is being dealt with. There is something serious wrong with politics in this area when those who have taken care of cultural heritage through generations today experience the state as a counter-player and not as a co-player. The right is of the opinion that proud, committed and active owners are the main asset of cultural memory protection. That is why the Right wants a new cultural memory policy. Firstly, governments must start treating private owners as equal. Secondly, the authorities must be willing to enter into committed cooperation with the owners of cultural memories. In other words, there must be more cooperation, less conflict, more partnership between authorities and owners and less government over-management. In this setting, the Right has called for a better balance between the obligations imposed by the State on the owners by means of safeguard decisions and the rights the owners should have. The right is not against proposals to extend the limit of automatic rescue, but we want primarily to send the proposition back to the Government, so that this extension can be balanced with the rights of the owners. I am pleased that today's right-wing majority in favour of the proposal to oblige the Government to come back with concrete proposals for improved support schemes and other incentives to ensure protection measures, restoration, refurbishment and other maintenance under the Culture Memory Act. The right also promotes another proposal, which aims to strengthen the legal position of the owner. Among other things, we point out: that Section 20 of the Nature Conservation Act provides for compensation to owners of land for the reduction of value by means of protection measures. Right-wing wish to have an assessment of whether a corresponding paragraph of the Cultural Memory Act should be introduced. This proposal does not reach a majority. I also point out that the Right obviously opposes the proposal to open up the ministry to expropriate loose cultural memories. We cannot see that the Government in the proposition proves that it should be opened up so that the state can use such a radical instrument. It is gratifying to note that in this debate the Labour Party expresses a positive attitude towards cultural memory protection and a willingness to step up the state effort. But these words become poor when you see how the Workers' Party used cultural memory in a game around the budget. If the Workers' Party really thinks something about what they said, they could get a completely different priority of cultural memory protection in the negotiations with the Government. Secondly, the Workers' Party could join forces with the Right and find a better solution when dealing with the Cultural Memory Act. But here too, the Workers' Party chose to join with the Center Parties. The representative, Torny Pedersen, regrets the level of conflict that has been revealed between the state and private in the handling of the Cultural Memory Act. I have great respect for the commitment of the representative, Torny Pedersen, to this matter. But her party, the Workers' Party, could have contributed more to alleviating the conflict between the state and the private landowners. It surprises me, however, that the understanding shown by the Labour Party in this case is very little present in the centre parties. This is a matter in which it should be expected that the bourgeois parties were united – that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left Party and the Advance Party had a common position in the defence of the private landowners and against the State domination. It should be of concern to the Left and the Christian People's Party that it is the Workers' Party which has signaled that it stands nearest Right in a defense for the private landowners, and has largely pointed out that the State also has a duty to balance obligations towards the rights of the private landowners. I hope that even the centre parties can see that there is a need to balance obligations towards the rights of the private landowners if we are to have more of an important part of our cultural heritage. With regard to the proposal of the Progress Party, the Right is in principle in favour of the intentions of the proposal. It raises a very important issue. We are pleased that the majority of the Committee will forward the proposal to the Government for further consideration. When the right has not found the right to vote in favour of this proposal, it is among other things. In the light of the response sent by the Council of State to the Committee, which we believe points to the importance of taking a closer look at this issue. I also noticed that the representative Øyvind Vaksdal pointed out the unfortunate fact that the state imposes obligations on private owners without providing compensation. Then it should be thought-provoking for the Progress Party that with their proposals there would be even lower compensation for the private landowners, because already today there is an opening in the Cultural Memory Act so that the State can provide compensation to private owners of cultural memories. But the Advance Party cuts almost 25 pst. in the allocation of cultural memory protection. So if the Progress Party really meant something about its commitment to this front, you should be more willing to let money follow with the beautiful words. Through this treatment, it has been focused on an important part of our cultural heritage. I believe that most parties, despite the disagreement that has emerged both through the suspension and through this debate, recognise that the law and existing support schemes are not optimal. The right, therefore, hopes that the next time the Storting will discuss these issues, it will be possible to achieve real improvements, so that we will be better able to take care of our cultural heritage. With this, I address the suggestions that the right-hand side promotes in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower.ana.ud1373e600	Jan Tore Sanner has addressed the two suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower.ana.ud1373e603	The background to this proposal is that 1 pst. autosaved cultural memory destroyed annually. This is often due to a lack of knowledge of cultural memory and their protection value. This is a wealth we should preserve as one of our identities from ancient times. The movement of the border from 1537 to 1650 for the antiquarian conservation of standing construction works will now include nearly 2 000 construction works. Most of them are connected to gardening and churches, and a few are townhouses. The background for moving the boundary to 1650 is that much of the interminable structure lasted until the middle of the 1600s. The reporting obligation will also apply to some 600 000 other houses listed between 1650 and 1850. Many of the owners of the Peaced Buildings spend a lot of work and money to maintain these buildings, and it is very important to include the owners in this work. There is no doubt that the most important asset of cultural memory protection is proud, committed and active owners of cultural memory. In the long term, active participation by the owner is an important element for the protection of cultural heritage and for the fulfilment of cultural heritage's intentions. Here it is important for public authorities to play on layers with the owners. The proposal is now limited to areas where a need for change has already been identified and where the need is most urgent. Of all the 120 hearing outcomes, a large number are positive for the amendments. It is now important that the Government go through the taxes and taxes imposed on cultural memory owners. In any case, this must not prevent private protection efforts from being carried out. Since the owners of cultural memory are making a tremendous effort, this is crucial for our cultural heritage. But at the same time, existing legislation creates financial burdens for many of the cultural memory owners, thus weakening their chances of taking enough responsibility for cultural memory protection. A public selection will now be presenting a breakdown in the spring of 2001 after a comprehensive review of cultural memory policy. Some of the objectives there are also to look at the tax system, which here does not have to be such as to prevent private protection efforts. It shall also focus on considering the owner’s role as an actor in cultural memory, including in relation to the framework conditions. I expect the department to follow this up and come back to Stortinget as soon as possible so that we can better the law of the day. It would have been desirable that it had followed the money with now in relation to this proposal, but it is not common in connection with odelsting's propositions. Others, too, have been involved. Nevertheless, the government parties together with the Labour Party, in the budget, have strengthened cultural memory protection by 7.2 million. In addition to the draft budget. In addition, a stepping-up plan for annual cultural memory rights shall be submitted in line with the increased need arising from this legislative change. Now we also have to take into account that not all of these 2,000 buildings will be registered overnight, but gradually. However, the amendment here is expected to take place as soon as possible, even in relation to previous obligations for other owners. If the protective regimes can impose obligations on private owners relating to refurbishment and maintenance without compensating for the extra cost of antiquarian work, the consequence can easily be that no maintenance or restoration is done, so that cultural memory becomes standing and decaying. And at least there's no ignition. I am therefore pleased that it is now being proposed that, in the context of the next year's budget, we should have proposals for better support schemes and other stimulating measures to ensure protection in relation to cultural monuments. In the case of Document No: The 8 proposal, I'm looking forward to this being distributed closer to its full width. There's a great need to look at this. That's what I've seen, not least on the Jären, where I could think of a lot of impossible examples, so something has to happen here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower.ana.ud1373e636	SV supports setting for this issue. I must say, personally, that both the Torny Pedersen and Gunnar Kvassheim have done well for what this is really about, and what this is all about in substance. So I don't have a big need to make a similar post, but what I need is to say something about the mystery of cultural memory protection. One might like to talk, as the two representatives have done, about cooperation and team games, about dialogue, etc., but then it has to be followed up in practice, and that's when one comes to the point, which is money. Brother Yngve Rahm argued that the government was unfortunately unable to bring money because they are part of the committee at Stortinget – now I had to think about when it comes to parliamentary language – but let me say it this way: I thought the government itself had the will to do this. Despite the fact that a user spends time in Stortinget, it is clear that there is a screaming need, regardless of the treatment of this law. So here's a challenge for the representative of Rahm and the central government. If they are now to cooperate with the Labour Party in the revised national budget, they are all given the first chance to bring funds there. I assume, based on the signals I've received both from the Labour Party and from the Centre Party, that there's a proper increase in the budget in all the revised national budgets. It is easy where the challenge lies, not if you can lead a dialogue. You have to have something in addition to having a dialogue, and that's what it means. Otherwise, I think that this law will lead to a remark about cultural memory protection that makes it easier for us to work with the cause. We will also be able to discuss this in the Energy and Environment Committee in connection with the message about the state of the state of the state of the state of the state and thus see the search light, among others. on what Mr Pedersen's representative was about to do, that is, boats, and I expect the committee to do that. So I just want to end by saying that the government now has a challenge when it comes to making a real effort in this area – it's clearing from SV, but also clearing from the Labour Party. Then only start operation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower.ana.ud1373e649	Since we're so far in overtime, I'm going to be very short. I'll just make a few comments. The need to strengthen cultural memory protection cannot, in my view, be stressed enough. We lose a number of cultural memories every year, and more and more of our history disappears, a story that can give us footholds or anchors in a world that is in strong change. Every year we lose cultural memories, and if development continues, in a few years we won't have anything special left from the early period. It is therefore high time that the limits of automatic rescue were changed from 1537 to 1650, and that proposal also has strong support among those dealing with these cases, among individuals and organisations. Cultural memory protection is, of course, an economic issue, and there is reason to note that the budget line increased by 7.2 million in the course of the year. kr – not so much, but it is a small improvement. There is also a majority in favour of a stepping-up plan for increased allocations to cultural memory protection, and that is particularly important after this legislative change. So the committee expects this to be followed up by the ministry, and that means in clear terms that more money has to be allocated to next year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower.ana.ud1373e658	The need to strengthen the legal basis for cultural memory protection was already addressed in St.meld. No 58 for 1996-97, Environmental protection policy for sustainable development. When considering the notification, the Committee agreed to this end. At the same time, the Committee asked for the establishment of a public body to pursue cultural memory management objectives and instruments. The Committee stressed that such an investigation should not delay the ongoing reform work. The legislative proposal that has been presented is therefore a direct follow-up to the EEAG communication on environmental protection policies for sustainable development and its treatment by the EEAG. The main elements of the Cultural Memory Act have remained virtually unchanged since 1905. It has become increasingly clear that today's legislation is inadequate in relation to meeting important challenges in the field of cultural memory protection. Proposals to change the conservation limit for buildings up to 1650 must be seen in such a perspective. We have little other source material from this epoch, and buildings from the period are rare and exposed. Important parts of our building heritage and our building history will be lost if we don't manage them in a good way. A main objection to the bill has been that it will affect private owners unreasonablely. There is no doubt that the efforts made by private owners, teams and associations are vital to cultural memory protection. I would therefore like to stress that it is an important part of the Government's policy to create a better framework for private efforts and for the activities of voluntary organisations. The new changes to the tax legislation on freer access to the choice of the form of housing that is protected or regulated for conservation are part of this policy. The role of owners and non-governmental organisations is also central to the mandate of the Committee appointed to pursue cultural memory policy objectives and instruments. This of course does not mean that I reject the objections that have been raised. I agree that there is reason to take a closer look at the situation of the owners of peaceful cultural memories, and that there is reason to consider the burden-sharing between private and public in cultural memory protection work. These are issues that need to be considered in a broad perspective. In addition to purely grant schemes, we need to look at other instruments, such as further changes in the tax system, better coordination and targeting of existing instruments and easier access to technical assistance. It is precisely such a broad approach where different instruments are seen in context, we have asked the Cultural Memory Committee to look at them more closely. With regard to the maintenance situation of saved buildings and structures, the Government already has in St.meld. No 8 for 1999-2000, the Government's environmental protection policy and the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state, announced a continuation of work on launching and maintenance. Such a service requires increased public exposure and will make a significant contribution to improving the situation of the owners of preserved buildings. Increased bet on refurbishment and maintenance must take place in the long term, well planned and under the most stable and foreseeable conditions. The action must also be dimensioned on the basis of knowledge and available professional competence. The management needs to continuously develop the knowledge base to ensure that efforts are correct and have the best possible effect. At the same time, it is necessary to gradually build up craft skills and capacities. In this context, I would like to highlight the positive experience that we have in this area of providing skills-building employment in the districts. The specific competence of local craftsmen in such contexts develops in the field of construction and materials use is sought far beyond the market made up of peaceful buildings. My claim, therefore, is that an increased commitment to the maintenance and refurbishment of peaceful buildings provides the basis for increased value creation in the districts and for a good social economy. The majority of the Committee calls for a stepping-up plan to be drawn up for annual appropriations for cultural memory protection and for the Government to come back with concrete proposals for improved support schemes and other incentives to ensure protection measures and maintenance under the Culture Memory Act. This will be followed up from my side. At the same time, it is important that a stepping-up plan for annual appropriations should have a broader perspective than existing legislative proposals. This is an approach that is also most consistent with the Committee's request for the 2001 budget. In this context, I also refer to the national environmental objectives mentioned in the Ministry of the Environment's budget proposal, and to the measures announced in the General Communication on the Government's environmental protection policy and the state of the state of the state of the state, which actually announce budgetary follow-up in line with what the Committee has asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower.ana.ud1373e675	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower.ana.ud1373e678	I think the council came with a lot of good words in their posts, but there are still a few things I wonder about. In a letter to the Committee dated 26 November 1999, the Council of State Guro Fjlangeng wrote that the annual need for maintenance and refurbishment of peaceful buildings and installations has been estimated in total at approx. 65 million. kr. The state part of this is assumed to be 35 million. kr. If we multiply the state part by ten years, we're going to get, after a good old-fashioned school bill, 350 million. State crowns. According to a survey in the Evening Post on December 7, 1999, the Riksantikvaren reports that over the next ten years, the Ministry of the Environment will need DKK 1.5 billion. Can Guro Mountain Council tell Stortinget what cultural memories she intends not to take care of, as the difference between what is needed and the appropriations from the department is more than DKK 1 billion? I think it was very reassuring that the Council of State said that an important part of the government's policy is to improve the relationship with private owners, but I still want to ask: what measures, in addition to the reduced sample, will the Council of State take to achieve a greater interaction between the owners of individual cultural memories and the state, when we know that in the future we need to improve the apparatus up to cultural memories?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower.ana.ud1373e689	Let me briefly answer those two questions. When there are different numbers flying through the air, it is mainly due to the fact that the specific question raised by the committee, which I replied to, was limited to the state's share in order to obtain cultural memories consisting of peaceful buildings and installations, while the figures with which the Riksantikvaren has gone out relate to the entire cultural memory management as a whole, with all that falls under it. So that's very simply told the reason why the numbers are so different in the two estimates. With regard to the challenges I face in the future, and what action it is important to take, I fully agree that the most important thing we can do is to ensure better working conditions for all those who make a huge voluntary effort in the field of cultural memory protection. Then there are especially two groups I want to draw out. One group is the owner of cultural memories, which are often peaced buildings, where, in addition to having a support escalation plan, it is important that we continue to look at changes in taxes and taxes. It is important that we look at how we can achieve better coordination and targeting of the tools we have today, and not least how owners can gain easier access to technical assistance, because it is a problem that it takes a long time to get the technical assistance they are asking for. In addition, it is important, I think, to give the volunteer organisations good working conditions. There is also a background for the Government of the State budget for 2000 to increase support for voluntary organisations also in the field of cultural memory protection.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower.ana.ud1373e698	I think we need to recognise that the major challenges we face in the field of cultural memory will require cooperation between private and state actors. This is not a promise that alone can be taken by the state, nor a promise that alone can be taken by private individuals. However, this case has revealed that there is a conflict between the state and private owners of cultural memories. I think there were more positive signals from the Council today than what has been revealed by the proposition we have received, and the answers to the letters that have come to the committee. I wondered if the government parties have changed their perspective as they entered the government offices. Traditionally, the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party have defended private owners of cultural memories, been occupied by the private protection effort, while in this case they have primarily stood on the side of the state and imposed new private duties without having followed rights. My question to the Council of State is whether the treatment of this matter has made an impression on her. Because it is not to hide that the involvement of families, teams and associations has been very great in this matter, and where it has become very clear that those who have taken care of our cultural heritage through generations experience the state as an opponent more than a co-player. My second question to the Council of State is when there will be proposals for improvements. The government has already been instructed to come back with improvements on the financial side in the next budget, but when will there be legal improvements that will give the owners more rights and not just obligations in relation to cultural memory protection?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower.ana.ud1373e709	There is no doubt that we are facing major challenges. This means that we have to meet the major challenges with a great deal of realism and realize that part of this work has to be done over time. For example, in the case of: concerns the task of restoring the bridge in Bergen, which is now to start up, local forces even expect it to take several decades. It is important, not only in this case, but also in other contexts, that we have a clear objective, with a realistic progress plan. I fully agree with Mr Sanner that these are tasks that need to be resolved in cooperation between private and public authorities. As I said, I believe there is good reason to go in and look into the burden-sharing that we have today. It is also an important part of the mandate given to the Culture Memory Committee. That we have changed our attitude, of course, I will strongly reject, rather on the contrary. There's no doubt that we're very concerned about the cultural memory work. The legislative proposal we have tabled should also show where we, among other things, are. make important changes to a law that has not been passed since 1905. As to whether the treatment of the case has made an impression on me, it has of course. But I might say that it has first and foremost confirmed an impression I have already had. I have, not least in my two years as the Council of State, visited some people who take care of cultural memories, have them in private possession, and I hope and believe that I have a relatively good overview of the challenges they face. With regard to the proposal for improvements, this is something that the Government will work on continuously, both through budget proposals, by looking at taxes and taxes and through close cooperation with the cultural memory committee that has been set up and which also has this task, but not least in cooperation and close dialogue with the organisations concerned and the private owners.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower.ana.ud1373e722	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower.ana.ud1373e725	I should try to be short. I refer to the representative Pedersen's excellent posts on behalf of the Workers' Party, which I naturally put behind me. But I have some comments on what should be done more closely, and they are especially related to the area of possible findings. There's a lot of frustration, not least in that part of the country where I come from, because there's often a bond of land because of cultural memory or because of soil protection. Often there is also conflict between these two areas, and in sum there is little space for other purposes. We have – I think – a pedagogical problem. It's hard to make people understand how important cultural memory is. I think it's important, but it should be considered in relation to other considerations as well. I think, therefore, that the Government and the Council of State somehow have a problem when it comes to coming out with a greater degree of argument for why cultural memory is so important, because people face this as a problem in everyday life. They encounter it as an obstacle when building a house, when a road is to be diverted, when they are to pluck up the earth, etc. In Time municipality on Jären has one e.g. had one plot area where these excavations applied to each plot about. Extra NOK 10000. That cost is usually within the limits of the Husbank. But in another area, it was $100,000-150,000 per person. empty space that these excavations would cost. This means that the House Bank is out of date, which means that very many young people don't have the opportunity to buy these plots. I'm pretty sure the Council of State also knows how difficult it is with the area, even far beyond the Iron. It's not just a Stavanger problem, as far as just a Rogaland or West Norway problem is concerned. The letter from the Council of State states: «Of course, when this is said, it is not such that all ancient memories can be preserved forever. As in other areas of environmental protection, protection interests must be assessed in relation to other important social interests.’.» I agree with that. We now have a system in which matters are largely assessed on the basis of cultural protection. I would like to point out two aspects that I have drawn up, especially one in a written question to the Council of State, and that is that it is the same body – in the Rogaland Archaeological Museum – that says whether an area has to be dug out. They're the ones who tell you to dig it out, how much it costs, and they're the ones who do the job. It was the council's agreement is a bow and oatmeal situation, which is not capable of increasing the understanding and trust of the apparatus. I hope that one in the evaluations that come—because it is not now in place—can get a transformation of this, because it seems quite clear that there is a bow and oat bag situation, where the outsider and needing help feels completely abandoned to those who decide. When there's any appeal on such questions, it's also the Riksantik product that's appeals. And as far as I understand, the Riksantikvar does not make assessments of other social interests. Then I'm thinking of what at least in our everyday life is often the case, that a need for space for housing, a need for space for commercial buildings, a need for space for infrastructure. It is the current social interests that must be balanced against cultural protection interests. One might think that one could find a system where it was not necessary to dig out each inch, but that one in an area where it was found from a period of time might be able to dig up some of it. At least I hope that some of these issues will be assessed in the further work, because, as I said, there is a problem that I – and I believe many politicians with me – meet very often, and that we need to get a little better answers to than we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower.ana.ud1373e752	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. Otherwise, the President has noticed that with the next speaker, Jan Simonsen, six of the rogaland bench representatives have spoken, without the President having to characterise the debate and the content of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower.ana.ud1373e758	Of course, the rogalands bench is active in Stortinget. With its 22 employees, the Forsand Sandkompani A/S is one of the most important enterprises in a small municipality in Rogaland with less than 1000 inhabitants. Unfortunately for the company, the Archaeological Museum in Stavanger has discovered two tombs on the site where the sand is extracted. The museum has ordered the landowners to pay for the excavations. It's going to cost me $900,000. It makes it unprofitable for the owner to let the Sand Company continue with the sand extraction. If the expenditure is transferred to the holding, it will be unprofitable for the holding. In other words, the business is threatened to stop. Starting extractions on the neighboring plot is also currently not applicable, because there have been so unfortunate to find four tombs. The shipping company is not alone in having such problems. Graveyards are affected by farmers, municipalities that have to provide housing and businesses that are planning to expand their business. The accident happens at random and unfairly, because of course it is an accident for a farmer not to be able to exploit his agricultural land, for an enterprise to stop an extension that could give jobs, or for a sand company to stop its operations. It is quite alarming that the Minister for the Environment, in his letter to the Energy Committee, presents it as a good idea for the landowner that he will at all be given the opportunity to exploit his own land after excavating his ancient memories. So the landowners have to pay, and the expenses are in addition to losses due to delays. The state takes in the values, the community takes advantage of the excavations, while the individual landowner who is so unfortunate to have the tombs on his land has to pay. It's no less than hair travelers! It is both disappointing and surprising that a party such as the Right, which presents itself as a party fighting for private property rights, provisionally votes to maintain today's legislation, and does not at all do as the representative Sanner argued, defends private land ownership interests. Of course, this amendment of the law could be adopted today, and additional appropriations could be allocated to the necessary means to follow-up, through revision. It is also shocking, of course, that the Centre Party chooses to set aside both the concerns of landowners and the importance of industrial development in the districts. I note that the proposal will be examined by the Government and that a small step has thus been taken in the right direction. But the attitude of the Council of State which permeates the letter she sent to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection still makes me very little optimistic about a fair and sensible outcome.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower.ana.ud1373e771	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three. The morning meeting is thus over. [[See pages 196 and 199]] The new meeting at Odelstinget will be scheduled at 2.30 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
