ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2361e39	This case concerns the necessary legislative changes resulting from decisions and guidance from the Storting's management of the credit notification earlier today. In this case, two amendments to the Law of 10 June 1988 are proposed. 40 on financing activities and financial institutions. First of all, the general rule that no one can have more than 10 pst. of the share capital of a financial institution. The proposal allows other financial institutions to obtain ownership of up to 25 pst in connection with strategic cooperation agreements. in a Norwegian financial institution. The second amendment implies that the general meeting of parent companies in the financial group may decide, under more specific conditions, that the group may be organised with a parent holding company. The last point is a broad deal in the committee. When it applies to the first point, I'm going to comment on two ratios. There are questions about the consequences that the so-called Skandia judgment will have for this matter. This judgment applies to a case in which the Swedish insurance company Skandia had a owner's share in a company that did not run the insurance company. The owner part exceeded what was permitted under Swedish legislation. Skandia filed that such an order was contrary to EU law, and was supported by it. The Skandia judgment relates to the ownership of an insurance company in the insurance future. This is a different question than the one that this case concerns. The Ministry of Finance states that they argue that these are matters that will be discussed in the Banking Law Commission as part of the review of the capital management rules. It is also stated that the ESA has now drawn up with the Ministry of Finance how Norwegian legislation is in relation to the Skandia judgment. The ministry is working on responding to this, and the answer will be published. The second thing I want to mention is with the basic fund certificates. Save the banking association with the Committee that basic fund evidence capital in savings banks should also be subject to the exemption rule laid down in this case. To this end, I would like to stress that since the statements about the various types of basic fund certificates directly refer to the owner's delimitation rule in the Finance Act § 2-2, a change that the proposed person will therefore have a corresponding effect in relation to owning a basic fund certificate. This means that a savings bank will also be able to conclude a strategic cooperation agreement with the result that a owner will be allowed to hold up to 25 pst. of the basic fund capital. When it comes to the other issues, I refer to the Stortinget's broad debate on the credit notification earlier today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2361e67	I will confine myself to addressing the proposals of the Progress Party on this matter, which are all actually concerned with the harmonisation of major parts of Norwegian legislation by the EU. Then I will also give an explanation of vote in respect of Section 2-2, second paragraph, new paragraph. 10, which is the Government's proposal to open for 25 pst. Although one of the proposals of the Progress Party is to completely abolish ownership of the restriction rules, we will of course vote in favour of this in a subsidiary way. Our proposal is sent to the Stortinget, so that means we are doing a subsidiary voting here despite the fact that we cannot vote on our own proposal. I will nevertheless give the explanation in that way, so that it will not be misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2361e74	Siv Jensen has addressed the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2361e77	Since this amendment is about changing the ownership of financial institutions so that it is opened for ownership items of 25 pst. as part of a strategic cooperation agreement, I will only refer to the debate we had earlier today on the credit notification. This is not contrary to what we have said there, and on that basis we support from the Labour Party's side the change that has been proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2361e82	I would like to address the Right-wing proposal, proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox I would also like to inform you that the Right-wing Group will support proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. That proposal concerns something that could be argued by is unnecessary, namely to ask the Government to consider presenting to the Stortinget an assessment of the effects of the Skandia judgment on Norwegian legislation. But we have examples before that such things have taken an unnecessary long time, so we are voting for the proposal to have this evaluated for safety reasons. This is also seen as a explanation of vote: the reason why we do not vote in favour of part of the other proposals of the Progress Party is not that we disagree with them. We have even made similar and other proposals in the past with the aim of bringing Norwegian legislation for the financial industry into line with that in other countries, in particular our Nordic neighbouring countries. However, taking into account that these have been proposals that have been raised a number of times in the past and have been voted down, and we have now come so far that the Government has recognised the need for at least an assessment of changes - the changes come about through two public investigations, the Competition Board, as the Minister of Finance has mentioned in today's meeting, which is expected to put forward its position on 1 February or something later, and the fourth position of the Banking Commission, it will be well, and both of these issues will form the basis for propositions or proposals in another form to the Stortinget – then I think it would be unnecessary in December to re-approve the proposal and vote again. That is my reason – procedural, if that is the way it is. So to what's the difference in Right's proposal, proposal no. 5th@item: inlistbox This is in line with the Banking Act Commission on an essential point: we are going to go to 30 pst. exemption from the ownership restriction provision, and not 25 pst. All the hearing bodies have given a positive opinion on the proposals made by the Banking Law Commission. Some have also said about the second part of it, which is the difference, and it's actually the cryptic words in the fourth and fifth lines, where our proposal says 'or other than financial institutions'. In fact, I believe that the following is a significant point that perhaps others should consider as well: Is it so certain that the bank of the future will depend only on the possibility of such a derogation being granted to bank ownership or other financing activities? We know that banking, for example, is increasingly going to take place. be connected to the trading of goods through large chains, to telecommunications companies, to IT companies, etc. That a so-called industrial company, e.g. an Internet company, should be part of a newly formed bank, is not unimaginable, not unnatural, and I want to add: it is actually desirable, because this will challenge many common banking companies and for customers is something new and thus also a contribution to increased competition. That's our reason for it, and I dare say that in a few years -- maybe months, it's going fast here -- such a proposal to allow others to get such a derogation, will come back to the Storting, because there will be applications, wants to, to set up new institutions that can challenge the established. And anyone who talks hot about competition should see it in their interest to contribute to this – now or later.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2361e93	Per-Kristian Foss has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Add User-ID Succeeded [[Votation, see below.]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2361e103	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2361e109	In the course of the debate, five proposals have been put forward. It's: the proposals No 1 – 4, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party, proposal No. 5, from Per-Kristian Foss on behalf of the Right Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to further assess whether the principle established in the Skandia judgment should be fully implemented by Norwegian for the total funds of insurance companies. Such an assessment should be submitted together with the results of the Fourth Banking Commission’s investigation. ‘... Proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, says: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose the abolition of the ownership and voting restrictions of financial institutions governed by the Finance Act § 2-2 and § 2-4. ‘... Proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government is asked to draft proposals for a new provision of the Financial Activities Act in line with the requirements of the EU Directives for supervisory authorities to recognise the owners of significant holdings in credit institutions and insurance companies. ‘... Proposal No. 5, from the right, says: 'The Council asks the Government to submit as soon as possible proposals for amendments to the Law of 10 June 1988 No. 40 on financial intermediation and financial institutions so that novel or non-resident financial institutions or other than financial institutions may hold holdings of up to 30 p.m. by the share capital or voting rights of a financial institution. ‘... The proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2361e162	have understood that the Party for Progress and the Right will support the suspension in a subsidiary manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2361e205	We are going to go to proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, which reads: ‘In Act No 10 June 1988 No 39 on insurance enterprises is amended as follows: § 7-2 first paragraph is replaced by the following:An insurance company cannot own or represent more than 15 pst by voting. of the shares in a company which, under § 7-1, cannot be operated by an insurance company. This limit does not apply to ownership interests whose total value does not exceed the company's equity. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2361e236	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2361e243	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
