ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e37	The representative Erik Dalheim, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. From the delegation of the Grand Duchy to the 46th session of the Western European Union Parliamentary Assembly in Paris, there is an application, signed by the Head of the Delegation, Mr Fridtjof Frank Gundersen. The application concerns a period of leave from 30 November to 2 December for the representatives of Dag Danielsen, Odd Eriksen, Grethe Fossli, Ingvald Godal, Laila Kaland, Jørgen Kosmo, Hallgeir H. Langeland, Finn Kristian Marthinen and Fridtjof Frank Gundersen. The application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be adopted. – It is considered biphasic. The first representative of the State of Telemark, Gunn Marit Helgesen, is requested to be exempted from the meeting of the representative of Ingvald Godals' leave from 30 November to 2 December, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. For Akershus County: André Kukkestad and Rikke LindFor Buskerud County: Unni Hennum LieFor More and Romsdal County: Ottar KaldholFor Nordland County: Bears OlsenFor Oslo: Sissel Daily Street for Rogaland County: Ingrid FikaaFor Telemark County: Kari Lise HolmbergFor Vestfold County: Karin Lian3. Rikke Lind and Ottar Kaldhol are elected to Lamentationet for the time they meet the representatives of Grethe Fossli and Laila Kaland.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e134	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 – 3 is dealt with as a whole – and considers it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e164	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be organised as follows: The debate is held over two days, today and tomorrow, with a total speaking time of 8 hours and 10 minutes, excluding cord changes and 3-minute inserts. The number time is divided into groups as follows: Working Party 190 minutes, Progress Party 70 minutes, Christian People's Party 70 minutes, Right 65 minutes, Center Party 35 minutes, Socialist Left Party 30 minutes, Left 20 minutes and Representative Bastisen 10 minutes. The chord shift is proposed to be arranged as follows: Five replies are given after the speeches by the main speakers of the political groups, the parliamentary leaders, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, and three replies by speakers with 10 minutes or more, and after the speeches by the other state councils regardless of their length within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e181	This is the last budget debate in this millennium, and the budget we are going to adopt is a budget for the first year of the next thousand years. It provides a basis for reflection. It allows you to draw lines a little further than just one year. What is in the 2000 budget that will be thought in retrospect? One of the items is likely to be expanded to 18 years of age. Another is that fathers received independent dishes related to birth money for fathers. The specific minimum deduction for wages and salaries will also be considered. We have reason to be naked with the stand in our country. We have it – at least financially – very well. Employment is high and low in unemployment, although in some sectors and in some parts of the country there are major problems associated with low expansion activity in the petroleum sector. However, we should bear in mind that not everyone in our society will come out well – cf. what is documented in the Governmental Equalizer message. I also mean that it's important for us to be concerned about the big differences we see in the world community. The Bondevik Government and the Government Party have also this year shown the ability to steer economic policy in a good way. The government party marks the centre as an independent government option in the political landscape. We are continuing with this adjustment the stability of fiscal policy. It is particularly positive that there is a width behind the government's budget proposal with the modifications that have been made, as is now in the setting. Overall, there are no major changes that have been made. It is a fiscal arrangement that takes care of and facilitates good development in our country. The government's priorities will be passed on, as the setting once again shows that one has received support for the budget of the Labour Party. It is quite natural that those who support the draft budget should also have their say on it. It also happened last year and the year before. But unlike last year, we have not only subsidized support this year, but support for the budget as it is now to be decided. I consider this more binding for those with whom we have agreed. The working party shall vote in favour of this budget for e.g. the fleet tax system as a principle, the same share tax liability, the reimbursement scheme for seafarers osb. When I refer to these areas, it's assumed that I see it as valuable to business that it's possible to get political width behind the area that makes it possible to calculate the conditions in the future. We have been willing from the government parties to 'pay' for this. I'm fully aware that some people would argue that this is not stability. To that I would say that according to the political composition of Stortinget now has, it is the ruling party's arrangement that can gather broadest membership. I think that the centre party has been closed in giving stability to the framework conditions with varying partners in the budget at Stortinget. It also has this comparison with the Workers' Party synt, etc. by virtue of the fact that we have the power to maintain the framework conditions for the small enterprises owned by the family, both those which are personally owned and those which are limited companies. I would like to say a little about the division of labour in economic policy. It seems necessary to explain some of the budgetary work. Monetary policy must provide a stable exchange rate over time. And as I see it, it is a broad political affiliation to the monetary policy of the Government. Income policy must contribute to low price and wage growth through moderate wage settlements and thus strengthen our competitiveness. The social partners together with the government have a great responsibility here. Financial policy – the State budget – shall provide stability to ensure high, sustainable employment and avoid price pressures in the economy. At this budgetary position, the Government and the majority of the Stortinget have fulfilled their part of the responsibilities of economic policy. The neutral arrangement presented by the Government in its draft budget is maintained in the agreement with the Labour Party. I want to pay tribute to the Workers' Party for their participation in this, and that they have not made any unquestionable demands that could be so extensive that it would make it impossible to lead further the Government's superior financial policy. The underlying expenditure growth is higher than the growth in mainland Norway. I think it is desirable that the growth in GDP for mainland Norway and the underlying growth should be around the same level. What is important is that the underlying expenditure growth over time should not exceed the trend growth in mainland GDP. This is also not the case if we see it over some years. The growth of the regular arrangements plus the investments in priority areas where there is a wide political deal here in the house, among others. health, is a major cause of the level of under-expenditure growth. In the future, it is likely that the Storting will have to adopt measures within the regular schemes which may be unpopular but which may be necessary to ensure a good policy of distribution and the essential foundations of the welfare society. Important issues for the centre party characterize the budget setting. We are continuing the reforms adopted in the field of care for the elderly and health. In addition, there is room for increased efforts in the area of district policy and in the area of the local economy, and in the area of international aid and the environment. Exploitation, research and innovation are also priority areas in the budget. I would also like to point out that most of the revenue from the oil business is allocated to the oil fund. This is important in order to avoid excessive pressure on the economy, and it is important to set aside reserves to meet future challenges when oil revenues are gradually decreasing. I believe that the budget provides for an innovative and knowledge-based business that will be involved and secure well-being in the future, as much of the value creation must come from new industries. Means for implementing the action plan for small and medium-sized enterprises will be increased. One of the most important tools for nutrition and district development, SND, is strengthened. A scheme has been put in place for research results to be used to develop new products and to start new ones. The regional seed capital scheme is expanded by the establishment of a new fund for the internal Ausland area. I would also like to point out that the areas in the business community that currently have problems, including the housing industry, are getting a lot of attention in the setting. Among other things, taxes on the continental shelf will have a good impact on the activity of the oil-related industry. And in the budget agreement with the Workers' Party, we agree on a plan of measures for dismissals and lay-offs at the offshore and in the supply industry. In the case of fiscal policy, the budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party has led to changes. There is now an increase in the tax and tax level of NOK 2.3 billion charged for next year, or NOK 3.5 billion incurred. This corresponds to an increase of 0.7 pst., which is on line with the real increase in the gross domestic product of mainland Norway. This means I'm defensive to do, when at the same time you see that there's a redistribution, where those who care least get the best out. They're getting relatively large tax havens. The only wage earner group that receives a notable tax increase is wage earners with more than an average Prime Minister's salary, over NOK 762,000. The changes in fees are mainly environmental and energy taxes, which are in line with the principle set out in the Green Tax Alert. Families with 16- and 17-year-olds are between budget winners, when child-restraint is extended to 18-year-olds from 1 May. I would also like to say that there is room for a reduction in customs duties in relation to developing countries, and that is a good touch for the poor in the world. The budget we are to adopt is a good budget. And as far as it's possible for a government budget, I believe this budget will give a good start to the next thousand years. With this I will recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e230	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e233	I agree with the committee's leader that in many areas things are going well in this country, and I think it will go even better after the agreement with the Labour Party, because at least it has progressed in the right direction. But more than a year ago, we saw that the situation in the shipbuilding and offshore industry, which was also commented on by the committee's leaders, would be difficult, with the result of permits and cancellations. The working party presented a business package in connection with the revised national budget where we said we should have more for research, more for fishing ports, more for student housing, more for kindergartens, more for decentralised higher education and universities, more for field reduction of production fees and reduction of CO2 charges until the offshore sector was included in the quota system. And we got multiples for these suggestions, but not with the center. In spite of the serious situation in this industry that one was made aware of, the government was not offensive even when it presented the budget this year, but as the leader of the committee pointed out, one in the agreement with the Workers' Party has created a plan for both the industry and the employment where one not least sees the need for more action places in the labour market – several measures that may allow one to retain the competence that this industry, which is now, for some time to come, has been working up for many years. And then my question to the committee is its leader: has the leader in the committee now seen the need to take this sector seriously, and can he also pass it on to the Government, so that in next year's budget, she takes this seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e244	I thought it was nice to hear from the representative of Frøiland that she boasts of the agreement we have agreed on. It's a good deal, I don't have a problem saying it. I would like to reject the fact that the Government has not taken these issues seriously by Frøiland. It is enough to show what has been announced in the context of the revision, where one now says that one reduces the production fee and the CO2 charge osb. I think of the agreement we have, with the references made to this part of the industry, that it will be possible to find good arrangements that can be in the future. And of course I'm going to bring greetings to the government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e251	Me and the Progress Party are really concerned, we are concerned that the Christian People's Party, which in practical politics otherwise emphasizes the importance of not changing partners too often, now partners change in the way they have done. And while the Christian People's Party, as the greatest driving force in the government, has changed partners, they have been with and failed them as the Christian People's Party in practical politics always says they take care of them. When the Christian People's Party enters into a budgetary settlement with the Workers' Party and breaks the programme of action for the 1997-2001, where the Christian People's Party says they should build a warmer society with Christian fundamental values, it is not just the Progress Party that is concerned, then the Norwegian people are concerned. It is justified that the families of children in the budgetary settlements we have had have been the ones that the Christian People's Party has told them to strengthen every year. On page 20, under Chapter 6, the Family Centre states that ‘a family tax that strengthens the economy of small children’s families, one-income families, one-parent families’ are important elements to which the Christian People’s Party will place emphasis. When the children's families get a real drop in the child's pension of over DKK 1 billion, when we see savings schemes like AMS being removed, when we see that we have a dramatic increase in taxes, when we see that the house tax has become a dairy cow, and when we see that the electricity charge at the top of this increases, it's clear that the effects of going to bed with Thorbjørn Jagland become dramatic for the Norwegian people. I would like to ask whether this is the morality on which the Christian People's Party, as a driving force in the new central government, is to build its policy further.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e258	There has been no mention of marriages in any connection with the Progress Party. We have entered into a budgetary agreement one year at a time, and we have had the most graceful – I have the impression – subsidiary support from the Progress Party to our budget. I also thought that Vidar Kleppe might think about it before he spoke on behalf of the Norwegian people. I am proud of the Christian People's Party's family policy. I have nothing to be ashamed of in that way. And I thought it was wrong to use words like 'dramatic' about the small increase that has been made when it relates to taxes and taxes in this budget with the agreement we have concluded with the Workers' Party. At the same time, I would like to commend the Progress Party for being with them and taking responsibility for the two previous budgets, also that they were involved in the implementation of the cash support, which was a very important matter for the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e267	I might not have expected the Progress Party to be the ones who raised questions about marriage and fiances into the debate now, but it's okay with full transparency at least. [[Laughter]] I am dealing with the head of the Finance Committee, Christian People's Party Lars Gunnar Lie, who began by saying that he would stick to the general questions. I would like to challenge him on general questions, and ask the question: what is the center course? It is a question which his parliamentary leader has on a number of occasions tried to answer with ever-increasingly new definitions, which are still abandoned. Wingling and abandoning positions appear as a sort of anchoring of values. I want to quote from a magazine that came out last year. It's called Horizon and it's coming out in Bergen. All three government parties were asked what they think about the AMS scheme. The centre batch replied: ‘The authorities should stimulate schemes such as the current AMS scheme’.The Christian People’s Party replied that they would ‘propose increased savings incentives’, while the Left was exemplaryly clear:‘While the Ap will repeal the AMS scheme, the central government has ensured that it is maintained’. So this was said and written last year. Can Lars Gunnar Lie tell me about the value of the position the party now has in the AMS, where the party for the first time in two decades has contributed to making it clear that no labor party government has previously done, namely to abolish the AMS scheme? The fact that the Workers' Party is on it and has always stood on it, I disagree with them, but respect it, but that the Christian People's Party is now practicing the opposite of what they themselves have claimed until quite recently, I have some problems to understand. So I challenge him not to explore the numerical popularity or provenance of the arrangement, but the value side and the Christian People's Party's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e287	I have to say it surprises me that the representative Foss makes the issue of tax credits associated with the AMS an overarching ideological question. It has never been for the Christian People's Party nor will it be. Foss is busy with wings. To that I would like to repeat briefly that last fall it was well about – as far as I recall – that the Right considered joining the Labour Party. It's probably not winging. When it comes to what is central policy, it is set out in the Adult Declaration. We will take responsibility and cooperate with everyone who shows a willingness to take responsibility, regardless of the side of the policy on which they stand. The overarching policy objective of the centre profile is within a defence budget framework to create a centre profile. We have been able to do that with different support. Last year it was possible to get it together with the Right and the Advance Party. This year, the Labour Party has shown interest, and we have managed to reach an agreement with the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e296	The chairman of the Committee began by saying that he would go through what would be remembered from this budget. If I'm going to be completely honest, I think the few people are going to remember anything, maybe other than changing alliance partners in this budget compared to the two previous budgets. Because if there's something that characterizes what's going to be adopted here, it's very little ambitious and almost boring. I think in this way that a good definition of central policy is not just winging, but what will be adopted at any time. It also shows the chairman of the committee to the full. What surprises me most about this budget is that you don't use the space we have, that you're not more ambitious. The chairman of the Committee also said that this was the last budget debate in our millennium, where the long lines have been drawn. But there's no long lines here, there's a lot of day-to-day politics. But there's a considerable space for action if you want to take advantage of it. And that's my challenge to the chairman of the committee. Especially in the election campaign, which marked much of the beginning of the fall, there was a lot of concern about education, and that education was key to the next millennium, that education – from primary to secondary school, college and university – is the key to making us less oil addicts and to creating the knowledge society that everyone sees us coming into. Then we see that there comes a budget from the Government that is not at all committed to education. On the contrary, there is a reduction in many items. And then you make a budget deal where some of the items are increasing, but you're also cutting on education. Education is probably the least ambitious and most marked of day-to-day policies. If you want to take the Government's own basic document, the Adult Declaration, seriously – and I have more and more doubts that we should, but we should – then there are many ambitious and right goals for what we want with Norwegian school. My question to the chairman of the committee is this: does this mean that we should not take the Waxenås declaration seriously and that education is not a priority area for this government?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e308	Yes, the Government and the Center are taking the challenge seriously. I agree with the representative, Djupedal, that it is important to have a special focus on this side of our society. It also has the government taking responsibility for it. In addition to what is within the budget that came from the government, in the budget agreement with the Labour Party, we have increased the appropriation to municipalities and county councils, which also have consequences for the school. I am serious about the fact that the Socialist Left Party's 10 billion stake for the school is not realistic in terms of having a defensive budget in balance.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e313	The chairman of the committee didn't say much about the municipal economy at its inception, but I've been thinking about it in the line. The local economy is the most typical example of this government’s having kept that promise far from it. On the contrary, it has never been promised as much and kept as little in terms of local economy as in terms of the centre parties. And even worse than that: the last budgetary comparisons have been so bad for the local economy that they haven't even kept the Workers' Party promise, and that after all was less than the center promised. So the result is bad. Now we see that from the accounts of the municipalities, where the deficits are greater than ever. We are doing something about this in the budget agreement, because in total, in terms of free money and earmarked subsidies, we are getting a boost in the local economy of one billion dollars. We are pleased, and not least, that much of the growth comes from free resources, which makes it easier for municipalities to solve the problems we impose on them, among other things. in the school sector, which was the very topic here. However, in addition to the fact that the framework has been too small, the clear intention of the Stortinget and the government at that time had, when it came to obtaining a redistribution to those municipalities that currently have the least – the follow-up to the so-called Rattsø Committee – has not been fulfilled. The municipalities include: around the Oslofstord, which has always had the least to offer to its inhabitants, has come out too badly, and the figures show that this is still the case. A comment in the setting says that we now need to have a review of this with a view to fulfilling what was intention at the time, that the municipalities that have the least will get a growth. When the chairman of the Committee says that the agreement is more binding this year because we do not vote in favour of the budget in a subsidiary way, but as it exists, my question becomes: is it that the government parties too feel obliged to follow up the comment that will provide the strengthened economy for the least economically weak municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e324	I understand that Dag Terje Andersen has the sense to send a greeting to Vestfold, and we would like to look at Vestfold, but I think we need to see the whole country together when we talk about the local economy. From the government's side, there were 500 million. kr more than what was in the municipal proposition last spring, which the Labour Party was also supporting. The government's proposals in the local economy are more targeted district policies. I agree with Dag Terje Andersen that free means should be more in relation to the municipalities, but it is relatively easy to send the ball back to the Labour Party because of the reforms that the Labour Party has carried out in the past, which have necessarily had to be tied up in the form of ear-marked means.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e331	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e334	Following the change of government in 1997, the Bondevik Government cooperated with the Progress Party and the Right on economic policy for both 1998 and 1999. This cooperation led to a clear turn of policy towards the right. Social welfare schemes that were attacked by the sick pay scheme, labour market measures were cut to the bone, school leisure grants were halved, and child care development ended up at a historic low level. It was also during this broad civil cooperation that we got a strangely high level of interest rate that we have now worn for a year and a half. Families, businesses and municipalities have paid the bill. For the Workers' Party, a fairer distribution was an important objective for the budget negotiations we conducted in the autumn. The budget agreement for 2000 has become a contribution to a fairer distribution. The rich have to pay more to the community. Those with the lowest pay get more of a living. The local economy is being improved and important welfare schemes are being strengthened. And, in particular, we have achieved a more offensive business and employment policy and a separate action plan for the workshop industry and the supplier industry. The budget agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties provides for tax relief for the lowest wage income of more than DKK 1 billion. For part-time employees with 75 000 kroner and 100000 kroner respectively in employee income, the tax will be 4 300 kroner and 2850 kroner. In particular, low incomes, part-time workers, social workers with some income, as well as social security and school students and students with jobs, are in line with the studies that benefit from tax reductions. The Labour Party considers the introduction of the new wage deduction of NOK 30 600 as a first step in a tax reform for the lowest wage incomes. The minimum deduction for the day may be replaced in full by a pay deduction which improves the distribution profile. In the first place, i.e. until next year, 500000 persons with their own earnings up to DK 140 000 receive tax relief in their own equation as a result. All the experience shows that it is those who earn little and who work part-time, who want to work more if they keep more of their wages. Not least in the care professions, we will depend on more people being willing to work more. Then it must also be more profitable to work there. The new salary deduction is an important contribution here. The new payroll allowance will also make it more profitable to go from social security to work. Many insured people today have little profit from going from social security to a often poorly paid job, preferably part-time. For pension income, the tax treatment next year provides tax relief for pensions up to approximately NOK 160000. This is primarily due to the increase in the minimum deduction and the reduction in the so-called asset add-on for those taxed under the tax reduction rule. In addition, the pensioners who have some income in addition to their pensions will of course enjoy the payroll allowance as all other employees with low incomes. The social profile of the tax regime next year is thus maintained for both employees and pensioners. The tax rate for the lowest-paid is not paid by looking at the budget balance. It is primarily paid out of increased taxes for those who have the most, and there are shipping companies, owners of commercial buildings, traders with the highest income and a new peak tax of 6 pst. for income above 762 700 kroner. In other words, the tax is financed by redistribution. The budget agreement also provides for important restrictions on the special company tax scheme, and there is also agreement to increase the tonnage tax for shipping companies. But there is reason to stress that despite these regulatory tightenings, shipping companies still have a very favourable tax regime. Through the budgetary agreement, we have also reached agreement on the tightening of the sharing model. So far, there are so-called liberal professions, such as: dentists, artists, architects and brokers, were able to avoid large parts of the tax by giving shares in the company to parents and authoritative children. These options are now being tightened up. The working party has long considered that a system of tax advantages relating to the placing of capital in unit trusts and individual shares is poorly suited to a tax system in which tax equal treatment of different types of savings is attempted. We therefore have an agreement now that this special tax advantage to one special savings scheme is being abolished. For the Workers' Party, work for all is the overall objective of economic policy. The solidarity option pushed unemployment down in Norway during the 1990s. We saw growth in employment in industry and in other competitive activities. Although unemployment is currently generally low in Norway, at the same time we see serious signs of increasing unemployment, especially in the shipbuilding and large-scale supply industries to the oil sector. In 1998, the number of jobs in industry fell for the first time in five years. The labour force survey for the third quarter of this year shows a decline of 25 000 persons employed in industry since the corresponding quarter last year. The Norwegian economy is in a growth break after one of the strongest growth periods in recent times. Activity growth this year is expected to be the weakest in 10 years. Industrial investment in mainland Norway is estimated to fall by a total of 22 pst from the Government in the national budget. in 1999. In addition, the government estimates that next year's fall in petroleum investment will be 34 pst. Such severe reductions in investment will, of course, lead to a reduction in activity elsewhere in the economy. In this situation, it is important to set up policies to mitigate the sharp decline in investment. Then the negative results of activity and employment are reduced. For the Workers' Party, this has been an important starting point for the arrangement of economic policy and the negotiations we have conducted with the central parties on the budget. The Labour Party has long argued that the Government has been overly passive to these challenges. The government's approach to industry has been inadequate. The government's labour market policy has also been too weak. An increase in notified 500 sites, from a very low level, to 7,500 sites, as proposed by the Government, is far from enough to meet the expected situation in industry next year. For the Workers' Party, it was therefore clear that the budget had to be given a much more offensive profile in the field of industry and employment. The expenditure side of the budget had to be more structured in such a way as to improve the competitiveness of industry and strengthen income policy cooperation. Training, investment measures and competent labour market measures will then be necessary. Competence must be strengthened, both for those in work and for the unemployed. Increased use of labour market measures will contribute to greater flexibility in our labour market. It is therefore positive and gratifying that the government parties in the negotiations here in Stortinget have wanted to meet us in these important areas. The budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties means that the tightness of the budget and the growth of expenditure are maintained at the same level as in the Government's proposals. It has been important to set up budgetary policies in such a way that the state budget does not contribute to gas or slow down the economy. The tax increase at the top is used for tax relief, mainly for those with low incomes. Expenditure increases are covered by crowns with cost cuts. Thus, the budget agreement does not change the oil-corrected deficit in relation to the government’s arrangements. On the other hand, the layout of the revenue and expenditure side of the budget has been concerned with changing. I have already discussed how the budget agreement provides for better distribution and more balanced and growth-oriented composition of government budget expenditure. In addition, it was important for the Workers' Party to increase efforts in key welfare areas. The budget agreement provides for the reintroduction of the entitlement to sick pay for low wages from 1 January 2000. This court was, as you know, removed from the Centre Party's previous budgetary conciliation with the Right and the Advance Party. The government parties realized that this was wrong and wanted to adjust back from 1 July. Now it is corrected from 1 January. In the election campaign, everyone was concerned that the school should be strengthened. Many of the principals that I and probably more met in the election campaign showed that they almost completely lacked resources to make the teaching more interesting for the students. Some people said they had between $8 and $10 to spend per person. students for the type of activity. Now that the local economy is significantly strengthened in relation to the government's arrangements, we can change this. I want to use an example: if the increase in the free resources that come to the municipalities now was just to be used at school, this would amount to well over 800 kroner per year. student. If we are to do this, the school must also be given priority in the municipalities. The municipal scheme for the following year represents an increase in the framework grant for the primary municipalities by DKK 1⁄2 billion and for the county municipalities by 150 million. kr in addition to the scheme of the Government. In addition, several earmarked grants are increased, so that the municipal economy as a whole is strengthened by DKK 1 billion as a result of the budgetary agreement. The regional hospital allowance is also increased by 35 million. kr. I have mentioned the school leisure system before. It was strongly cut in cooperation between the right parties and the centre parties. Now we've gotten an increase of 100 million. kr, which will almost bring the grant back where it was before the cuts started. After two years of high-ranking kindergarten development in this country, it is now set up to build 6,000 new kindergartens for children under 3 years of age, and in the agreement we have placed 2 000 places for those over 3 years of age – a total of 8 000 new kindergartens next year, while the year’s target was 2 500. The budget agreement also represents an increase of 100 million. kr in the operating grant to kindergartens next year. This will make it possible to reduce the parental payment somewhat. Universities are in the midst of important conversion work, such as: will be essential for the reform of continuing training. In the budget agreement, we have therefore found room to strengthen universities and decentralised higher education by 120 million. kr. There has also been room to strengthen the construction of student housing. 1000 dwellings are to be built next year. There are twice as many people as the central government had suggested. The Labour Party is also pleased that we have got the first step in a reform of free school books in high school. We have known for a long time that the shipyard and supplier industries will have major problems next year. The Labour Party has therefore struggled to give us a more active business and employment policy that can help mitigate the decline in investment and offer active offers to those who are being outsourced or cancelled. The budget agreement in the autumn involves a doubling of the renewal rate in the ferry and a significant increase in the renewal of the fishing fleet. It will provide loving assignments for several shipyards along our coast that are now struggling with thin order books. In order to rapidly generate more investment in the oil sector, the production charge will escalate to areas that have more ready-to-construct additional projects. The measures contained in the financial situation will undoubtedly ensure more jobs in vulnerable industries next year. Nevertheless, we do not exclude that the number of people available and on leave at the offshore yards and in the supplier industry will increase. In order to maintain and develop the competences of these industries, and also to be needed in the years to come, which is of enormous importance to the communities we are talking about, it has been important for us to increase the number of action areas in the budget agreement. That means 3,500 more than the government proposed. The overall budgetary agreement between the Workers’ Party and the Centre Parties for the year 2000 therefore represents an important turn of policy towards better distribution, job security and well-being. An important question that arises from the budgetary agreement between the centre parties and the Workers' Party this autumn is whether the centre parties have now recognised that lasting cooperation with the right parties will lead policy in the wrong direction. The political basis for this year's budgetary agreement was laid when the central parties made it clear that it was only with the Workers' Party that they could have a majority for a good policy of distribution. In other words, a new budgetary agreement with the right-wing parties would have led the policy in the wrong direction. Willing distribution is primarily reflected in the current tax arrangements in the budget agreement. However, the framework of the local government sector is also important for good distribution and for the prioritisation of welfare and employment. In other words, a more equitable distribution policy has to go through the whole of the economy. That's why it's important in this debate what the central parties really think about political alliances in the future. It's hard, as I see it, one year to bet on better distribution through a collaboration with the Workers' Party, for then next year, in alliance with the right parties, to put a line all over it. Therefore, there is reason to argue that the budgetary agreement between the Centre and the Workers' Party could form the basis for new alliances in Norwegian policy, alliances that will have an impact on how the large welfare tasks will be solved in the first few years of a new hundred years.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e410	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e413	The present draft budget for public hospitals for the year 2000 together with the operating deficits for 1999 could lead to a national health crisis next year. In 1999, regional hospitals alone will have a budget deficit of approx. Three hundred million. kr. We do not know the budget deficits for the other public hospitals in 1999, but we know they will be significant. If nothing is done about this from the Biggest side now, we will have a drastic reduction in patient treatment next year, as the vast majority of county councils do not have the opportunity to add larger proportions themselves. My question to the representative Hill-Marta Solberg will then be: Will the representative Hill-Marta Solberg and the Labour Party be able to support a proposal from the Progress Party that a deficit for 1999 be covered by the balance sheet for hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e425	The representative Alvheim raises a very important issue that at its core contains the following: whether some of our important welfare schemes are well-funded. I also believe that there is reason to look very carefully at this, not least in view of the overall situation we have been presented with with regard to the local government sector, which, as was said earlier today, is now in a situation where it has a greater deficit than it has had in ten years. I think we should pay great attention in the future to the fact that the situation in a number of important welfare areas is very demanding for the municipal sector to deal with, including the county municipalities. It has also made it necessary for the Workers' Party to strengthen both the primary municipalities and the counties of the budget agreement we have entered into with the centre. 150 million. kr more is given to the counties. Hopefully, this will also mean something to the health service and the hospital sector. In addition, 35 million. the eartag of the regional hospitals. So to the question of what the Workers' Party will do in aging. Now it's the way that traditional aging ended The Storting two or three years ago, so we don't have such a round before Christmas that we once had, and that's of course the representative Alvheim is aware of. But I would like to say the following: If it is the government v/health minister comes to Stortinget and makes it clear that there is a dramatic situation in hospitals, as some hospital representatives claim, of course the Workers' Party must also be involved in and evaluate it. But it must be that the Stortinget must then be presented with an assessment by the responsible government and the responsible department of what this situation really is.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e434	First, I would like to stress that I am well satisfied with the positive report given by the representative of Solberg to the budget agreement, an agreement which, in my view, also extends the priorities set out by the Bondevik Government in the budget, with the strengthening of areas such as health, elderly people, districts, families with children and international assistance. I want to enter an area where it has been harder to get the Labour Party to speak. As I pointed out in my article, in the budget we have an underlying growth that should be lower. My first question to Solberg's representative is whether she's agreed on it. Then I'd like to know if the Labour Party can imagine being willing to look at some of the regular arrangements that bind the budget to such a great extent.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e443	On the first question from the representative, it is very easy to answer yes. The Labour Party fully agrees that a major challenge in the Norwegian economy – perhaps one of the largest – is the underlying growth we have in government expenditure. This was also the reason why the Workers' Party had taken the aim of not helping to increase this growth in the negotiations. Neither have we. That's why we've also taken the hard job of covering the heads for the costs we wanted. This may have led to some tears being killed in the government quarter, and perhaps also elsewhere, but it has been absolutely necessary, just so that we should not push the expenditure growth further up. So here there's no reason neither Lars Gunnar Lie nor anyone else to doubt that the Workers' Party is very conscious of the need to keep the expenditure increase in check. The last question I think is in many ways that a general question is almost impossible to answer, because I can't guess riddles and therefore, when I'm not so good at it, I can see what the representative Lie really thinks about. If, for example: Thinking that we should make dramatic changes in the population's population to reduce the underlying expenditure growth, I imagine that there are not so many areas where the Labour Party and Centre agree. If he thought we were going to reduce the health pay scheme, the central parties also know that the Workers' Party does not think it is right. A general answer to that question is simply not possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e451	The representative Hill-Marta Solberg talked about many things, so many that I actually came to associate it with a syllable that sounds like this: «Marta, Marta! You worry about a lot of things. But one is necessary." The Workers' Party has now run the annual financial debates on one matter for two years, namely the resistance to the cash support. It has been the one crucial issue that has made it impossible to cooperate with the Government. On 2 June 1998, when the government was still preferentially communicated with it through open letter in the newspaper, the leader of the Workers' Party wrote the following: ‘The best thing we could do for the children in Norway now is to improve Norwegian school, not to spend money that will trigger an interest rate and price spiral that will threaten homes and homes again.’ The quotations are numerous as the stars of heaven and the sand of the sea, and all the quotations in the last two years from the working party have been on the point that it will never be able to cooperate with the Government as long as it continues the cash support as a policy. Now the representative Hill-Marta Solberg did not say a single word about the matter, and despite the fact that the Workers' Party insists that this budget is not backed by subsidiary support, but by skin and hair – that is. The working party shall be without prejudice to the content of this budget. In normal circumstances, this would be called a political loathing. When it comes to cooperation with a Christian People's Party-led government, it's more close to talking about a conversion. Conversions are not always easy to explain rationally. Nevertheless, I will allow myself to ask the representative Hill-Marta Solberg: what has happened that has caused the Workers' Party to turn 180 degrees around and now stand behind it as a former State Secretary in the Children's and Family Department of the Evening Post a few days ago put it this way: "We believe that cash support is an ambush on working women." Is the Workers' Party now a participant in this ambush?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e466	We are after all many in Stortinget who have taught us that for the representative of Wage it is much more natural to quote Scripture than the state budget, and we got an example of that today. Then also the representative's salary is concerned that the Workers' Party is completely behind a budget, also a budget where there are actually things we disagree with, such as the cash support. I have to take advantage of that opportunity to say a little bit about it. So we do not want to act as the Right Party and the Progress Party did last year and last year, namely to enter into an agreement on the budget and to take credit for providing the country with a budget, because it appeared as responsible parties that kept the economy in order, and then to be able to shoot in the same budget on the first occasion. In our opinion, it is not really up to us to take responsibility for the conclusion of an agreement on the next year's budget. The working party does not want to be in that situation. It means, in particular, in the case of cash support, that the Workers' Party has clearly stated that we assume that the cash support is in the budget, it is a majority in the Stortinget that is in favour of it. We are not for that, but when we are to conclude a budgetary agreement with the central parties, it also means that the cash support is at the bottom of the government budget. But the representative, like the rest of the Stortinget, knows very well that the Workers' Party is committed to this scheme and will be so in the future, and will therefore do what we can to intervene with the evaluations and hopefully changes that will come into that scheme in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e473	I am pleased to record the post that Hill-Marta Solberg now had, where it was clear that a person is now interested in using his opposition role here in Stortinget for a much more solution-oriented work in relation to what Storting is going to do, and not least in relation to the issues that the Government is raising. But I want to pick up an area that I thought the Labour Party was a little too often too busy. This applies to future jobs and to framework conditions related to industrial development. I think it's right to say that the future jobs come in small and medium-sized enterprises, and many of them are not created. We need more creators. I agree with the Labour Party that we need workers, but we also need more workers, people who want to spend their savings on creating business, who are developers, drive product development, will invest in production equipment, machinery and travel, will invest in construction and construction – these are important inputs. We often get the answer from the Labour Party that these represent a group in society that becomes wealthy and wealthy. This is why attacks on both tax systems are regularly related to the sharing model, which primarily stimulates us to have active, non-profit-making owners, stock discounts, etc. My question is: What is the Workers' Party's concrete action to get more workers in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e478	It is tempting to reply to the representative Holte by asking him to look back on the last few years and the developments we have had in Norway in terms of increasing the number of jobs also in small and medium-sized enterprises, and also in all the years when the Workers' Party has actually also been responsible for political governance by being in government. Then the representative Holte would see that there is no evidence at all as to what he is trying to suggest, namely that the Workers' Party does not have a policy that makes it possible to establish jobs in this country. But what we're actually experiencing now is that from last year's harvest to this harvest, while the central government has been sitting and overthrowing, we have lost 25 000 jobs in the industry. After a laborious work that led to a return to industrial employment in Norway, we are now in the situation that we have lost 25 000 jobs in industry in recent years. And then there is no reasonableness in the fact that the representative Holte is trying to make it so that there is a centre that can do this by facilitating jobs here in the country, and not the Workers' Party. It is absolutely necessary that we be able to have room for small and medium-sized enterprises to grow and grow in the years to come, and we also have room for that in the framework conditions that exist in Norway today. There's no doubt about it. What the Labour Party has been concerned about is that we should have a tax system where there are no gaps and where it is not appropriate to adapt in such a way as to place your income so that you can avoid taxation. The working party believes that the centre parties together with the right parties in some areas have created solid holes in the tax system. So we want to close them down again. We've got a little bit more in this budget agreement, but we should have done a little bit more in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e488	In EN we welcome the budgetary agreement between the Labour Party and the Centre. The influence of the Right and Advance Party in Norwegian policy is weakened, and SV is given greater opportunities to challenge the bulk of the issues that we see are most important. Having said that, this budgetary agreement could not have been less extensive and more modest. We see it as a center-center settlement, and not a center-left settlement. This leads, for example, to: not to make the golfing colds in Bogstad shake of fright, nor to a turbulent little jitter. Nor is it that there are cheers around in the country’s many classrooms because there are now really other balls. I want to use the opportunity to challenge the Workers' Party and Hill-Marta Solberg to indicate a direction for the years to come. For that is what is interesting about this budgetary agreement: what should be the direction and level of ambition of the Labour Party in the future? Since 1993, private consumption in Norway has increased significantly more than public consumption, and that is why the paradoxes we see in our own everyday lives every day, that it lights up from the malls, while the schools are run down and full of tired teachers. There's a difference that people don't want to find out in time. Quite a lot of us will demand that what we think is most important, school and health, should have the best standard. Will the Labour Party contribute to setting a target for the years ahead, that the growth of the public sector in securing the common good should be greater than the growth of the private sector? Only in this way can welfare goods and joint solutions be secured in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e501	In the past, I have pointed to the fact that we may be facing a situation where important welfare systems in our society are being underfunded. I believe it is a question that the Storting must take very seriously in the future. It's not least about how we manage to add enough resources to the public sector, it's about education, it's about health, and it's about other important welfare areas. And as I also said in that reply, when we look at the situation in the municipalities, which are the ones who are going to implement the welfare policy we want in this country, it is necessary to go into it quite badly. And then it's also important for the Workers' Party that we manage to create a political majority in this country that doesn't have the primary objective of cutting in those areas that don't have the primary objective of getting tax relief, or zero growth, which you kind of said you were happy with last year, where you went into the political work in the Grand Duchy with one goal in mind, namely to avoid tax increases and tax increases. After all, there has been the objective of the budgetary negotiations that have been conducted in the previous two years between the right parties and the centre. The Labour Party not only believes that we are absolutely sure that it is driving us in the wrong direction, even in relation to the great and important welfare tasks. On the question of the need for growth in the public sector, I think we need to realise that this is absolutely necessary. We are not able to achieve a better health policy in this country without it cost us anything. Nor can we get to a better school without it costing anything. I think we have to get to that recognition if we're to make sure these important areas are well-funded in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e510	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e513	This is a wonderful debate on an even more wonderful budgetary settlement. In the previous two years, then, the centre parties have negotiated with the Right and the Advance Party, and the budgetary agreements, or the subsidiary agreement, focused primarily on how to avoid tax and tax cuts – yes, even how to get some relief. And it was about strengthening efforts in all, all the most important areas of action; care for the elderly, health, defence and politics. Afterwards, the Government, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance of all the bodies they have been, has boasted unrelentingly of the developments that the Norwegian economy has had. It's all right. The interest rate goes down. The state has never made more money. Then comes the illogical consequence that as a thank you for doing so so well, you jump to the opposite side of the political scale and work with the Workers' Party. Then you can sit down and look at the budget deal. What does it contain? Well, the reality is that you've moved on about. 0.4 pst. by the State budget – 0,4 pst.Oh, my God! Then we hear the Workers' Party say that now we finally got a government budget that smells good working party policy. So it took 0.4 pst. to turn centre policy into a good working party policy. It is in itself quite illustrative, both for this debate and perhaps even more for the future development we can see if this relationship of love between these four parties is going to continue. The Labour Party has even gone so far as to say that the budget agreement has almost resulted in the full implementation of the Workers' Party's programme, so they will soon have to start creating a new programme because they do not have any more policies again. The Husband of Touching Unity! But even though these are 0.4 pst. whereas, strictly speaking, this has not led to the state moving so much money; whereas budgetary conciliation has quite dramatic consequences for individuals, for businesses, and indeed for municipalities outside; The electricity price goes up. I've been wondering and listening to both the committee's head and Hill-Marta Solberg tell about how great this bidding settlement is, especially for those who have the least in society. Who wants to know that the electricity price is going up? It is precisely those who have the least to walk with, and who each day have a hard time assessing what the money is going to do. So they all, most of us actually have to pay more in taxes or taxes into the treasury. At least we're no longer going to get tax benefits from saving in the AMS. I even heard the head of the Workers' Party say that if you could afford to save in the AMS, you could afford to pay more taxes as well. Despite arguing at the same time that there is a risk of increased consumption growth in the private sector, one of the mechanisms that really stimulates people to save. It doesn't make sense. What is obvious is that it is not the political content of this budgetary agreement that is important. That's the touching consensus between the lots that's important. When the chairman of the Committee starts by saying that he is very pleased with the ‘standa’ of the nation and adds that the overall objective of the Government is to establish a responsible budget, that is not true. The overall objective of the current government is not to govern under a responsible budget, but it is to be allowed to sit in government. So it doesn't mean anything to the current government in what direction the policy is going. One year they can sit and accept that there will be tax reductions in the nation, while the next year they think it's absolutely great that you increase the tax burden by just over NOK 3 billion. It's not a permanent control thing. It's winging it. There's a government that doesn't know where it's going. Then there is also reason to ask the question: Why did we get a government change? Because before the workers' party government went off voluntarily, set it down and steered more or less with the support of the centre parties. Then we got a change of government, and then we get into the situation where we have a little bone center government that sits and rules with the largest party in the country as a supporting party. The only thing that has happened is that the Workers' Party has moved from being a government party to becoming a supporting party for three small parties in the Stortinget. But the policy is equal – the direction of it is equal. What's weird, I think, is that none of these parties can take the words tax relief in their mouths without it getting a little hurt and difficult for them. But that's actually all that's needed now. I have to say I react very strongly to the attempt made by the Labour Party so far in this debate to present myself as the rescue party for Norwegian oil workers. It's respectfully wrong to report it. The working party has warned and used a lot of words and expressions to explain the oil workers in Norway that if only they got a finger on the steering wheel, everything would be so much better. What's happened? This budgetary agreement means one thing, and that is to step down the production fee a little faster than what the government itself has proposed. Where are the proposals to reduce the CO2 tax, which we have heard the Workers' Party talk about? There's a majority in the Grand Council for that. If the Labour Party had been willing, they could have reduced that charge already in the revised budget together with the Progress Party and the Right. It would not be the Labour Party, which is standing on this pulpit and trying to take credit for saving industrial jobs in Norway. That's not right. The only thing the Labour Party does, and the only thing they have done in this budgetary agreement, is to invest more in action areas, labour market measures. Where is the business policy that Hill-Marta Solberg stood here and boasted? Where is it? Lars Gunnar Lie said that the most important measure in this budget for economic policy is SND. Why not listen to all the managers of small and medium-sized enterprises who scream daily under better framework conditions, at lower taxes, at lower taxes, after less bureaucracy? There is nothing to do with it, you passively face the fact that there can be an increase in unemployment, and then you increase labour market measures. It's passivity, and then it's not just the government that's doing it, it's with good support from the Workers' Party. I don't think most people understand how it's possible that while the Norwegian state spends billions of billions of dollars because of the favourable oil price development we now have, Norwegian drivers have to experience that the gas price is not only 10 kroner, but 11 and 12 pounds, too. We have heard that there is no willingness on the part of these budget partners to do anything about the gas price. In our alternative budget, we have proposed to reduce the petrol price by 2 kroner a litre, and we are probably also going to make a proposal in Stortinget quite soon, asking the Government to set up a system where the fuel tax varies in line with oil price developments. That's the only way to do it for Norwegian drivers, to guarantee that they too will be allowed to benefit from the oil wealth that is currently just the state that sits and collects, puts on books and invests in foreign companies. And then you say that this is because you have to solve the challenges of the future. But we're in the middle of them! The committee leader said he is so pleased with the “standa” in the country. It is not possible to stand on this pulpit and boast of what this nation has accomplished, for the only person who has reason to be satisfied is the Treasury, because it has never been full of money. But in such a situation, where we have now jumped up on the rank ladder and probably become the richest country in the world and oil money is flowing in, health cows are increasing. The country's hospital directors now go out and warn strongly that this cannot continue, we cannot treat patients, and the queues are increasing. In this state, we tell the country's sick people that you get one right, and that's waiting to happen, but at least you're not going to get a right to treatment. In exactly the corresponding scenario, we see that Norwegian students sit in worn-out classrooms with old, worn-out books. And then the Labour Party allows itself to say, as Hill-Marta Solberg did in his main inauguration, that the budgetary conciliation leads to a strengthening of the municipal economy. If the municipalities spend all their free money on it, it's going to be a couple hundred dollars per. student. Yes, it is possible, but in one of the line changes, the representative Hill-Marta Solberg replied that the means with which they have now strengthened the municipalities will also be used for health care, care for the elderly and other welfare goods. And then all of a sudden there won't be that much money left for school. Throughout the election campaign, we heard the Workers' Party talk about this: strengthening the community economy and strengthening the school. And what has happened? Very little. We have also heard the Workers' Party on repeated occasions talk about reducing alcohol taxes, because they are concerned about the border trade. There have been difficult newspaper headlines about this Dalheim Committee in the Workers' Party, which has now finally understood the need to reduce alcohol taxes. And then they have the possibility -- hand on the wheel, budgetary conciliation, full agreement. And what has happened? Nothing! Well by the way, right is going to be right, we're going to have a reduced price of port wine. We get that, but nothing more. Then there will be quite a difference between what the Workers' Party says and what the Workers' Party does. The question is, when does the Workers' Party intend to use the hand they have on the wheel to carry out what they do in the newspapers and otherwise tell people that they should do, but which they are competent to do at the moment when the election is over? The exact same thing happens with the car. The car will in the foreseeable future be the most important means of transport this nation has. The car charges go up. So the government – and the Labour Party – says that it is very important to have a good environmental policy. And then you take care to increase the charges when buying new cars, to be absolutely sure that the most polluting and older cars are at least not being replaced. There's no logic here. But the taxes are going up, the taxes are going up. So the Prime Minister and a number of other prominent members of the government in the election campaign said that the document fee, which we all have to pay every time we buy a dwelling, had to be reduced. We heard that throughout the campaign. And the jam I think there were a lot of people who believed in it too. Then the budget came, but then the election campaign was over. And the document fee is not mentioned, it is not mentioned. But we remember. The progress party has proposed to remove the entire document fee in the budget, because we think it is completely inappropriate that the state should take in money that we buy and sell dwellings of each other with which the state does not have a single cost. To Hill-Marta Solberg: We have proposed to remove the CO2 tax that the Workers' Party boasts they want to do something about, and we have done something about the passenger fee that we have to pay every time we are out flying, despite the fact that it is anti-competitive for airlines compared to foreign competitors. And we have proposed to reduce inheritance tax and property tax and even have a clear proposal of tax relief for all income groups. Because unlike the Workers' Party, we don't try to throw blues in people's eyes by saying that we have to finance things by always increasing taxes and taxes. In fact, we believe that it is possible to provide both tax relief and tax relief so that the monks and re-prioritisers within the framework of the state budget today. But then it turns out to be choosing what's important. But we have also heard the Labour Party and the Central Government, at the Minister of Justice, talk about the need to fight crime, and that the way to solve it is to get more police into the streets. And then into the summer several hundred high school police students, and they go with this budget straight out into unemployment, because the government, the central parties in the Stortinget and the Labour Party have not been willing to grant the few hundred million it costs to get all these newly educated policemen to work, so that they can go out and do what they've trained to: fight the increasingly raw and brutal crime of violence that develops in the Norwegian community. But that clarification won't take the government, the center won't take it, the Labour Party won't take it. We'll have to wait and see. And then we have to believe in the promises that combating crime is an important priority area. Unemployment is increasing alone because Norway is struggling with strange taxes and taxes that weaken the competitiveness of a number of our competitive enterprises. But we're not going to do anything, not come up with any business policy measures to make the distribution in such a way that someone can create values. And in that picture – since much of this debate has been used to be visionary into the next millennium – what is the reality? Well, it's that the number of pensioners is going to increase sharply, and that means that the pension obligations of the state are increasing sharply. The public sector is already booming and some have to pay for it. Then values have to be created somewhere, and then you have to set things right for the companies to do that, and I can see that is not much mentioned in this budgetary agreement. It is possible that someone says that you are now standing on the platform and painting the country's situation, Siv Jensen. Yes, do I? I haven't said anything that's not true. I haven't pointed out a single problem area that's not there. The only thing that's certain is that the state's financial assets are growing. But what we get more of in this budget is for example. strengthening Norwegian agriculture. We're gonna make sure of that. And the reason for that is said to be that it's the only way we can get cheaper food in this nation. And then we see Norwegian farmers dumping tons of tons of Norwegian-produced meat abroad to prevent Norwegian consumers from getting cheaper meat – and then you wonder that Norwegians are going to Sweden to buy cheap food. That's nice, that. But perhaps the most strange thing about the entire budgetary process is this basic belief that you can drive and fine-tune every minimum million in the Norwegian economy. You believe that. Then you look at this budgetary agreement and what you've been sitting and moving on from money, and then it's easy to feel a little dedicated to a medium-sized municipality in Norway and budgeted there. Because there are hundreds of thousands of people arguing. Here the long lines should actually be about some principal, important, overarching things and the distribution of all the 500 billions contained in the state budget. But we do not discuss the important, long-term, major challenges. It is relatively symptomatic in itself when Hill-Marta Solberg says in his statement that the choice fell between increasing taxes and slipping on the budget balance. Did the Labour Party ever fall into the presence of a third possibility, namely to cut some of the public expenditure, to reduce public bureaucracy, to make little more efficient? It doesn't say a word about it. Tax increases are kind of what we get. I think it's a little sad when we first get a political change, that the result of the practical political change is so small. I'm afraid that all those who are now sitting and thinking that it's going to be gleaning hours for Norwegian school students only this budget gets to work, is going to notice, that it wasn't that simple. But what we're going to notice is the tax austerity, the tax increases and probably also increased unemployment, because the companies no longer have the pressure to which they are increasingly subjected from the government parties and the Workers' Party, who think it's better to have full control over all the funds. Although there is little reason to believe that the alternative budget of the Progress Party will be adopted, I take this up with all our proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e559	The representative Jensen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e564	The representative, Siv Jensen, tried to make a big deal of the fact that the budget agreement that exists in the autumn has no significance for anything. It has at least had an impact on the mood of the Progress Party, it was quite obvious from the recent speeches, where a slightly suspenseful Progress Party representative found much to complain about in this budget agreement. I'm not going to make any attempt to sum up the post that we just heard, but maybe say it so that here it was a little bit of each. Let me first correct a manifest misunderstanding, since the representative Jensen is trying to create the impression that in my post and in my reply I tried to use the money that the municipalities get, both for school and for health: I was very careful to distinguish between the funds that the primary municipalities, who run the primary school, get, and the funds that the county municipalities, who are responsible for health care and hospitals, get. So there was absolutely no reason for such a comment by the representative Jensen. But when there is an important point for the Progress Party that there is so little that has been moved into this budget – there is nothing happening at all – then I have to say the following: When the Progress Party presented its budget two years ago, the Progress Party proposed a tax bill of 28.9 billion kroner. – 29.8 billion! The result was about zero, and the Progress Party was satisfied. Last year, the Progress Party proposed a budget line with a tax burden of DKK 25.7 billion. The result was about zero in tax bills, one kind of got zero out some increases from the Government – and the Progress Party was satisfied. Then, in its budget for next year, the Progress Party proposes 28.3 billion kroner in tax and tax relief. Then it might be interesting to know: When had the representative Siv Jensen and the Progress Party been satisfied in any budgetary settlement? Would zero also have been good enough for the Advance Party this fall?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e575	Now, in fact, it is not possible to clarify what would satisfy the Progress Party at this crossroads, because unfortunately that train has gone – with the Workers' Party on. But we have never – unlike the Workers' Party – when we have discussed budgets with the government parties, embrace everything, give it our full support and be very satisfied. On the contrary, we have repeatedly stressed that it has been subsidiary on our part, and that is also why we have put forward an alternative budget to see what we would have done if we had a majority alone in this room. The Labour Party has not provided an alternative budget this year. They embrace the entire budget as it exists, which, of course, means that the Workers' Party has deprived itself of any opportunity to criticise the economic policy pursued by the Government throughout the year 2000. We had that opportunity, however. We said repeatedly that there were many elements of the budgetary agreements where we held our noses. But the most important thing about it was that we contributed to the country getting a budget. In the two preceding years, we both experienced that the Workers' Party gave up the government power, and that they were not at all willing to negotiate a solution in the Stortinget under any circumstances. The largest party in the country was totally unwilling to take responsibility for the state budget, and that, as a result of one case, against freedom of choice for young children’s parents, i.e. cash support. You shouldn't have any of that. You wouldn't negotiate. Suddenly, the Labour Party has changed its mind. Now the cash support is okay, and one has negotiated not a subsidiary agreement, but a complete agreement. So Hill-Marta Solberg says I'm standing there and I'm staying. Yes, it is still good that there are some parties who believe that there is reason to correct a number of relationships and are not as much of a pleasure as Hill-Marta Solberg obviously is.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e586	In the Christian People's Party, we want a distribution policy that works so that we don't get a layered society with great social differences. This is also one of the reasons why we do this. have contributed to the introduction of the specific minimum deduction of earnings. The consequence of this is that incomes below NOK 160 000 are taxed monthly, which particularly benefits young people, low-paid people and part-time workers. This is one of several steps to create good conditions for deferred groups. Another grip includes: an overcompensation of the minimum deduction beyond what was necessary to compensate for an additional electricity charge. Now, if we are to work together to find a good distribution policy, it is also important that we have a common starting point, a common definition of reality around us. When I read the Progress Party's comments in this budget, I'm a little confused about the possibility of finding such a common definition. I would like to read a little bit from a budget comment from the Progress Party: ‘The redistribution of goods is pointless when ordinary wage earners tax so much that they have to give up daily dinners because opera tickets are to be subsidized. The level of taxation is so high that it goes beyond the ability of families to meet their needs. It is not well-being to impose taxes so high that everyone and everyone is forced on public alms schemes instead of keeping more of their wages so that they can take care of themselves. ‘... My question is: is this really the Progress Party's serious and serious definition of the reality around us, or is this a formulation that has found its form in a late night hour?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e598	I think I should be allowed to thank the representative Sørfonn for using his barely measured speaking time to quote from the alternative budget of the Progress Party. It hasn't been easy to get along with it. I think it was great what it said there, namely that we believe that individuals and businesses are better able to have their own money than the state, or the Stortinget, on their behalf. That's the whole basic difference. We think that people know better themselves, and we actually also believe that there is a significant loss on the income side of tax just by charging it in. So you can try to make this a question of distribution and create the impression that the Progress Party just wants to do something for those who have a lot. When did it come true? For many years we have had a tax profile that has just meant that it is especially those who serve at least or medium that are going to get the most tax relief. We actually tried that in the negotiations with the very representative of Sørfonn, but we did not succeed very much with that. We're glad it's going to be tax relief for the low pay. But we don't understand why this has to be financed by increasing taxes and charges for someone else. It's going to be a little bit of a jokemaker, a piper, take it back and give it away. You have to give some tax breaks later, and then you take your money back, for example. by increasing the electricity charge, because it affects exactly the same as receiving the tax deduction. It is not that there is now suddenly a very good distribution policy here in the house. It is strange that there has now been budgetary alliance with the Workers’ Party – which ran through the whole time when the differences in Norway really increased. And then all of a sudden you say that now this is going to be so much better.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e609	The representative Jensen initially asked some questions about black paint. Tatt considering that she has today taken a tie for her eyes, is not the black paint more than one could expect. Listening to Mr Jensen's contributions could give the impression that the Progress Party will spend more money for all good purposes, funded by the oil money. But what Siv Jensen did not mention in one word, and which is in small writing in the alternative budget of the Progress Party, is that the Progress Party cuts about. 30 billion in the budget to be adopted now. Then it's not just opera and unhelp it goes down, not least you hit school, education and research considerably. It says that the Advance Party cuts the budget for research and education by NOK 892 918 000. Everyone knows that if Norway is to succeed in establishing new jobs in the years to come and succeed in industrial development, we need a stronger knowledge base. And what does the Progress Party do? They cut quality development measures in high school. They're making 50 million. kr for secondary education. You shave the universities away. University of Oslo loses 50 million. kr, not to mention the universities of Bergen and Trondheim. Then you go to the research institutions and also school in general. Is it true that the representative, Siv Jensen, believes that this is what is needed in order for Norway to have a promise of knowledge in the years to come? Carl I. Hagen, the party leader, went out in the election campaign in Nettavisen and claimed that there are too many teachers in the Norwegian primary school. Is it to follow up on Hagen's play that it is too many teachers that the Progress Party and Siv Jensen are now cutting 900 million. kr in the school and education budget?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e618	We've come with us -- most of us, I think -- that the Right has tried to create the impression that, in terms of school policy, they have a monopoly on the good solutions. The fact is that the Right School Policy and the Advance Party's school policy with a few exceptions is very similar, and Børge Brende knows that very well. What he would also know, if he'd bothered to read our alternative budget a little bit more thoroughly, is that we don't cut a single penny in terms of the investment in qualitative education in school. We cut to simplify the administration. We cut to reduce primary language education in primary school, which we don't think is a public task. But we're not cutting to weaken the school's qualitative content or what students are going to come out with after graduation. On the contrary, it is we who, throughout the election campaign, focused on the content of the school and did not try to participate in the world championship that was about who would give the most money in salary increases to the teachers after the election. We saw in the last debate in Holmgang that one might have forgotten that one had promised this, when it came to the problem. Realities lie in what kind of school-working day our children should have. What should they learn, what subjects should be strengthened, what should they be good at, and how? We were ridiculed in the campaign – at least tried to ridicule – because we said there was a need for more discipline in school. Now it's not long since a project manager at one of the maybe most problematic schools in Oslo, namely Hersleb, said the same thing, that the only way they could solve behavioral problems in the students was to resort to disciplinary measures. You tried to make fun of us, including the Right, but it just shows that we were actually right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e627	Norway is a rich country, a steep country, it is the SV and the Progress Party agree. But what are we going to use wealth for? What's most important on the 21st century threshold? Competence development, education and school are the most important things for us to have jobs and something to live on, a pension and health care money in the 21st century. But the Progress Party was not near these questions. The only thing that matters is tax-free, said Siv Jensen in his post. I think it's completely incomprehensible to people when they see that Norway is a runaway country, while the classrooms fall out and the teachers flee from the most important jobs. In order to implement the reforms agreed by the Progress Party with regard to the elderly, school and health, the public sector or those performing these services will need 85 000 annual works over the next 10 years. Where in the world are we going to find people for it when the Progress Party is going to cut all the budgets that are also going to pay for these people? Competitive pay and employment conditions both in the classroom, in the hospital and in the operating room must be provided, whether private or public. Then I would like to ask: How does the Progress Party believe that the pay conditions for teachers and public servants or nurses and assistants should actually be? How much does the Advancement Party feel that a teacher should earn? I assume that the Progress Party has seen that there is strong competition for this labour force today and that we believe we should have the best teachers, and that therefore we need to increase wages quite strongly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e638	Karin Andersen – and in and on its own also SV – has gradually begun to understand the importance of competition in order to make the market work. Now Karin Andersen shows that there is competition for the best teachers, not because you compete for them in school, but because parts of the business can get to rap them out of school if they don't get better pay and employment. I totally agree with that. But why does SV not agree that by creating a competitive system between schools, there is exactly the path that leads to schools competing for the labour force? So you get a market system that itself creates wages that are market-friendly. That's just how it works. The same applies to the health care system. We have repeatedly said that both nurses and teachers in Norway serve too badly. But then we also need to develop systems that help make this work, and that will not be done under any circumstances. SV is terrified of competition, including in the public sector. On the other hand, the Progress Party believes that competition in the public sector will both help to make more efficient use of resources and make wages more market-friendly. Karin Andersen claims that I say that it is only tax havens that are important. I've never said that. On the contrary, I underlined the seriousness of the school situation; I underlined the need to focus more on health care, more on care for the elderly. I guess I also talked for quite a while about the situation for the students at the Police College who don't get a job, and I spent a lot of time illustrating that the most important areas of activity for which this big business is responsible are not being prioritised, so you choose to give priority to a number of other tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e645	Rely on Jensen's looseness in relation to the reality and reality of others is arduous to deal with. She hassles with an increased electricity charge, but she removes the trade union deduction, which represents twice as much as an increase in the electricity charge. But it might be a little bit about who you want to ask first. Siv Jensen deals with large fees, but does not mention that the Progress Party is responsible for the fees we have today. In particular, it is necessary to record the changing strategy of the Progress Party related to the heart issue of fees. Last year – and then I will not mention the fees that were in the compromise, but something that people on the pavement are probably a little busy with – the Progress Party suggested that, for example, the fee on the pils should be about. DK 14 Now, in the sign of detachment, they propose 4.50. Last year they suggested that the fee of 100 cigarettes should be NOK 137, now they are cutting 85. It is difficult to understand that a party that at least in given contexts tries to be responsible, until the degrees change strategy and change the content of the policies they stand for here in the Chamber. I have to ask: what is the reason of Siv Jensen and the Progress Party to represent one charging policy when one is held responsible for majority cooperation and another when one unmanages oneself without the ability to manage and the will to manage?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e654	I must first thank the representative Dalheim for helping to tell me how reasonable it would actually be if our tax rates had been adopted. But unlike the Workers' Party, which is just talking about the challenges of border trade, we're doing something about it. In the last year’s debate, the debate on border trade focused on how we could bring charges down to the Swedish level to help eliminate them. And we've done something about that. It is not that we have suddenly changed the strategy in the view of alcohol taxes. We've always worked for the alcohol charge to go down. There has never been a draft budget from the Progress Party on increased taxes on alcohol. The strategy has been quite the same all along: the lower, the better. Then to the question of trade union deductions versus electricity charge. Yeah, there's a pretty significant difference here in our view. I understand that the Labour Party has a need to sign the LO, but the Progress Party therefore considers it more important to reduce fees that benefit the entire population, whether you're a member of a trade union or an owner. It also has something to do with our respect for freedom of choice when it comes to organizing. We don't mess with LO or any other organization, we say that freedom of organisation gets to be right where it wants to be. But rather, we aim to reduce taxes and taxes that benefit all citizens of the nation. I think it has a much greater justice element in it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e661	President! Can I get the floor for a manifest misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e668	Then there really has to be an obvious misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e671	Siv Jensen obviously misunderstood my question fundamentally. What I was asking was how Siv Jensen and the Progress Party can deal with a completely different policy this year than what they stood for concretely in the Chamber last year – not what you dream about in a different society, but what is reality here. So it was like that that they made charges that I referred to, not the dream images that Siv Jensen was now trying to present.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e677	I have not misunderstood anything. I have already explained in the exchange of lines with Hill-Marta Solberg the difference in embracing the entire budget and subsidising it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e682	Would the representative Jensen like to address the proposals on which the Progress Party shares with others?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e685	Yes, I've taken up all the suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e692	I'm going to start with a little visit to the representative Siv Jensen, who was talking about school policy. I will admit that I agree with the Progress Party on one point in school policy, namely the need for more discipline and more order in school. That's where it stops, too. Nor do I believe that the discipline regulations of the Eastern Toten municipality from 1912 – with all due respect for both East and West Toten, where I have a lot of relatives – are current and necessary to use in Norwegian school today. I also think it is difficult for the Progress Party to argue that, as it is called, it will not go beyond ‘qualitative education’ when, at the same time, hundreds of millions of grants, both for the development of basic school competence, to primary school as such and to higher education institutions. When you say this has something to do with bureaucracy, you know neither universities nor other schools very well. What is the problem today is that Norway is among the countries in Europe that use the least resources per year. student. Our neighbouring countries, especially Sweden, are unusually much higher in this area. It also shows all available statistics. It is therefore not easy to do anything to increase the quality of the school, it is also about money. When the chairman of the committee started by saying that before the turn of the millennium, one has to take a perspective, I have to say that this is one of the areas where I am really disappointed with the Workers' Party, and in particular with regard to the government parties, because the Right's invitation has been rejected for this time to participate in a real boost for the education sector – a billion-lifts at least in one budget, as a beginning of something that could become a higher level into the next millennium. Because we know from experience that there is something that creates differences among people, there is a lack of accessible modern, forward-looking education. Before the next millennium, the availability of skills is probably the greatest challenge we face, both in terms of joining as a nation internationally, and in lifting each of us individually and giving each of us the same opportunities in society. This would really be an area to unite at the end of this millennium. But I record that it has become small money, and that the Progress Party on this section of the track is completely outside and believes that you can get more for less. To the agreement, which has been commented on by many. I guess it's right to say that the agreement doesn't bear the mark of a lift into a new century or millennia. The agreement is politically justified because it has solved internal problems both in the Workers' Party and in the Bondevik Government. For the Workers' Party, it has been an advantage that attention has been lost from a leadership struggle, and thus has come on track, as it is called in political jargon. What you've come up with is more unclear. At least you've become a partner. And for the Bondevik government, internal problems have been solved with the Center Party, which has always wanted to reconcile itself with the party they were to replace in the government position, i.e. the Workers' Party – understand what they want. This conflict has therefore been suspended. So the internal conflicts are probably solved, but many of the country's problems are still unresolved, and we're not touching them at the entrance of this new century and millennia. If you analyze the individual elements of the deal, it's a paradox that all the partners have essentially warned about all the things they're doing. The cash support is an example. I don't have to go as far as my party colleague Wohnung and say that there are as many quotes from the Workers' Party about the cash support as it is true in the sea, but at least as many as there are stars in the sky, I agree. We quote that the cash support is like a bomb under the welfare state, it is a threat to house and home or an ambush on the professional woman. All of this has been said about a cash support for which the Workers' Party is now in favour, and for which the party leader is in addition, to continue after the next majorisation. Then the representative Hill-Marta Solberg says about the cash support: ‘we disagree’. I registered that the representative Jagland actually believes that you cannot go to the fight against cash support even in a roll-call election, where you have the opportunity to change a majority. The paradox is in many ways that during this downgrading period the Workers' Party will use its resources to change the content of the cash support so that only those who stay at home will receive cash support, not those like them. changing between kindergarten and being at home, or renting help at home – they should not receive support, but only those who choose the kitchen bench completely. In other words, the fact that the cash support was an ambush on the professional woman, as was said, should now be really targeted during this period. But there will be nothing of that, because the Right Party and the Advance Party have veto rights in relation to changes in the cash support. In the case of other elements of the agreement, such as increasing the marginal tax rate, the Committee is composed of letters from both former Minister of Finance Johnsen and Minister of Finance Restad, who both warn against touching the top tax rate. They do say correctly that the distribution effect of increasing the marginal tax rate is still very doubtful and warns against it. So this is the first time since the 1992 budgetary agreement, with which the current Minister of Finance was a representative of the big business, that there is a 50 p.m. limit on marginal tax. The AMS system has been defended by the non-socialist parties, and here I count with all three government parties, for two decades. It is a saving arrangement that these batches have been stockpiled, assured that they will continue, and assured that they will expand. Yes, it has been no longer than a couple of weeks before the conciliation that even the head of the Centre’s Trade and Industry Committee assured that it would be expanded and have more such savings arrangements. But two weeks later, as I said, it was removed. My point in a previous line change to the representative Lie was not to make him tell what ideological reason the Christian People's Party has to save. I guess it was too much to wait. But I actually had a desire to get him to elaborate on the valueless reason for keeping words. I didn't get that. And since we're talking about keeping words: Prime Minister Bondevik warned before the agreement with the Workers' Party was concluded, against tightening up that could affect the companies. On TV 2 on 30 October, the Prime Minister said that we have managed to protect business from changes in corporate taxation. That's not true. This agreement strengthens corporate taxation, both through changes in the sharing model and through changes in depreciation rules and indirect – it is not corporate taxation, I agree, but has the same effect on businesses – increases the transport charge and the electricity charge, and increases the cost of wages through changes in the tax system. The Labour Party said before the agreement that one would close the tax gap. It was especially in the tabloid press one of the repetitions, and Vice-Chair Jens Stoltenberg got several big headlines to tell examples of tax holes. The so-called payroll companies of the know-how were supposed to be broken. But Professor Terje Hansen, who was among those who had taken these examples out, has well documented that all the examples drawn in the press are allowed even after the conciliation – not a so-called hole that you pulled out is dense. If you were to spice further with quotations from Professor Terje Hansen, he says about the conciliation: this is a disaster and as bad as it goes. He goes on to say that several types of tax adjustment will speed up the changed rules. So far it goes into the sequence that you actually warn against what you're doing. From the Workers' Party it was also said that the budget should now be taken from the rich and given to the poor. It is difficult to understand that, by the way, one million AMSs are to be among the kingdoms to be taken from. It is difficult to understand that paying electricity in ordinary dwellings should qualify for the term rich. It's hard to understand that you're just compensating for them with income. Pensioners and social security are not compensated. Retirement taxes are further stepped up, including: by keeping the special deduction unchanged for age, i.e. not adjusting it, thereby tightening the tax rate for a group which, at least, cannot be described as the rich in society. A little in general about the economy that is now budgeted, in spite of everything, is going to work in: the growth of the Norwegian economy next year seems to be low, although there is still a high level of activity in the country, with a sustained pressure in many sectors. With this pressure, there is a risk that next year's price and salary growth will also be higher than that of our trading partners. Thus, the competitiveness of businesses and businesses is at risk of further deterioration. Therefore, the right considers that the government budget for next year should be a neutral budget that neither stimulates domestic demand growth nor stifles the modest economic growth of the government next year. At the same time, through better framework conditions for businesses, the State budget must provide a basis for a renewed growth in the Norwegian economy. I note that budgetary conciliation is failing in this area. The representative Lars Gunnar Lie was also concerned that the underlying expenditure growth in the budget this year is as high as 2.5 pst. It is far above the growth of mainland Norway's national product. In other words, we are facing a trend in which the public sector is increasingly at the expense of a private sector. But it's not just useful to worry about this, you have to do something about it. The right-hand draft budget does not go to work extremely, but manages to keep expenditure growth in check so that at least it does not grow more than the growth in GDP for mainland Norway. So we're going to keep our balance point, if not otherwise. It is permissible to vote in favour of this arrangement, and not just worry. This concern is also shared by the Bank of Norway, which in its budget letter clearly warns against such developments. Those are wise words that more than we should follow. This time, the national budget also includes a discussion of pension issues. It is a very important issue in the longer term. However, the debate in the national budget contains few concrete things. It announces a review of the people's fear economy on the basis of the decision of the Moland Committee, which came last year, first in a good and a good year's time when the Government's long-term programme is to be presented. We think that's too late. It should have been done as a matter of its own before, but I note that here too, a push should be the longest possible in front of it. Today’s media headlines have worried that the insurance industry has begun to advertise that it should be a little too careful to rely too blindly on the fact that the public’s security ensures everything you expect. The main problem – I have to say – in the future are not those who are going to get a pension, the main problem is those who are going to pay for the pension. So now we're going to set aside money. That is why we are now saving, among other things. through the Petroleum Fund. Nevertheless, it is a fact that since its introduction in 1967, the performance of the population has been weakened. In 1967, the ratio of the lowest pension to the highest pension was 1:4. Today, this is a ratio of one to two. Although this is partly due to the increase in minimum pensions, it is also due to a large reduction in benefits for those with higher incomes. In other words, the element of austerity in the population is significantly weakened. Or to take an example: to a single pensioner with a previous salary of approximately NOK 280 000, the population's income now provides compensation of a little over 50 pst. before tax. In other words, when you retire, the income is almost halved if you just have the popular interest to rely on. This is less than many had expected and less than what was suggested. Therefore, there are good reasons why many people now say: I don't just rely on political promises, but I want to insure myself privately in addition to this. I'll bring this up to the right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e732	Per-Kristian Foss has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e737	The representative Foss has earlier in a line here today rolled a little above the central rate, that they are included in settlements with different directions from one year to the next. I agree with the representative, Mr Foss, that there is a difference between the compromises that the Centre has reached with the Right and the Advance Party, and what they have now concluded with the Workers' Party, among others. on tax relief, which is an important matter for the Right. With the Workers' Party it's the low pay that gets tax relief, with the Right it's the high pay. The budgetary balance sheet is another important point for the Right. The Labour Party shall keep the budgetary balance of the Government. When a compromise is reached with the Right, there are several billions in the budget. With kindergartens there is a full stop with the Right, with the Workers' Party it is expansion. The school leisure system is becoming more expensive with the Right, with the Workers' Party it becomes cheaper. The local economy is getting better with the Workers' Party, with the Right there are cuts. What is perhaps most surprising is that when the Right compromises with the Centre, the Centre is forced to cut education and cut into the community economy, which is also important for education time and primary and primary school. With the Workers' Party it becomes more education, also higher education, and more to the local economy and thus a strengthened primary school. My question to the representative Foss is: The voters who were involved in the elections in education must be satisfied that it is the Workers' Party and not the Right who have compromised with the Centre?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e750	No, no, no. I think that voters who are engaged in education would have preferred a billion rather than a few hundred million, especially spread on non-competitive measures. All respect for school leisure, but I think teaching time is more important for empowerment. I believe that the content of teaching, teaching coverage, teaching skills, after-school training, teacher pay is what you are engaged in at school, rather than that it is paid for textbooks – probably politely enough – or for parents to get rid of the school leisure system more reasonably. And that's actually what I spent some time in my post. Had the center wanted to make a deal with us, we would have been hard on the exact education and education effort, because that's important. And I think with respect to report that there are more than right-wing voters who are concerned that there really would have been something out of it now. Instead, we've got a small number of small amounts that are such that most people still feel frustrated, and school people react across the country, across all parties and trade unions. With regard to Giske's boast on the kindergarten side, I have to say that I think it should be a little careful, because where kindergartens are the most expensive – it's just the private kindergartens – the Right has a much better setup than the Workers' Party has. On the kindergarten side, our scheme will offer a reduced price for the parents who have children in the most expensive kindergartens. It is not right when the representative Giske says that our setup is in the local economy. In fact, our arrangement means a nominal strengthening in relation to the government's arrangement of the municipal framework of 200 million. kr in addition to some ear-marked items, among others. on the kindergarten side.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e757	Right-hand samples in the state budget to give the impression that they are the car drivers' friend. This can be done, among other things: read out of the Right Comment, where it says: ‘These charges are built up with a very strong progression which penalises, among other things, family cars and cars with a high level of built-in safety equipment.’ The party agreed to this and therefore proposed to lower the car charge. I do not understand why the right first claims what they do in the comment, and then propose increased car charges. The same applies to the annual fee. Here the Progress Party proposes a reduction for passenger cars of 205 kroner, for motorcycles a reduction of 830 kroner. The right, on the other hand, supports the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left in proposing an increase in the annual fee. The same applies to the re-registration fee. The Progress Party proposes a reduction, the Right proposes an increase. With regard to the diesel tax, the Party proposes a reduction of SEK 1.40 per tonne. liters, down to the Swedish level. On the right, on the other hand, today’s price of diesel, which is well above the price level in our neighbouring countries, seems appropriate, as they propose to maintain the current level of diesel charges. The progress party proposes to reduce the petrol tax by 2 kroner per day. liters, i.e. a reduction in the pump price of NOK 2.50. It's something like monks! Here, obviously, the right has had a good moment, because here they sparkle more with a reduction of 20 cents per cent. liters. Isn't it true in the real world that the Right is as motorist hostile to the rest of the parties?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e767	In this budgetary situation, we have concentrated on some of the things we actually believe are most important, and that is increasing investment in new ways. It is clear that a budget could well be set up so that, in order to be a friend of all people, all charges that most people think are too high are reduced. I think the sum of such an economic arrangement leads you into the completely unprofessional. Some of the point of a budget is that there should also be some left to use the roads and to use the vehicles, and such budget cuts as the Progress Party is making, for example. in an area like agricultural transfers, I have to say is completely unprofessional. You can't cut a business transfer by half from one year to another, from December to January, and think you should be able to carry it. That's where we split up, the Progress Party and the Right, in some areas. The Progress Party uses axe in some areas where it may be possible to slim down state transfers, but where, by drawing it out into the parody in reality, it undermines the argumentation that is also serious. For everyone, agricultural transfers also need to be tightened up, all of them seeing the need to do something in other public sectors. But by going to work so hard, you're actually doing a bear service. In fact, when we have gone against the increase in diesel taxes by the Government, there is not a slogan such as the ‘buy of the carists’, but a desire to reduce the cost of commercial activity, among other things. in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e774	I would like to thank you very much for working together on school policy, but I would ask them perhaps to focus on the Advancement Party and get them involved, because they are miles away from us in that area, if we are to have some cooperation with the right parties. An important task that the central parties committed themselves to in the Adult Declaration was to put a whole district policy higher on the agenda than the other blocks had shown political will. An important part of this was to create new optimism and innovation in the rural areas of our country. The agricultural industry is a major undergrowth of small holdings in a large number of municipalities in Norway. In recent decades, a lot of exciting innovation has just taken place based on the agricultural industry, and the boat and farm have proved to be an important uterus for many new businesses in Norway. The Christian People's Party sees agriculture as an important part of our industrial policy and our management strategy for natural resources and for creative minds. Right will support a lot of important and correct bets, but the funding I put a question mark on. Right cutters in their budget 1.2 billion in the agricultural sector, and it will trigger renegotiations with the parties to the agricultural agreement. That's it. But I would say that it is an unrealistic and also an incorrect proposal. If that were feasible, it would hit a quite large group of small businesses in Building Norway. And how can it be related to Right-wing Enterprise and District Policy? Is there any point in going to these towns if the existing businesses both along the coast and in the countryside lose the important small businesses? I agree that road construction is an important part of district policy, but it is too often presented by the Right as a either-or, and I do not agree with that. Perhaps the modern farm of the future is made up of 15 deacons with herbs and a small IT company in the poultry? Does the Right believe that the agricultural industry in Norway and these small farms are not important, since they cut 1.2 billion, and do so on the small farms?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e785	I agree with the representative Karlstrøm that there is a lot of exciting innovation going on in Building Norway, but it is despite the agricultural policy that is being pursued – in spite of it. Those who try to achieve this exciting innovation in their own profession, in agriculture, meet with a variety of regulations, allowances and closures to expand their use for specialisation and to operate widely in some areas. They are met by a traditional thinking and a bureaucratic attitude that kills innovation. Many people choose to quit the profession and pursue innovation in other areas, outside the agricultural sector, and they do it very well. That's where we'll bet more. On the right, the Seed Capital Funds, which are a kind of joint venture, are increasing a cooperation project with both private and public capital. We're increasing the investment in research. We're adding an overprice write-down that makes companies that spend a lot of money on research and development come out well, especially in the first few years. We improve the framework conditions for enterprises in general and focus on the communications sector. In other words, we are betting on those who want to drive rural development, either within their own industry, the agricultural industry, or by switching to other areas. The central party—government parties—answers are largely to freeze it. I have to say that the really big challenge is actually to release some of these innovation resources, from just giving them to those who have a basis in agriculture, to being able to give to everyone in Building Norway who makes up new ideas, starts businesses and becomes employers. We need more employers, not fewer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e793	The representative Per-Kristian Foss used words in his post as holding words, and looked to the finance committee leader as if it were most necessary. I agree with the representative Foss that we should keep words, and it made me go on track after what goes on in the setting when it comes to the power tax agreement that was also on the Right in the Inn. O. No 62 for 1995-96, where one said that the tax on the property of the municipalities from power plants should not be reduced, and one asked that Section 8 of the tax on the property should be used. We have now found that it is not possible to achieve that level when it relates to income from these plants to the power stations by using Section 8. The centre party was not in the force tax settlement in 1996, but when others in the Stortinget agree that according to § 8 it is not easy for the power municipalities to get the level with which they were promised, we have now chosen to be in charge of asking the Government to come back with a new section 8. This option toggles the right angle on and off when this comment is applied. They are busy writing about the situation and what happened in 1995-96. But it's kind of a run-in with no hope. Asking for a modified section 8 so that the municipalities of power can get what the Right agreed to promise in 1996, will not be on the Right. I ask for Per-Kristian Foss' answer to the question: what level are the municipalities expected to get when it comes to property taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e800	For the sake of order: My line to the representative Lars Gunnar Lie, the chairman of the committee, about keeping words, is of course not about the representative Lie, but about his party – so that's what they say. In the case of the tax settlement on plant tax, it is true that the representative Holte said that the centre party was not involved. We are in the setting on a statement that the outcome has been different than expected. We don't want to go into detail to describe exactly what the difference is in. The right agrees that the income of the municipalities hosting power plants will vary depending on the price. There shall be an equalisation over five years, but there shall be a variation based on price. But there are other elements in the valuation rules that have not been intended. That is why we are open to considering the proposals the Government will include in amended Section 8 of the Property Tax Act or the regulations behind it. But to put it that way, it's pretty funny that a representative from one of the government parties is going to criticize us for actually being open to the Government's proposals, without predicting exactly what the paragraph should look like. I see with some transparency that the government will count on this, especially considering that this does not relate to the relationship between the state fund and the powerhouses. This concerns the relationship between power municipalities and municipalities that own power plants. There is a distribution in the municipal sector. We'll look at it with a significant degree of sense of balance, which I also thought Holte's representative represented.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e809	The right cut in the cost of the State budget of about 7 billion DKK is socially unfair – not surprising in the case of the Right. If we look at the cuts, there's again an attack on the health pay system, where the right thinks half the pay in the first three days when you're sick. In addition to being ill, too, too, too, there will be financial difficulties. They are affected on the right without job cuts in labour market measures, making it more difficult for people without work to obtain the necessary qualifications for a new job. I expect the Right and the representative Foss to live into what young people with children, student debt and household debt need. They include: depending on kindergartens, much more reasonable than what is offered today, and depending on a more reasonable school and leisure system. The right-hand cut in the school and leisure system, together with the other cuts, affects those who need the most public community solutions and welfare services. Looking at this in the context of the Right tax regime, it is quick to see that the Right will increase private consumption at the expense of public consumption and well-being. That's just the way it is, and it's just taking notice. It is therefore good that the working party has got the center away from the right influence. Most people will also enjoy it. My question to the representative Foss is: what is so good about cutting off the welfare systems for those with the lowest incomes? What is so good about taking away those who are without work? And what's so good about taking from those who have little children?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e818	I'm not so immigrated in the sense. I stick to normal conjac, to say it like this. [[Laughter]] But I'm going to leave the quote that has been brought out earlier by several, lie down. I understand it so that now the Workers' Party puts itself behind the entire budget with skin and hair, completely and completely. There is no subsidiary vote at a distance, but completely. So the Workers' Party says, this budget we are now going into, enough for the hospitals, enough for the municipalities and enough for the children's families. I must say that I am not a little surprised by the sense, as it is called, of cutting off the economy of the families of children as the Workers' Party does. Ill was when the government brought in its budget of 700 million. kr from the families of children in total, but worse it was that the Workers' Party criticized it, so to speak, to raise the cut to NOK 1.1 billion. It's awesome – cut the transfers to the families of children! Actually, there are some increases, but others get minus, the total of families with children is SEK 1.1 billion. As far as the health pay scheme is concerned, I would like to defend the fact that there is a need for self-interest in a system that has become so enormously expensive. It is good social democratic policy in Sweden – you don’t have to go beyond that – to have self-interests. The scheme now has a total expenditure framework for the country and employers of approx. $40 billion. The growth is huge. Only from 1994 to the next year will the allocation be almost doubled. You have to do something about this. Due to sick leave, 120,000 annual works have been lost, some of which we can recover from more healthy excesses. Because it's a paradox that it's the only welfare system – and it's a welfare system that I want to defend primarily – that's without self-esteem. Even borrowing a stick, a wheelchair or a crutch, the government would initially impose a propensity on, but not this, the most expensive of all welfare schemes. It's just not hanging in any way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e827	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e830	One year ago, we experienced a failure to trust the Norwegian economy. Low oil prices, weak crowns and a doubling of interest rates challenge fiscal policies to dampen the pressures in the economy. The size of the game, through an adjusted tighter budget from the center party that received support from the Progress Party and the Right. It is a pleasure to note that the budget has had a positive impact on the overall economic policy for 1999. The oil price is more than double from January to now, interest is reduced by 2 1⁄2 pst. since the new year, the krone has returned to the same level as before it was weaned, and the cooperation in income policy has been strengthened throughout the year. It is a goal of the Centre Party to ensure full employment and make the best use of the labour force available to solve the many tasks expected by the public budget. The labour reserve is halved from 1993 to 1998. The 1999 estimates were adjusted from 3.4 pst in the revised national budget. to 3.2 pst. If the level of development in 1999 is good, we can expect a certain increase in unemployment in 2000, especially in the shipbuilding and engineering industries. In this sector, a very good competence is established over time, but also some overcapacity. The centre party believes that, through various measures during a transitional period, we need to ensure the skills we need in the long term, so that we are able to produce the goods and services we need when oil investments and the construction and renewal of ships return to a realistic level. I will show you in that respect the increase in the budget between the Centre and the Workers' Party. The impact of the choices made in the 1999 fiscal policy is important. For this reason, the budget proposal for which there are multiples through the agreement with the Workers' Party is a neutral arrangement with a real underlying expenditure growth of 2.5 pst. – just like the government had posted. Despite a tight plan based on approximately DKK 10.3 billion in next year's expenditure growth, the government has found room to continue its priorities, such as: the development of 5,800 new health care centres and the care housing action plan for the elderly with a view to a staff increase of well over 12 000 new annual works for the period 1998-2001 psychiatry and cancer plans to increase investment for new technical equipment in hospitals, by 500 million. kr Childcare is extended to 16- and 17-year-olds from 1 May 2000. In addition, the cash subsidy is increased to NOK 3000 per person. the month, and the establishment of 6000 new kindergartens. The government’s main priorities in research and innovation have been established, as have the opportunities for development of competences in the youth sphere, ICT investment and the opportunities for development of skills as part of the growth training reform. The research fund has increased by $1 billion. In addition, the Government’s investment through project-oriented technology development in the petroleum industry has been impacted. District and transport measures are an important area for the Centre Party. Development and renewal, enhanced competence both by human capital and natural capital, such as: transportation, is decisive for the construction and business of districts. The centre party thinks that in District Norway we find the basis for our entire economic life, based on our commodity economy. Public efforts such as transport, the provision of higher education, industrial research and development of competences can provide a better basis for the construction and establishment of districts. In a time of deportation from the districts because the centralization in many areas is strong, it is important that we, as superior authorities, think together. I am pleased to note that the Government has provided an offensive strategy to increase optimism and facilitate nutrient growth throughout the country. The funds intended for a comprehensive rural effort for 2000 are secured and strengthened by the budgetary agreement with the Labour Party. In general, the government has had a majority of its priorities in the UK. The budgetary agreement between the Government Party and the Workers' Party has strengthened the main priorities of both parties in the important area. I would like to add that, through these budgetary negotiations, the Labour Party has been clear on the priorities and oriented towards a comprehensive solution. With such a starting point, the center part has given an opening for a strike-through for matters the Labour Party has to look back at the end result. It is also not difficult for the Centre Party to support the priorities set out in the budget agreement for 2000. It is also important that the person who is open through constructive negotiations to provide support be met with the same will. So it must be as long as the government is anchored in a minority in the Storting. It's been a tradition for the past few years. I would like to stress that the parties with government responsibility have an additional responsibility for progress and the willingness to find good common and collective solutions. The central party has again powered this task. It consumes the government, it consumes the people we're chosen to rule, and it devours them or that party in the opposition that sees the same will. When it comes to the concrete content of the agreement, about 1 900 million. redeployed within the budget, where labour market measures, industry and transport have been strengthened in addition to the Government’s proposal of approximately 530 million. kr. The municipal economy is strengthened by 685 million. This includes a contribution to regional hospitals. The permits for the construction of student buildings and several rentals are heights, challenge measures amounting to approximately 320 million. kr and various welfare measures of 180 million. kr. In the tax area, the tax on energy use is increased by 2.5 cents per year. kWh. The AMS scheme is liquidated. Minor changes have been made in company taxation and the sharing model for liberal professions. And for the purposes of distribution policy, there is a new step 2 in the top tax of 6 pst. for revenues above 16 G or approximately 760000 DKK. Increases in tax revenue have been redeployed through the phasing-in of a new salary deduction of DKK 30600 and the wage adjustment of the entry point at the first stage of the peak tax. The government has submitted proposals to change the geographical scope of the differentiated employer fee. 39 municipalities have reduced their fees and a total fee of around 330 million. NOK, while 14 municipalities have received the increase in fees of around 245 million. kr. With these changes ESA has notified the new scheme. There is therefore reason to conclude that we now have an EEA-legal system, with differentiated employer fees that can be passed on as tools in district policy. For the 14 municipalities that are in a hurry to get the tax up, the Centre Party and the Labour Party have been in favour of compensatory measures asking the Government to promote the Stortingen in the revised national budget. In this setting, there is also clarity in the question of what should be used as the basis for estimating the output of property taxes by municipalities on power generation. After the tax settlement in Innst. O. No 62 for 1995-96, it was assumed that the income of the power stations would not be impaired as a result of the implementation of the tax on own resources section 8. In retrospect, it has been found that using Section 8 as the basis of assessment would reduce the income of the municipalities from about 1000 million. NOK 600 million. kr. There is now a number that realizes the same thing as the Center Party claimed in 1996, that it is not possible to get these revenues without a new section 8, which is now asked by the Government. In conclusion, I would like to stress that within a tight budget for 1999, I have to be satisfied with the results of the government's financial planning so far this year. That's what we have to take care of, and the budget for the year 2000 is going to be a means to that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e892	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e895	The representative Holte expressed in a previous line how important it was to keep words. I noticed now that Holte was quite clear that he was pleased that the Labour Party had shown clear priorities in the budgetary agreement we now agree on. It is a large section of the budget in which the Government has discussed the issue of pension schemes, and this is also reflected in the position taken by the Finance Committee, among others. on page 44. I'll take a few quotes from that setting: ‘The aim of the proposal is to limit...’ And... ‘... the applicable rules on private occupational pensions are amended...’;» In other words, the government has problematized and sowed some doubts about different schemes. Therefore, I would like to ask Jørgen Holte: What is the opinion of the Zenterpartie on the AFP scheme – the contractual pension scheme – which is an agreement between employees and employers? It's a successful system, it's a good system, and it's a system to which trust and not least security is attached. The Party of Workers, SV and the People's Party of Cross-Political Elections endorsed this pension scheme as follows: «... The AFP scheme must be continued in line with the AFP and that further work on pension issues must support the provision of social security as a common fully-fledged pension scheme for all.» Is it now that the Central Party does not join the AFP system and call about the popular security, as we have marked in a committee position?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e918	There is no reason for Tore Nordtun to doubt that the AFP scheme is still in place. Tore Nordtun is also right to say that the government of the national budget has problematised the case. There is also no goal for the Center Party to separate each and a 62-year-old from working in a combination with social security. It is a recognition – and I believe that the Labour Party and Tore Nordtun must be able to participate – that the minimum resources we have today are available to the labour force. What the government has chosen to do is to say that there should be no target of maximising in the further development of these schemes the need to be more and more – to use that expression – separated from a professional life when one is 62 years old. Actually, there are some people in this room who are reasonably leading to continuing to be here. What's going on in the comment we have on this chapter is that we think that people with life experience are worth taking care of in the workforce, and that facilitating a combination of work and social security is not so bad at a time when labour is the minimum factor.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e925	The President takes the opportunity to recall paragraph 38 of the Stortinge Rules of Procedure, that speech is to be addressed to the President. It is, of course, a strong memory for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e929	The government, with the Senterpartiet known, has proposed a sharp increase in the electricity charge, in the diesel charge and in the car charges, a continued increase in the petrol charge, in the charges on passenger flights, in the real estate charges are increased by 10 pst., there will be a sharp increase in the sulphur charge on automotive diesel, etc. Most of these increases will affect businesses and people working outside the central eastern region, especially hard, as distance costs are increased. This is not a new central party policy. They have been in charge of this policy for a long time. At the same time, and in order to counteract the outcome of this failed tax policy, the Centre Party must increase the allocation of SND. The results of the policy recorded by most countries have led to a steady rise in altitudes from District Norway to the central eastern region. I assume that the representative Holte has also registered this development. I am surprised that when the Central Party sees that their tax and tax policy leads to the need to add more and more funds to the SND, so that they can send money back to the companies from which they have taken the money, they continue to do so. When you see that this use of instruments does not work, it would have been possible to explain why someone with increased strength continues to use wrong instruments, nor is it trying to ensure farm and population growth throughout the country, namely to lower the strange level of fees. Shouldn't the Center Party get out before the entire District Norway is depopulated?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e938	No one is better than the Progress Party and Kenneth Svendsen in tax reductions. We could be a few of them about that. When it comes to the fees that Kenneth Svendsen and the Progress Party in turn and order in this setting will reduce and partially liquidate, I don't think Kenneth Svendsen and the Progress Party will be able to do much more than a little half-year in the next four-year period. Because with that one, the government budget will give you money back, I think it will stop. But let me take the electricity charge as one of the charges that Kenneth Svendsen was busy with. Yeah, we're increasing the electricity charge, there's no new principle. We change the level, and I believe even the Progress Party has been with and voted for us to have an electricity charge. It's a little awkward about the level, but now we're increasing the level to achieve three things. We are creating the basis for a new industry in alternative energy. We know that if we got the price of electricity, we'd get up and stand up to other energy carriers -- which, with the technology leap, is actually almost done, but it's not possible to get out to the consumers. It is a good environmental policy, because the general consumption is very high, and it is not certain that the Progress Party and the Centre are some of the things that are available and that are going to be expanded in this country. So that's good environmental policy, and that's good distribution policy. It is good distribution policy in this way that in the draft budget we have increased the minimum deduction so that one compensates for those with the lowest income.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e945	Let me follow up the previous lines by saying that I think it is time to take a closer look at the actual district policy of the Centre Party, not just the district policy they want to present. One thing is that the charging load is worse in District Norway, especially the charging load associated with transport and communication. Another thing is that even though the government is promoting a lot of extra money related to development and stimulation also for business development, they are moving the ground under established business through their worsening of the framework conditions. One element of the agreement is e.g. the reduction of depreciation rates for commercial real estate in districts from four to two percentage points, more in reduction than in central districts. You change the content of the divisional model to make it worse for family-run businesses. And the representative Jørgen Holte knows, not least from his own district, that family-run businesses are the basic structure of Enterprise-Norway in the districts, not least in the West. The problem with the district effort of the Government is that it is paid by the already existing industry in the districts. What you do is you make sure that companies that could go with profits go with deficits and need help, because you're exacerbating the framework conditions. Doesn't Jørgen Holte see that what you're actually doing is counteracting the increased development of the districts with a business life that could function on its own premises, when you increase the distance constraints, not follow up its roadblocks, and when you make changes to the framework conditions such as constraints on the sharing model and depreciation rates, which are actually undermining the business that creates jobs and housing in the districts today. There will be no more residence of positivity consultants in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e956	The representative Erna Solberg doubts that being a little positive about district development is some property in itself. But it's not so bad to start there. When we look at Right's actions when it comes to district bets, it's clear that I don't take from the representative Erna Solberg and Right that they've been very good at promulgating promises to road and transport. But when you look at how much disembarkation is going to take in District Norway for these roads to come, at least we see that financing them the way the Right now does, almost what is called a basement staircase – it's kind of going down the road and not going up the road. It's true that in the budget agreement we weakened the depreciation rules. It is also true that, in relation to the sharing model, we seized the identification rule, we are familiar with that. I believe that even the Right and the representative Erna Solberg could be some in it. We're actually now getting so far that it's become a sport of our own to get out of being obliged to share, which in turn leads to unfortunately fewer and fewer active owners, as Erna Solberg quite rightly said. They're a lot of -- fortunately -- in the state that I'm from. But in that county, we have also invested in active and good agriculture, unlike the cut right has presented, and we have invested in the development of nutrition through the State Food and Rural Development Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e965	I would like to ask the representative Holte a question about who has the main responsibility for this agreement when it relates to the lack of commitment that one has at school, and thus also the responsibility for the reactions that one now has in Kommune-Noreg and among teachers and parents. The center itself says that no, they didn't promise anything in the election campaign – it's not their responsibility. But we have to assume that the voters think more than the last election, that they think, for example. the centre party said in the second last election campaign about the school. ‘The centre party believes that the focus on education and research is on the most forward-looking investments we can make’, says the programme of the Centre Party. And in the Adult Declaration, this is followed up by all the Centre comrades: ‘Setting education and competence is crucial’, it says. Yes, then it's interesting for the Storting and for people out there who act against the policy that now stands for the plural, to know who's responsible. I assume that the centre party – based on what they have formulated in their programmes – has actually been involved in the settlement negotiations to try to get an extra bet on the school, and that it is therefore the Workers' Party's responsibility that we now have a poor budget for the school. It would be interesting to hear what the representative Holte thinks about this. What can the representative Holte say to the parents and teachers who are now taking action to get something done for the school? What can he do for them in time?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e976	The representative Langeland tried to create the impression that the Government, the Center Party and the Center Party are not betting on the school. I recognize that the right and SV in the election campaign now last autumn talk a lot about betting on the school. They created both here and there, at least at the meetings I was, the impression that a jam in the state budget would signal an increase in salary levels, I think it was a party that actually talked about $50,000 – 60 000 per person. learner. I haven't seen anything more about it, but it was mentioned. It is very possible that this is the initiative that SV and the representative of Langeland also identify themselves with. We do things in the right order, as opposed to SV. They want to do everything, and everything is equally important throughout the way. We promised to continue the existing investment in the school. There will be means of research, there will be growth in the basic schools, there will be an increase in the municipal economy, etc. But what we're now going to do first is we're going to finish the reform that's related to health and the elderly. And it's a big lift. That's why the Center Party didn't choose to go into the election campaign and promise something we wouldn't be able to hold. Because we've actually seen ourselves lead to keeping what we've promised, whether it's health and older or school.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e983	I'm recording that the representative Holte is very pleased to get a better social profile on next year's budget. And if it's a party that really has reason to be satisfied, it has to be the Center Party. The Central Party, which has often been delighted to present itself as the spokesman of the districts and local authorities, feels that the Workers' Party is the party that fights the matters of which the Centre Party says they are engaged, but which is not well-managed in the budget submitted by the Minister of Finance of its own party. From the central party in the opposition, we heard that the municipalities did not get enough money; in this budget agreement, the Workers' Party has fought for more money for the municipal sector. From the Central Party in opposition, we heard that road appropriations were too small, and that the industry in the districts was having a hard time. But it is the Workers' Party that has pressed for increased funding both for national roads and for county roads, which also benefits the industry in the districts. From the Central Party in opposition, we heard that we were spending too little on education. But together with the Workers' Party, there has been a stronger commitment to education. I therefore understand that Holte appreciates getting some drag in the Storting for matters for which his own party has either not got through in the government, or has not prioritised in the government's budget discussions. I hope that Holte and the Center Party will remember these experiences if they will be in opposition again in the future. Isn't the representative of Holte and the Center Party happy that the Workers' Party has pressured the Centre Party to honour the party's own election vows?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e994	As my main post showed, I was glad that the centre party at Stortinget had the power to get through a budget of 99.6 p.m. by the government's affairs will be decided tomorrow. Then I am also pleased that we have a budgetary agreement with the Labour Party, which signals with this that they will enter into their opposition role more constructively than what we experienced in the past two years. If the representative Eirin Faldet is also satisfied with that, then there may be a goal in itself. In any case, we are pleased that the parties that will interact and achieve something, report their opposite position, in this case the government party, and will interact with them in order to achieve a solution. So I'm very happy that the government has been able to get through for 99.6 pst. of matters in the budget – it should not be confused with 36.9 pst. Of course – and that what we will adopt tomorrow is in line with a total solution that we can put behind us. We did that last year, we did that last year, and we are pleased that we have the power this year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1003	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1006	Many have started their speech today by saying that this is the last financial debate in our century, and with some visions of what will happen in the next millennium. Let me say a little bit about what are my visions ahead. In short, the situation is this: we have more freedom of action than any other country we can compare with. We also have greater freedom of action than any generation before us. At the same time, the world is more intertwined than ever, and external relations affect to a greater extent than before the decisions we make in the Storting, both on good and bad. But it must never be a sleeping cushion, as it has become for some political parties, because there is therefore an opportunity there. There's a room for action, and what's the challenge in the next century is to use that space of action. We can establish, as a former Prime Minister said, that Norway is a small country in the world. But at the same time, we are one of the richest nations in the world – with incomes that most countries will envy us. What's paradoxical is that many of these revenues, we're told, we're not going to use, because it can lead to higher interest rates and imbalances in the economy. And that's probably partly right. But what's interesting is to remember what happened to last year's government budget. Last year we were told that there had to be a tightening of NOK 9 billion, if not an imbalance in the economy – interest rates were going to rise, and inflation was going to increase. In other words, the oil - corrected deficit was sacred. If you look at the national budget, you'll see that the oil-corrected deficit has gone up by $10 billion in the last year, which is $1 billion more than the tightening up that was the alpha and omega last year. It tells us that economics and politics, of course, are not exactly science, and it tells us that many of the exercises the Storting is doing are more psychological exercises than reality. And the reason is that of course we have a wealth domestically, we have a debt-free state, and Norwegian economy is bottom-solid. SV does not want to spend much more of the oil money than the other batches. We use approx. $2 billion for investments, mainly at school. In this way, we follow up on what we promised in the election campaign. But what's obvious is that there's no absolute zero point for what you can spend on oil money. The fourth year’s exercises show that there is a significant slingshot as long as the state has as well-solid government finances as it has. We're both indebted and we have money on book, which a former finance minister liked to express it. And just in these days, money flows in faster than ever. We have an oil price of over $26 per hour. barrel, which is more than $17 per. the oil price we had at the lowest last year. This makes Norway extremely rich, but at the same time it makes us extremely vulnerable and more oil dependent than ever. The entire Norwegian economy is essentially dependent on the commodity price of one commodity. It was fully visible last year when the oil price fell, and we got a considerable turbulence in the economy. We actually only have one egg, and we have put that egg in one basket – and it is very risky. This is why the main challenge at the dawn of the new millennium is how to make us less oil dependent, and how to ensure that we get a more versatile business. In other words, we must switch from the black oil economy to the green knowledge economy. We are not going to live on oil in the next millennium, we are going to live on jobs that are not yet created, in completely different sectors than in the petroleum sector. This is why it is one of the most important structural policies to prevent unemployment, to build the welfare state and to secure our pensions. Neither is the oil wealth to pay our pensions, to the extent that someone has believed it – that is what we have in our heads and hands, that is, the work we do, which will also be the most important in the future. It is this perspective that is lacking in this debate and in what will be adopted later. The knowledge society we're already part of is what we have to draw out. We have called our alternative state budget: children and young people – on the road to the knowledge society. What we're emphasising is that we need to use the space for action and the opportunities we have to meet all the challenges we face both domestically and not least abroad. In many ways, Norway is a different country, because we are so rich. But now it is not an objective to be a different country — what is a goal is to be a precursor country. And that's what we have the opportunity to, an opportunity that we're playing a long way on the way. Let me draw up five areas in which we want to take advantage of the freedom of action to be a priority country, and where the SV's alternative state budget sped up the course. The first is natural enough education. We promised in the election campaign to launch a campaign for high school, and we'll follow that up in this budget. What does that mean? Well, that means lower student numbers in the class, that means investing in information technology, that means bonus schools, that means creating variation in education. In short, that means that we have to create a learning appetite. The school shall be a place of learning. But not just for learning, the school should be a place of learning. It's one of the most important things. We need to highlight creativity and quality. That means that the campaign for the high school that SV wants is absolutely necessary, for high school is the most neglected part of our education. It will also bring benefits to people, as stated in the basic school law. That is also what is expected of us by the many out there who, through the fall, have set expectations for education to be given a boost. And it's essentially the Stortinget these expectations are directed at, because it's the Stortinget that will be able to lay the framework for Norwegian education that is necessary. What's also worrying is that the differences in primary school are alarmingly large from those who use the most, to those who use the least. A total of NOK 70000 varies in costs per person. students from the least-used municipalities to the most-used. But it's not just the primary school that needs a boost, our entire education system needs it to build the green knowledge society. It means investing in research, higher education, like universities and colleges, and not least it means investing in high school. In short, expenditure on education is an investment, an investment of which the country will receive ten times as much. In that way, it was interesting what Per-Cristian Foss said. So you can't get any more too small,' he said when he mentioned the school. And that's absolutely right. Many in this room should have remembered it. So we're not going to get too smaller. And that means we don't get more education for less. Let me also mention the reform of continuing education, which is one of the major reforms that point to the next century, a reform SV took the initiative and which has now become the final legislative decision here in Stortinget. It's a reform that points into the next century, it's just about what the new century's working life will be like. The second major challenge in the next century is to reverse the tendency for private consumption to increase much more than the cost of Community tasks. From 1993 private consumption has increased more than public consumption, and the public sector now accounts for 44.7 pst. of the economy, while the average in Western Europe is 3 pst. more. We are also the lowest in the Nordic region in terms of Community expenditure. In other words, we have the paradoxical situation that we have a state wealth, we have a private wealth, but we have a municipal poverty. There's no cause for that. Welfare as school, health, hospitals, care for the elderly, kindergartens are created in Kommune-Norway. Unfortunately, the municipalities are more indebted today than they have ever been in the 1990s. And when the rapporteurs come to Stortinget about the harvest in herds and herds, they sound like SV-are the whole crowd, because everyone says that in my municipality we have difficulties. And what's documented is that they have difficulties. There is therefore no reason why the Greatness should be the gne of creating welfare municipalities in our rich country. SV wants to strengthen the free revenues of the municipalities by SEK 3.6 billion in order to create good community services and to create the space for action that all our local politicians, regardless of the party, want, because local politicians today have no room for action to create good municipalities. In addition, we need to better distribute our wealth between generations, between capital and work, and not least between groups in society. Private consumption exploded in the 1990s. In the last ten years, they have 10 pst. the poorest has reduced their share of the income from 4,1 pst. to 3.7 pst., while the 10 pst. The richest has increased its share from 18.6 pst. to 21.7 pst. So we've gotten bigger class distinctions over the 1990s. In addition, if you include the tax-free dividend, which is essentially due to the 10 pst. richest, you'll see that the differences have increased dramatically. This is also confirmed in the Government’s main message on Difference Norway. In its alternative budget, SV has pointed to a number of measures that may address some of these. The most important thing is the tax on dividends, where we want, as the government wanted last year, to raise the general tax rate to 29 p.m. combined with a large deduction of NOK 43 000 for ordinary employee income. We also want, as in the conciliation, a new step in the top tax – but we want it a little lower than the resolution partners did – we also want to make improvements in the employer's fee, and we want to zero out the increases in the proportion of self-employed people in the health sector, just to mention some of it. So for SV, sharing is one of the most important things, and one of the most important perspectives in the next century. One of the most depressing features of Norwegian policy is that we have gone from being a leading country in environmental policy to becoming a slowdown. Unfortunately, we are further away from achieving the objectives of the Kyoto Agreement today than we were when the agreement was concluded. This is mainly because the green tax conversion has stopped. This is because our private consumption has exploded, and not least because of the extreme oil dependence of the nation. This means that ecology and the economy must merge, which it does not per cent. today. This means that the sustainability of nature must be based on all policies. In that alternative, we propose to continue what the Green Tax Commission recommends. We also continue to upgrade public transport, clean-up of old coastal environmental sins, and not least investment in energy savings. One of the most discouraging features of the budget that will be adopted is the reduction of the CO2 tax on the base. There is evidence of how an environmental tax has actually led to good results. Norwegian cap has the lowest CO2 emission per. unit produced worldwide by oil producing countries. Now that the CO2 tax is reduced, it will not be an incentive to reduce emissions to the same extent. In addition, if you look at the oil price, there should also be no specific reason to give oil companies tax relief in these days where you get $27 per dollar. Let's go. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, Green policy also means shifting from an oil economy to a knowledge-based economy. This means that the level of investment in the petroleum sector needs to be reduced, and that also means conversion in order to maintain competence and develop new jobs. We are now entering the third phase of the energy age in Norway – first we went from water to oil and gas, and now we must go from oil and gas to develop new sustainable energy also for our industry. There are many opportunities to develop it, and that is not least what we see in our neighbouring countries Sweden and Denmark, both of which are significant net exporters of sustainable energy technology. So we're going to have to start the conversion now. For many years we will still have a significant level of investment in the petroleum sector, so starting a transformation right at this stage will in many ways make sense. We also have a freedom of action with regard to international solidarity in order to reduce the gap between the poorest and richest countries. Therefore, SV suggests stepping up u-help to achieve the goal of 1 pst. of GNI for u-help in four years. In all these areas, we have a freedom of action that we do not use today. It's true, as many speakers here have been concerned about, that you should try to raise your eyes a little bit at the entrance of the new millennium. And I'm going to think that everyone agrees that we won't live off oil in the next century. We'll live on oil for a while in the next century, but not the whole century, and at least not the whole millennium. This means that the transition that must take place must take place at a stage when the oil economy is escalating and where we can escalate the knowledge economy. It means a broad commitment in many different fields, where not least education will be the keyword. I remember what Tony Blair said in the previous election campaign were the three most important things: ‘education, education and education’. I hope many people here in the hall will also remember. Right and left, SV just ran election campaigns out of that message, and more people should have done it. Unfortunately, the budgetary agreement that has now been concluded does not have that in itself. Nevertheless, SV is pleased that the Workers' Party and the Government have made a budgetary settlement – not so much for what is being adopted, because it must be said in truth to be modest, but primarily because it is parking the Right and Advance Party on the sideline. The reconciliation can best be characterised as a centre-center-cooperation. But the most important thing is that it has broken with four budget commitments where the government has gone to the right-hand side of the policy. This gives perspectives, from the point of view of the SV, on new patterns of cooperation in Norwegian policy even after the next major decision. But for SV, however, the most important perspective that has been drawn up here is that in the next millennium we will create a solidarity and ecologically sustainable society. Finally, I have to bring up the proposals that have been referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1061	Øystein Djupedal has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1067	I can agree much that what Djupedal says, and the Workers' Party would also want us to be able to get more money to the municipalities, more money for higher education, more money for the environment and many of the things that Djupedal raised. What I'm responding to is what Øystein Djupedal writes in his remarks in the financial position. He writes: ‘The working party has failed to bring about a change in the policy that the voters will label’. I think that might be a little disrespectful of the voters who are actually being helped by this budgetary agreement. We're going to have 2,000 more babysitting places on the deal. I actually think there are 2,000 families of children who want to notice. We're going to get 1,000 new student homes on the deal. I think it's students who want to notice. We get 3,500 more labour market measures. That means there are 3,500 people who are going unemployed, who are being helped, and who would not be without this budgetary agreement. We'll get 100 million. kr for free school books. It means an improvement for many families who have high school students. The low salary that was deducted from the sick pay by the Right, the Advance Party and the centre last year will be refunded from 1 January. They'll notice that. We'll give 500 million. kr more to the municipalities. This means that rapporteurs and local authorities around the world can spend a little more on care for the elderly, a little more on kindergartens and a little more on schools. We would like to get more, but that's what we got. For us, it's the results that count, and that's why it's wrong what Øystein Djupedal says about the compromise not going to benefit the voters. There will be people around the country who notice differences in the fact that the Labour Party now has an influence on budgetary policy, and that the Centre is not in partnership with the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1083	It is always nice when you experience that co-representatives have actually taken the trouble to read the excellent work that both I and the big group have done. I would like to thank Trond Giske for that. What is the most important thing in the future is to strengthen the Community's tasks in our society. Throughout the 1990s, or at least since 1993, public consumption has been lower than private consumption. After all, it has also accelerated the two previous budgetary agreements with the Right and the Advance Party, which have had only one adjustment in everything they do, and it is that taxes should not be increased, in any case, preferably reduced, and Community consumption should be shaved. In this way, I will give the representative the right to say that what this budgetary agreement in many ways leads to is to reverse that trend. So it's true that you could say that it might be noticed by someone, because otherwise it would get worse, and in that way I'll give the representative a guess. But it's a shame. With all due respect, it's modest. We have said since the budget agreement was concluded that we appreciate the conclusion of a settlement in that direction, and we have also always said that we have expectations that the agreement may have greater significance in the longer term. But the most important thing, from my point of view, is that the Workers' Party and the Centre have moved so modest amounts in relation to what they have done with the previous budgetary agreements, and it amazes me. One would think that the Workers' Party had good dealers, which I guess they have. If you think about last year's state budget, you removed in one night, or one hour, NOK 4.5 billion when the finance committee got a note on the table, and that's how it was, and then we see that this is messaged. But I'm going to give guesses that the direction here is more right than the option would be. There are also greater opportunities for SV to point out the areas of action in the future, not least in terms of education, and I also feel very comfortable with and sure that the efforts made by SV in the field of education will eventually also be seen as necessary – simply because education is not a partisan matter, education is a social matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1096	The Progress Party wants a real implementation of the Rattsø reform in the area of municipal transfers in order to ensure a fairer distribution between municipalities. The current differences are much greater than the expenditure needs would be expected. This leads to large differences in supply also in school, health and care. Now we see examples of the results in some of the low-income municipalities, with large cuts in the core areas. The most dramatic example is perhaps the municipality of Arendal, where there are proposals for the closure of five schools, a nursing home and kindergartens, lower social assistance rates and the withdrawal of 150 years' work. But other municipalities are also in economic crisis. When we know that the difference between the poorest and richest municipality is in the order of 16 000 to 133 000 kroner in income per person. per capita years, SV then agrees that it will be relatively pointless to talk about the municipal sector as a whole, and that it is important to implement the proposals in the Rattsø Committee’s position in order to balance these large sized differences. In the hope of not getting an answer that only mentions the cut of the Progress Party in the municipal sector, I would like to state that the SSB calculated that our overall arrangement would improve the finances of the municipalities by approx. DKK 2.4 billion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1105	I have to take the line very seriously. But it is necessary to say first that it is a little surprising that the Progress Party chooses to take a line on the UK on local economy. Without remembering the details of the Progress Party, I imagine that we are talking about a removal of taxes and charges in the order of NOK 23 billion. So, of course, it's possible to feed all of the economic models into a computer, which on the other hand asks for a result that says that then people are going to work so and so much more, and then people are going to work like that, and so they get a positive result. Everyone knows that's not right. It was Margaret Thatcher's great idea in the 1980s in England: if a just removed tax, people were going to work so much more. Never has unemployment exploded more than it did during Margaret Thatcher. It is clear that a high level of Community consumption is the whole key both to employment, to well-being, to all the important things we are doing. I have met many Progress Party local politicians who come to me and complain about the situation in Kommune-Norway. The Progress Party has a lot of local politicians who are sitting and struggling with the very same problems that our people are struggling with. For they have the same parents on the door: Why are you going to lay down my nursery? Why should the SFO tariff go up? Where's that become of what we were promised? The local politicians of the Progress Party have exactly the same people on the door that our people have. But what is the Progress Party on the Storting doing? Well, they feed a lot of models into a tough machine and say they're strengthening the community economy. But it is not a human being in the world who believes it. Everyone knows that the Progress Party has one goal in mind, and that is to reduce the income of the state and municipalities through lower taxes and taxes, because that way it is believed that society is getting better. We have the exact opposite of the starting point. We want to strengthen the economy of municipalities because it's where welfare is created, that's how good municipalities are created, that's where solidarity is created, and that's where you create important, good values for our children and young people. That's SV proud of.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1116	I think it is nice to hear Øystein Djupedal describe the room for action that Norway has. I also hope that Djupedal can agree that the Government has agreed to provide a good basis for directing an economic development that has now given us the space for action that we actually have. Djupedal stated that SV does not want to spend much more of the oil money, and that we have to get away from the nation's oil dependency. Nevertheless, it appears that SV will use a lot for most, even more for selected areas and most for schools. When not so much is to be collected from the oil money – where in the budget does SV mean that this money can be collected? That is, what is the down priority of Djupedal and his party? I also want to ask a question in relation to the expectations that were created in the election campaign through promises of concrete wage increases. Is SV, along with the Right, responsible for the expectation that was created and that is now being converted into disappointment and contempt for politicians' breach of promises? The Government cooperated on the two previous budgets with the Progress Party and the Right. SV halted and described this as unfortunate for Norway. When it is now working with the Workers' Party, it is somewhat less strained – but still, it is small. I allow myself to ask: what kind of cooperation should the centre involve in order to create a majority for a budget that SV does not want to overwhelm?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1130	Excuse me, sir. President!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1137	It's about not taking water over your head, sir. Deep pedal. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1140	First, I would like to thank Marthinsen for a good line, and I must also thank the President for a quick line. I do not recognize that SV is suspending. On the contrary, I think most people know SV politicians who are quite simple-lived people, and we don't stop either. But we have given a political criticism of what has taken place in the previous two years, and we have also pointed out weaknesses in the budgetary settlement that has now been concluded. But it is true, as was said, that of course we wanted this to be more welcome than the previous budgetary agreements. I also used a part of my post to describe it. Marthinsen took up a lot of things, and let me just concentrate on what I experience as the most important thing. The economic space we have is much larger than the government has so far expressed. And after the exercises the Stortinge did last fall, when we were going to cut down with exactly 9 billion kroner, and the whole country's existence in a way was at stake, we see in the national budget that it's now spent 10 billion more. The 10 billion has probably been spent, because we have, among other things, Seeing that unemployment did not increase as much last winter as it would otherwise have done, and that means that the money has probably gone to maintain important activity in the economy. It is clear that the public as an engine and an activity cabinet in the economy is important, but it also shows that the sacred point that everyone said was so sacred is not so sacred. That's because we have a bottom-solid state economy, which is mainly because we have a commodity that is incredibly valuable, and it makes us very vulnerable. My whole article was about the following: how do we make ourselves less vulnerable in the economy? We have a room for action today, and it has been used primarily, and I would like to pay tribute to the Government for that. Unemployment in Norway is low — it is a very good thing — and this government has also been good at ensuring that we have had some activity so that unemployment has not increased. I have therefore not spent much time criticising the Government for that either. In the government's forecasts, unemployment seems to increase until winter. That's what worries me. Then we have to start activity and not just new day money measures. It was a very comprehensive line, so this was what I raked.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1153	It may be worrying, but I want to say that very much of what the representative Djupedal said corresponds to what the right-wing representatives have said in every financial debate throughout the 1990s. The need to invest in Knowledge Norway to ensure that we will have something to live off and have a well-being in the years after the oil age and to ensure that we become too oil-dependent has been the review tone of Right's policy throughout the 1990s in all these debates. It is positive to hear that SV now has the same opinion, but what I miss is an understanding that getting there requires more than giving more money to school or more money to all the other things in the public budgets. It requires an understanding of how to create an alternative source of income, an alternative business in Norway, in relation to the strong oil dominance, one must also consider how to create these jobs and what the conditions are in our economy to achieve them. Where are the conditions of SV's policy to create a willingness to risk among people to leave their safe jobs in public, to use the knowledge they have gained, to create jobs that generate income both through exports and other activities in Norway? Where are those mechanisms? They don't exist anywhere. On the other hand, the fiscal policy of the SV and, in particular, the wage and tax policies seem so smooth that the possibilities of taking a risk are drastically limited by their entire approach. I don't understand that SV is at all afraid to say that they have a policy to create an alternative business in Norway, when their entire policy is really about increasing public transfers and no mechanism changes in terms of risk willingness in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1160	I would like to thank Erna Solberg for a very good line. The first part of her line was about SV and Right in many ways having the same angle of incidence that we should not live on oil. And that's right. But what we've done, which has not been right, is we've been trying for many years to limit the rate of investment in the North Sea in order to create room for investment elsewhere. Over the last few years, we've spent 70 billion dollars investing in the oil sector. In the years before, we have used approx. 50 billion kroner. So one sector is allocated so much of society's total investment that the rest of society suffers. We have wanted a shift in investment from petroleum to the rest of our business. And we have a lot of understanding for business, just so it should be said. I personally, and I've said that before from the pulpit of Storting, are very impressed by people who are able to create their own jobs from an idea, from their workforce – it impresses me rawly. I myself have been employed in a small enterprise throughout my working life, so that issue is not foreign to me. Therefore, it surprises me that Erna Solberg does not see that the Norwegian level of taxation for business is not particularly unfavourable. On the contrary, Norway is probably the country in northern Europe with the lowest corporate tax – definitely the lowest tax in the Nordic region – and a comparison has also been made in the national budget for taxation in the Nordic region. What we're concerned about is that we need to have a greater degree of equality in taxation between labour and capital. It is incomprehensible to me that capital should be taxed less than the worn-out Erna Solberg and many of her fellow women in Norway do, or what my fellowmen and I do. So we have a low capital tax and a relatively high labour tax. SV wants a greater degree of equality here, and it's a principle that I think Erna Solberg really has sympathy for, based on her general consideration of how we're going to get into the knowledge society.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1167	In its alternative budget, SV says that one has many common objectives with the centre parties in terms of environmental protection, assistance and district policy and with the Workers' Party in terms of distribution. The balancing message presented in the summer confirms to the full centre party’s claim that the differences have increased during the reign of the Workers’ Party in the 1990s. The Communication demonstrates that, until the government change in 1997, the differences in living conditions had increased. The richest had become richer, and the poorest had fallen behind. Increased capital income is the main reason for the disproportionate development of income. Is it the SV's view that the differences documented and the distribution handles outlined in the balancing communication represent work for better distribution? And in that case, will SV be involved in ensuring a broad majority of the distribution steps that are announced here?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1177	Let me also thank the representative Nymo for a good reply. A few years ago, SV published what we used to call Norway de luxe, which was the first difference report in Norwegian policy. If I don't remember completely incorrectly, I think it was even presented with Hanna Kvanmo on a motorcycle down the Holmenkollen. The concept of Difference Norway is also present in other reports SV have produced, which have subsequently been documented by the Statistical Central Bureau, and not least now documented in the Equalisation Notice. What I can promise the representative, Mr Nymo, is this: we must, of course, support a wide-ranging policy on redistribution. What we think is the lack of a smoothing message is that the measures outlined are so modest. You have a proper description, but then you might see a political landscape that is so inconspicuous that you don't know where to get a majority for what you really mean. So there's no action there that actually works in the larger picture. In its financial position, SV has made a number of proposals on how to balance income and living conditions in Norway. We have simply chosen to do so in this setting because this is where taxes and charges are adopted. That means that we'd like to see the center snooping at the suggestions that we have here. Some of the proposals we have here are also old proposals that we put together with the Center Party and other parties from the middle parties about in the previous magnification period. It is clear that the perspective as Mr. Nymo has, is the same perspective as we have. If we are to create a safer, better and more cohesive society for all, it is clear that we in this Chamber must pursue that policy of distribution, because the market does not pursue a policy of distribution. The market works perfectly well for its things, but if we're going to equalize differences between people, we're here in the main hall responsible for making decisions that are going to twist society in that direction. So I would like to welcome the representative, Nymo, to cooperate constructively on good proposals and actions in the Equalisation Communication.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1190	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1193	The budget for 2000 is a good budget for Norway with the Left’s eyes. It is a good budget for the Norwegian people; never before have so many had it so well in this country, especially compared to other countries and with other times. Government parties have concluded a good settlement with the Workers' Party. The Agreement ensures the priorities of the Government’s policy. The working party has had an influence of 3 out of the state budget’s 550 billion kroner. The government's proposals are well preserved. After two years of cooperation on the right in the United Kingdom, a majority of the budget on the left is secured this year. This confirms the independence of the central government and the ability to cooperate with both sides. We have chosen to cooperate with that side where we always achieve the best results. This year, this was with the Workers' Party. The budget agreement for the year is an agreement on the 2000 budget, neither more nor less. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have opted for the more extreme in their alternative proposals. Cuts in the country's revenues of about approx. 9 and approx. DKK 28 billion is a powerful attack on the welfare community. Such proposals make budgetary cooperation difficult. That's what we in the Left think is search. The Norwegian economy has been brought into a more stable lease, and the central government has proved that the opposition's criticism of lack of control was lacking. Last year there was no way of criticising the opposition about the conditions of the Norwegian economy. Everything was the government's fault. There was talk of ‘bombs under the welfare state’ and ‘threats against houses and homes’. When the Norwegian economy is now proven to be healthy, the best evidence for the Government is that the opposition would like to share the credit for doing so well in Norway. The redistribution resulting from the budgetary agreement has taken place in a way that does not weaken the main efforts of the Government. More free resources for municipalities, increased investment in education, housing, business innovation, welfare and environmental measures are good results of the reconciliation with the Workers' Party. This budget is a small but important contribution to the Left's policy of shifting tax from work to environmental damage taxes. The left and the government have had an impact on yet another step in the green tax shift with an increase in the electricity tax and similar relief in the income tax for those with the lowest income. Every penny we've taken in for the environment, we've given back to the tax collectors. Growth in energy consumption is the greatest environmental challenge facing humanity. If the current increase in electricity consumption continues, several environmentally harmful hydropower projects and the construction of gas power plants will be able to force themselves forward, while continuing to increase the imports of polluting coal power. That's not how we can keep going. Our energy use needs to reflect environmental costs. It's worth saving energy. The use of new, renewable energy sources and energy savings must be profitable. In Denmark, the electricity charge is approx. 10 times higher than in Norway, and Danish charging policies have, among other things, provided an export of wind energy technology of between DKK 5 and 10 billion per year. In this way, the Left will promote new technologies, and thus new jobs, including in Norway. The increased income from the electricity tax uses the Government for tax reliefs for those who serve at least. As a result, the green tax shift will also be a social cohesion reform which will benefit those with the lowest income. It is historic that the Workers' Party now agrees that energy pricing is part of the green tax shift. We in the Left welcome their steps in our direction. The Right Party and the Advance Party have still not provided any alternatives to the necessary environmental tax conversion. Their only answer is still wasted with energy and the construction of gas power plants. The left calls for signals of innovation in the energy policy of the Right and the Advance Party. The central government uses the good development of the Norwegian economy to continue working to make Norway a warmer and more caring society. There will be more hospitals and nursing homes, increased appropriations will be made for the plans adopted in the field of health — for psychiatry, for cancer treatment and equipment for hospitals. We in the Left are also looking forward to more research and innovation – to the jobs of the future. Research funds are increased by 655 million. kr. Government appropriations for the use of information and communication technologies are being quadrupled. The resources of the SME Action Plan are significantly increased. The Seed Capital Scheme is being extended and food and IT-oriented research is being increased. The left also welcomes the fact that the commitment to a safer everyday life is shown in the budget of the Minister of Justice. An increase of approx. 500 million. to speed up criminal proceedings, to strengthen justice and the police, and to step up efforts to combat organised crime. The appropriations for international assistance increase by 6.5 pst. This is a step towards the objective of providing assistance of 1 pst. of GNI over a period of six years. At the same time, the debt cancellation plan for the poorest countries is being followed up. The left is a driving force in the creation of ‘Simplify Norway’ and ‘A more innovative Norway’, among others. to improve working conditions for start-ups and small enterprises. I am therefore particularly pleased that in the budget negotiations we were able to prevent the Workers' Party's attack on the stock abate and resist their proposal for aggravating the sharing model and removing the shipping tax. We have defended these mechanisms because they provide an important basis for growth in employment and value added in Norway. The stock discount lowers the value of family-owned enterprises and small enterprises to compensate for a Norwegian special tax on wealth that provides these jobs with a handicap in raising capital. In any case, the sharing model must not deteriorate significantly because it already provides the innovation with almost double taxation of profits and thus a dramatic handicap over large capital. The sharing model discriminates against the innovations and their opportunities to save for the future. The shipping tax is designed to keep companies registered in Norway. Shipowners, seafarers, shipyards and shipbrokers are inextricably linked. Shipowners may well be driven from tax havens in other parts of the world, but their disappearance will have long-term adverse effects on the whole of Norway, mostly the coast of Norway. Disappearing from Norway, the Knut Kloster-e of the future needs to build the "ResidenceSea" of the future by a Fozen yard. It is the jobs of the future that are threatened by the Workers' Party's constant attacks to exacerbate the sharing model, to remove the stock discount and the shipping tax. It is this Left and the other centre parties have agreed to prevent in these budgetary negotiations. We have agreed to some adjustments, and the Workers' Party should now stop making these attacks taboos. I hope that with this agreement it has created peace and long-termity around the framework conditions for the maritime industry, for the innovations and for the small and family-run businesses, and thus for the very foundation of future value creation – and therefore for the welfare state itself. This government budget provides some significant tax credits for those who serve at least. The increases in minimum deductions and deductions of persons give rise to favourable distribution effects. The significant increase in the minimum deduction greatly facilitates employees with income below NOK 166 000. This will particularly benefit part-time employees and students. One of the main tasks of the Left and Centre is to make it more attractive to start new jobs in Norway, profitable jobs that will provide the basis for the Community in the future to have sufficient tax revenues to develop Norway further into a warmer and more caring society. The left sees the need for our old industries to continue to work to develop their competitiveness. This is becoming more necessary the more international business life becomes. The international division of labour is an important reason why living costs are falling in Norway. The lack of blood and poverty are disappearing as a result of more and more rational product production. The open markets are a prerequisite for the development of Velferds-Norway, but we in the Left are not blind to the threats posed by globalisation. Concentrations of power on the capital side can completely eliminate politicians, as guardians of the interests of the community. That's why politicians have to act as professionally as capital. We need to set a framework and use the state as an owner to compensate for market imperfection, while developing the values we are set to maintain on behalf of the community. The left has neither fear of state nor fear of private interests. The left-wing capitalists Christian Michelsen and Gunnar Knudsen industrialized Norway by the last century, using foreign capital, but under national control. The left considers that globalisation requires unorthodox ownership policies. Therefore, the Left believes that it is right that the State owns a blocking minority position in enterprises that are required to fulfil policy objectives, as well as commercial ones, while at the same time wanting to dispose of the state's interests where the enterprises are to act purely commercially. The left and the other central parties are opposed to the Workers' Party's wish for a large government investment fund to take care of the tasks I have outlined here. The left considers it unnecessary to build another bureaucracy, a new corporate power concentration. Instead, we will use state capital when needed, where necessary, after previous democratic discussion. More than 40 nationwide organisations have been with the Finance Committee and have told them what they think about the Government's budget proposals. It's very instructive, we get clear messages about where the shoe prints. We are facing seemingly insoluble tasks in order to be able to add more resources to school, health, care, research, transportation. Even though the resources that we allocate to all of these areas, which are supposed to make society warmer, safer and more forward-looking, have never been bigger, it still complains from almost all quarters. I was about to say that they sound 'like SVs... all of them', to quote Djupedal. That is why we in the Left believe that the most important reform of this process must be agreed in the new century is a radical transformation of public services. I don't see any possibility of giving the public sector a greater share of the value creation in Norway than what we're already doing. It is my belief that Norway is administered and that future, and necessary, transfers to care, to school and to health are achieved only by moving people and resources from the internal offices of the bureaucracy and out where citizens need them. There is a historical suspense of this budget. At the beginning of the new century, the Workers' Party has for the first time given its support to a budget made by another government. For the left, this is particularly thought-provoking. The left entered this century with both the political and ideological hegemony of Norwegian politics and social life. Many of our social liberal ideas have later become common thoughts. At the beginning of the new century, social liberal ideology has strengthened its role. Most parties confess to the values of the Left, but with very varying strength and conviction. But the left is the same radical reform party as it was at the entrance of the hundredth year we're about to leave. At that time, the left-wing peoples represented the conversion of Norway from farming communities to industrial communities. The left now also represents the new radical reforms in the transition of Norway from an industrial society to a knowledge and information society. The left is optimistic about the future; we see that it is possible to create a more flexible working life, a working life more adapted to the needs of the workers themselves. There is therefore also a need for radical reforms to replace some of the schemes required by the old class struggle. The left's ideology needs no adaptations to the new era, as socialist and conservative ideas experience it at the start of the new century. Some ideologies are dead, but the social liberal lives at best. The great radical reforms left enters into the next hundred years, have this vision: ‘A simpler, more innovative and more sustainable Norway!’ This has also become the vision of the central government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1281	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1284	A self-crust should listen to, because it comes from the heart, and Terje Johansen presented in his post up to several times. So the Left must feel good in the Government, as Terje Johansen's contribution was made. He had many visitors to Norwegian business, but most of them were about taxes. Terje Johansen did not at all address the development we have seen within one of our important industries, namely the Norwegian industry. After several years of decline in industrial employment, the Labour Party was able to reverse this trend in the 1990s, and grew. Now we are seeing another decline in industrial employment. Last year — from the third quarter of 1998 to the third quarter of 1999 — there has been a drop of 25 000 industrial jobs. It cannot be particularly encouraging for the Left, which has the Minister of Industry in the Government, to record that there is a policy leading to a downward trend in industrial employment. I think it should take up the representative Terje Johansen more than rejecting the instrument as a possible state investment fund, which could actually be involved in and contribute to a new growth in industrial employment, which is a very important element in value creation. So there's a reason to ask Terje Johansen: why did he go so smoothly past this important challenge that we have, once again, to grow in the industrial employment?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1289	It is good that the representative Opseth hears that I am speaking from the heart, and it must also be good for the Workers' Party to be involved in such a journey with the Left through this budget. I have devoted considerable attention to the issue of ownership in Norwegian business. I actually have 30 years of experience in this business, and I said that it is necessary for industry to continue to rationalize in order to maintain some jobs. This is not a development that the Left is looking at with joy, but we see it as a necessity if we are to have some industrial jobs left in Norway. Now the representative Opseth takes the higher employment that we had for a very short time in the 1990s to income for the Labour Party's policy. We all know that it was the violent upsurge in oil activity that led to this, and already in the government of Jagland's national budget for 1997, the then government outlined developments, and showed that half of this activity would be achieved in the year in which we are now in. It hasn't been like this – it's not quite a halve, but it's still worrying. What can be said as, I was saying, the final proof that this government, after all, does not pursue such a mad industrial policy as Mr Opseth wants, is that unemployment in Norway is actually lower than it has ever been, and we hope that it will continue. It provides the basis for this Government through its innovation program.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1296	The representative Opseth considered the post from the left to boast. I would more like to regard it as the story of the mouse that stood and boasted that it had raped the cat to Mrs. Halvorsen. This wasn't a way of boasting. Terje Johansen and Left were greatly pleased. I seem to remember that last year too – when the Left agreed with the Right and the Advance Party – they were very pleased. And so were they the year before. The difference between these differences is that this year there will be tax increases and tax increases, while the previous two years have been tax reliefs. Johansen believes that there have been 40 organisations in the committee for consultation, and he sees this as very good. The point that the 40 organisations have been in for a hearing was probably that they were not satisfied with the agreement. I see no reason for them to go to the hearing. What I would like to challenge Johansen on – and the left has been very concerned about, including in this article – is this with the simplification of society. I refer to comments from the Left in the setting, and I quote: ‘Simplified Norway’ — involving, inter alia, the reduction of the form field and the coordinated electronic reporting of business-to-public equality information.’ I expect the purpose to be a reduction in the form field etc. since the Left and Johansen have now recorded that the form field has actually increased in the two years that the Left has been in government. So my question is, what are they going to do now to reverse that development?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1312	The President is of the opinion that not all uses of images are equally well-owned and equally good parliamentary.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1315	I wonder if not a more correct version had been the mouse that roared, and I would like to take care of it. It's true that we in the Left are proud of the settlements we've been on. We have actually been in charge of Norway for over two years now, and we think that is actually good – on the basis that we have in this Parliament. And the fact that we have cooperated with the Progress Party in the previous two periods should also make the Advance Party rejoice. They are also allowed to participate and manage Norway amongst themselves. It is true that last year some tax cuts are being settled. This year, together with the Workers' Party, we have made some reinforcements. It is, after all, all the small things we are doing in relation to this large, heavy budget. But I have to admit that that's not all I'm as happy with in these comparisons that we've been through. This year I see features of the budget that I could have been besides, but this is what is called compromise and conciliation. And it will probably also have to get used to if they're ever going to be in charge of Norway. These 44 organisations that have been consulted in the Financial Committee have a particular character – which I am also quite sure the Progress Party is committed to – that it is the professional lobby organisations, the spokespersons of the special interests, who sign up. And what's continuous about these is that they're never satisfied. This will continue regardless of government in the future if we are to be able to keep a balanced budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1326	After hearing Mr. Terje Johansen's contributions here today, I understand that the level of ambition of the Left has changed. They went into the government offices to get a better tax system for entrepreneurs and, among other things, better sharing model. And in script – as we have been so lucky to be distributed by Terje Johansen – it says on page 7: ‘In any case, the split model must not be significantly deteriorated.’ That's what ambitions are reduced to. And he is now also very happy, he says, because one has managed to resist the worst work party proposals to exacerbate the conditions for sole proprietors. It can then only be seen that the value creation perspective has had to give way to short-term and partly symbolic redistribution reasons in the tax settlement entered into between the Centre and the Workers' Party. Business taxation is tightened, the sharing model is exacerbated by reducing the rate of return on capital, reducing depreciation rates for, among others. construction corresponds to a half-percent increase in the tax on capital, and the marginal tax on labour income is increased and broken by the tax reform assumptions, so that we now have a marginal tax in Norway that goes well beyond 50 pst. I'm actually afraid Terje Johansen got it right when he said last July: I'm terrified that the government will try to support the Labour Party in the budget, because we will then disappear into a big, big hole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1339	Yes, the statement about disappearing into a black hole – and it is something other than a big hole – voices, and that's why we made a deal with the Right and Advance Party last year. This year the situation has changed. Last year we moved to approx. 5 billion kroner in cooperation with the Right and Advance Party. This year we've moved on to something close to half. And what happened in front of this budget was that the representative Foss from the Right went out and said this year the government should not let go so cheaply. I think we've gotten away cheaply. I think that they – what the representative Burnde called it – ‘symbolised’ the changes we have made, show this very thing, that we have actually not been involved in any dramatic deterioration for business. I have to admit that some of the changes we were making are not going, as I said, in the Left's direction. The split model will completely remove the left. It's also related to the fact that we want to dramatically lower the taxes on labour income, but we want to take it back to green taxes. There are a lot of things to the right and the left can agree on in the tax policy in the future. We would like to make a compromise with the Workers' Party, if it is possible to have a majority for it in this Chamber, on a drastic reduction in taxes on people's employees' income. But if we're going to do something close to what both the Right and the Center seem to agree on in terms of education, health, etc., we need to keep a tax level that is somewhat similar to what we have today. That's why we have to take this back to green taxes. And therefore, the fact that the Workers' Party has now been involved in using the electricity tax as a green tax, a progress, which we hope can also be taken seriously by the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1353	It happens every time a left-wing representative here in the Chamber takes the floor for a longer post, that most of the post is about the history of the Left. You might want to be a little bit careful with that, because that might lead some of us to think that it's a party that only has history, and no future, and maybe that's what's actually the situation. I also want to be aware that the Left's representative is talking about something called Left's values, to which most people confess. I don't know what left values must be, but I guess they're the same values that characterize most of us -- tolerance, respect and all of that. So it doesn't have a lot of color. Values are something you have in it, and I guess most people in this room will confess to the same values. I also think most people will notice that it has anything to do with the Left. Then to my line. When you listen to Terje Johansen's posts, it's quite right, as Mr. Opseth was concerned that it is largely business, tax and tax. I am often amazed that a party really believes that taxes and taxes are so overwhelming and important to business. If you talk to business people, they probably have a much more balanced view. Most people like to accept a little lower tax if they get it, but at the same time they see that there are completely different framework conditions that are at least as important. Talking to business leaders, they highlight the need for good knowledge, universities, colleges, good basic education. They point out that we need kindergartens, infrastructure. They point out at all that we should have a good public sector, which is responsible for the well-being of the people. So it might be interesting once to hear a left-hand man say a little bit about what the left-hand man really wants. The only thing that the Left mentions about the public sector is that it needs to be simpler. I don't know what a simpler public sector is, but I guess it might mean a smaller public sector – at least it's close to believing that that's the conclusion. If you think there are people who want to move smaller papers, I can agree. But it would have been interesting to hear if there were any other visions in the Left than just about tax relief.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1362	There are very many good reasons why I dare to draw historical parallels to the Left 100 years ago, at the entrance of this century, and now on the road to the next, because we have a coherent line in that policy over these hundred years. We were the ones who were in charge of the transition from farming communities to industrial communities, and we are going to move on to a new era. It's quite indicative of Left's pride over its past that we talk openly about this, while SV has completely stopped talking about socialism. How many times did the representative Djupedal of the Socialist Left Party mention socialism in his speech today? Obviously, I'm talking about taxes and taxes. This is a financial debate. But why did I talk about it? Well, because we want to use taxes and taxes to create new businesses, new value creation, that is, the foundation of the welfare society, for all the good that SV wants. SV almost doesn't talk about corporations. They think money's being printed on the back of public offices. We know that better in the left hand side. When I talk about the reorganisation of the public sector, it's because we want teachers to stop keeping records and teach more, and doctors to get out of the offices and into the operating rooms. That's what the Left wants.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1371	I can understand that Terje Johansen wants to talk about Left's history, because at least they were big. I had to remind myself that the left does not have 60 representatives in this room, but actually six, when I heard the intensity of the post. When it comes to being independent of blocks, as Terje Johansen went through a lot, most people think of it as winging. I'm afraid of that wingling. We in the Labour Party want to continue working together. But if the Left has the view that they don't care about the redistribution policy next year, don't care about those who have little, but then care more about those who have much, and go to the Right and the Progress Party to cooperate, then it can't be perceived as anything but wings. So to this that applies to industrial policy. Norway has major welfare challenges in the future. There's a lot of change in the way of work. For example, there are 25 000 fewer jobs in manufacturing in the third quarter of this year than they were last year. It has been claimed that we need 200,000 businesses over the next 20 years. I have seen that the Left believes in tax policy and reducing the form field. Does Terje Johansen and Left believe that this alone will lead to new businesses and jobs? - Nope. When we know, in addition, that promises to the industrial tools, to the SND, before business advice, before travel life and before internationalisation are severely reduced during this period of government and the years left have been in the government office with the Minister of Industry, we are in danger. What is Johansen's comment on that? So the representative says Johansen there must be state capital where it needs to be. Yes, where is the state capital in the state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1382	I have to go to a confession here. It is obvious that the representative of Ausdal Starrfelt is right that the Left is no longer big, so I congratulate him on the observation. On the other hand, we are relatively significant because we have six representatives in a government and have four members of government. We're in charge of Norway. When the representative, Ausdal Starrfelt, allows himself to talk about ‘winging’ from the Left side, after the Workers' Party has given its support and moved 0.4 pst. of the government budget in relation to the government's proposal, I have to say that the amplitude, the impact on wings, has probably become somewhat less than what we – I was saying – have been accustomed to from others. What I'm trying to convey on behalf of the Left in terms of the use of state ownership and state capital is a mixture – in the belief that there are innovators, individuals, who are going to create jobs for the future. We see that the industry is rationalising more and more jobs, which they have to do to get involved, and then it is necessary to ensure that these innovations are given the same armshake, the same opportunity as the Workers' Party – and partly with the support of the Right – has given the big capital over time. That's what we're trying to do. When Ausdal Starrfelt talks about innovation, she's talking about the instrument, that is, the public effort. [[The President clubs.]] We also use it, and the Minister of Industry's efforts with the SND are well-known, but we believe that individuals too must benefit.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1396	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1399	The Workers' Party has chosen to conclude a budgetary agreement with the Centre Parties. We have done so because we have had an impact on important changes in the budget, changes that will contribute to more fairer distribution and more sharing. We are thus in favour of turning the direction of Norwegian policy. Last year and the year before, the budgets were adopted by the Central Parties choosing to cooperate with the Right and the Advance Party. It gave the two right parties greater influence than they have had in many years in Norwegian politics. The result was that the policy was changed to the right. We were cut off the sick pay for the lowest paid, cut off the labour market measures for those who are weakest in the labour market. It was cut into the school leisure system, and kindergarten expansion was record low. The more happy it is that there is now a majority in favour of a different policy, that the policy is shifted to the left. There are long traditions in Norwegian policies for cooperation between the Centre and the Workers' Party. Cooperation has not always been easy, but it has been important, because it is when the centre and social democracy have not been able to find common solutions, that the right side has had influence in Norwegian policy. We saw that under the Willoch and Syse governments, and we've seen that in the last two years. For the Workers' Party, there is no aim to drive the centre parts into the arms of the Right and Advance Party. On the contrary, we want to cooperate with them. That is why we have reached an agreement on the budget for next year. The budgetary agreement between the Working Party and the Centre may be a turning point. It may be the beginning of more lasting cooperation for more equitable distribution and stronger Community solutions. It can also provide the basis for new majority formations, increased governance and more stability and predictability for the country. But then the centre parties of one year can't choose to cooperate with the Workers' Party, for the next year to go in alliance with the right parties on a completely different policy. Such a wing does not give fair distribution or stable control. I'm asked what I think we're going to live on when the oil ends. Then I answer as true is, I don't know. And I don't know anyone else who knows that either. And it really doesn't worry me that much. On the contrary, I am much more concerned when I meet people who believe to know with certainty which companies are going to give us incomes and contribute to financing well-being when oil revenues start to end in 30-40 years. We knew very little 30-40 years ago about what we were going to live on today. So late as in the late 1950s, our leading geologists ruled out that there could be oil and gas in the Norwegian continental shelf. Today, petroleum accounts for more than one third of our exports and is therefore clearly our largest export product. The second largest is farmed fish. Neither were many who could imagine just a couple of decades ago. Much less did we have the imagination to predict that information technology, computer programs and Internet solutions would provide the basis for some of the most dynamic and profitable businesses we have in Norway today. What businesses we live on tomorrow, we don't know today. On the other hand, we know quite a lot about what we should do today to create conditions for having profitable and good businesses even when the oil business is escalating. Now that we want to live off work – not the work of others, but the work of each other, as Erik Brofoss said. And we'll be even more dependent than before on the fact that the workforce has knowledge and competence. Not least because of this, the Labour Party has contributed to the majority of a budget that makes working more profitable, especially for those with the lowest incomes. And we've had a positive impact on more education. The budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Workers' Party provides significant tax relief for those with the lowest wages. It contributes in itself to more equitable distribution, and it also becomes more profitable to work. Social security and other public benefits are often reduced when you go from social security to work. For many, it means that there is little or nothing to profit from going to work. For some, it's direct loss. For example, a quarter of those who are unemployed in Norway, or on reintroduction, will experience that more than 80 pst. the income of employees disappears in the form of social security losses and increased taxes. Therefore, work needs to be more profitable — not by reducing public social security benefits. Many depend on them. On the other hand, we can reduce the tax on work. Lower taxes on low earnings are a step in the right direction. In addition, the Workers’ Party has been given a majority to reject the central government’s proposal that far more people with normal salary pay top taxes. The Labour Party wants to invest more in education than the Government provided in its budget. In the agreement with the government parties, we have had an impact on important additions: Universities and colleges get 120 million. They receive one billion dollars in increased income. This makes it possible to use more, among other things. 100 million will be granted. kr more as a start to the work of introducing free school books in secondary school. Funding for the school leisure scheme is increasing by 100 million. kr. Historically, access to capital and natural resources has been the very basis for the well-being of nations. However, the development of new computer programs and genetic codes has replaced the pursuit of gold and the conquest of new land. The main source of wealth and wealth will not lie in the commodities and in the capital; it will lie in the human beings and their knowledge. We don't know which industries, what businesses we're going to live on when the oil ends, but we know that we're going to live on labour and knowledge. The budget agreement is an agreement that involves more commitment to work and more focus on knowledge. That's why there's also a real step on the threshold into the 21st century.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1450	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1453	The representative Stoltenberg began by stressing the importance of not having driven the centre parts into the arms of the Right and Advance Party this time. But in those arms, the center parts have actually enjoyed well for two years in a row, so it can't possibly be so cruel to be inside the warm, soft arms of the Right and the Advance Party. But I want to ask the head of the Storting Energy and Environment Committee whether he is satisfied with the so-called effort that the Workers' Party has put into this year's budgetary settlement. Because we have heard both the head of the Energy and Environment Committee and other representatives of the Workers' Party speak out loud and warmly about the need for reduced CO2 tax and a number of other measures to keep more jobs in this industry. In the budgetary agreement, it is only a more rapid reduction of the production charge that is set down. Is the representative, Mr Stoltenberg, satisfied with the efforts made by the Workers' Party, when they have placed considerable emphasis on action areas, i.e. an acceptance of increasing unemployment? Then I want to ask the representative, who has previously been the Minister of Finance and who is also a social economist, a question about Norwegian monetary policy. Many have claimed that there has been an actual change in the monetary policy regime, from a unilateral focus on the exchange rate to a fundamental focus on low inflation. Does the representative, Mr Stoltenberg, agree that there has been an actual change in the rhetoric and the power of action, both from the central bank and in and on its own, also from the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1462	Whether the center parts think it's cruel, or nice and warm, in the arms of the Right and Advance Party, I'm not going to have a sloppy opinion about. My impression is that there is a little variation between the different parties and the different representatives of the centre parties. My point was that that cooperation had led Norway in the wrong direction: cut down on important welfare benefits, cut down on areas where at least some of the centre parties agree with the Workers' Party that we need more effort, such as: in the local economy. Let me take monetary policy first, because now I have the opportunity to say something I've wanted to say for a very long time about the Progress Party, and that's the party that has the most confused view of Norwegian monetary policy. It's the only party that has programmed that we need to have a stable crown price. It is in their programme, adopted at the national meeting for the current ageing period. After the programme was adopted, they immediately started talking about the need for a floating course and inflation target. I believe that when you are so confused that you adopt one thing and do something completely different, then you should be very humble and very careful in any public debate on monetary policy. I believe that the way monetary policy is now being practised is in line with the regulation. It is a practice that has taken inward some of the experience we gained in the winter of 1997 and that is not contrary to the guidelines drawn up by the Stortinget. As far as I can see, the Finance Committee of the Storting has also reached that conclusion after they met the Minister of Finance and the Governor of the Central Bank. As far as the petroleum industry is concerned, and where last year the government was going to increase the CO2 tax, we have now, after the rounds we had, received a majority for a reduction in the production levy, for important issues within the labour market budget, which are targeted instruments against those who can become unemployed, and we have increased the renewal of the ferry. Here comes action, thanks to the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1473	The budgetary settlement reached between the Centre Parties and the Workers' Party is positive. But this could not possibly mean a breakthrough for the Workers' Party, as the representative Stoltenberg just said, nor any new political landscape, as the Labour Party's leader stated on 13 October – even before the negotiations were under way. Moving on to 0.4 pst. of the budget is hardly creating any new political landscape or turning the direction of Norwegian policy. I remember that the center parties in the spring of 1997 moved in over 1 pst. without calling it a historical or a new political landscape. It is also not relevant to talk about other government options. I need to remind the representative of Stoltenberg that the Christian People's Party has a national meeting decision to work for the widest possible cooperation, which includes both the Center Party and the Right. It refused to do so, so we got a central administration after the Workers' Party found it irresponsible to continue. I would first like to ask the representative Stoltenberg whether he agrees that the Labour Party lacked 1.9 pst. digestion at the roll-out election in order to be able to manage the country properly. During the two years that have passed, we have heard many arguments from the Workers' Party against the cash support. These arguments have been important. It has been demonstrated that the cash support has led to problems with the yard support, which in turn has led to unemployment. In addition, cash support leads to more domestic violence, allegedly because people will then be more at home. Not enough; it was also claimed by the representative Hegna that the cash support leads to power balance problems because mothers who choose to be at home are going to turn on a lot of switches. All of this was pointed out long before a single crown was paid in cash support. The list could have been done much longer. It is therefore commendable that the Workers' Party has now turned its back on the cash support, despite the deterioration in the yard support, etc. Wouldn't it have been a little better to pick up the winning before the election?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1487	First, the question of whether this budgetary agreement is a breakthrough and of great importance, or whether there are only minor changes. Well, our point is that now things go in the right direction. Instead of cutting school vacation plans, if we add, instead of having record low kindergarten expansion, we get increased kindergarten expansion, and instead of running tight budgets in relation to the municipalities, we get additions to the municipalities. Here we think it's a change of direction, but we're talking about small steps in the right direction. We want to go further, and we want to go with the center. That's what we've been trying to express here today. The representative Rise indicated that much more was being moved when the center parts were in opposition. Yes, that's possible – if you're raining percent. Now a lot of the budget is all in lock, so it's a little bit difficult with the percentage, but I would be a little bit careful with boasting of it. My opinion of the centre parties then was that it was fundamentally irresponsible. Budgets were provided from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left, where one was not close to thinking about the budgetary balance. That year there was really a need to slow down and stop, all the central parties put out budgets that had a deterioration in what is called the interest rate and activity adjusted indicator, at NOK 8 - 9 billion. When we asked them about the invasion, they just looked at us empty and said that there are 70 – 80 billion dollars in the oil fund. The big thing that has happened in recent years is that we have got a responsible opposition, which goes into negotiations with exactly the same budgetary balance, no weakening. That's what makes us responsible budgets, unlike the irresponsible one used to run with, where you only asked for 10 billion kroner blank and didn't care about interest and price increases. It's one of the few gains by getting a center government; they've understood the meaning of accountability. And I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1496	First, let me just dement the information that the representative Rise came with, for the sake of the history book: the right was not invited to the debates at the Adult Box. If we were to confuse someone who was sitting there, it would get to others. And we didn't say no, they're sitting on the first bench here now. [[Laughter]] The representative of Stoltenberg's posts was interesting, because it was the most open invitation to cooperation – not with SV, but with the centre, and I guess you mean the largest party in the center, the Christian People's Party – and the most obvious proposal that has been given in a long time. That's exactly why it might be interesting to ask what you're free on the basis of. Is that an acceptance of the cash support? What the party leader is called a backward-looking and antiquarian system that is suitable for paying women home to the kitchen bench, is that what is now the basis? Is it accepted beyond this accumulation period? That's my question. I am not waiting for a response that the majority has decided, but I am waiting for an answer to the question of what the Labour Party will put to elections in 2001. Secondly, Part Two, representatives of the Christian People's Party in particular, have said – and they have also said this in this debate – that on several occasions the budgetary conciliation has been well known, that with this, the stock discounts have been accepted, and the shipping tax is fixed. In other words, the shipowner's assessment system is accepted by the Workers' Party. I'm not talking about the changes that are mentioned in the text of the agreement, these are smaller issues, but about the system itself. Can I be confirmed or cancelled by the representative Stoltenberg that the stock discount for unlisted companies has now been accepted, and the shipping tax?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1508	The representative Foss is absolutely right that I didn't mention SV, and I should have done that, because we would like to cooperate with them too. We think there are many pleasant and sensible people there too. There's one disadvantage to SV, and that's that they're not big enough. We can sit and work with them for a long time and have fun, but we won't have a majority. The Labour Party is committed to having a majority, so we're looking for someone to cooperate with who can give it to us, and it can't – not at the moment, maybe after the next election, but it's a little daring of us to rely on it to be the only source of majority of the Workers' Party. The truth is that historically the Workers' Party has now, over quite many years, actually cooperated with the Centre, in the sense that the actual basis of the labor party governments we've had in the last ten years has been cooperation with the Center Parties in different ways. That's why it's not new that you want to get back to a dialogue and a collaboration with the center, which can provide a basis for better solutions than you can find at the intersection between the right and the center. With regard to cash support, we have said that we are still opposed to this scheme, but we believe that it cannot stand in the way of a budgetary settlement and agreement on a budget where we achieve important things in other areas. It is clearly expressed by all of us on several occasions, and I believe that it must be possible to have that attitude, have the intention that cash support should not stand in the way of any conciliation and cooperation in other areas, including on budgets, but that one can still disagree with or oppose a scheme that we still believe is crazy. With regard to the other tax proposals, it is unlikely that a settlement will mean giving guarantees and promises for the future. I still don't think it's very logical or especially fair to get tax deductions to save on shares or have a stock discount, but right will remove the deduction to be a member of a trade union.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1517	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1520	Norway is becoming an incredibly rich nation, according to a recently published OECD report. It's writing VG today. The oil fund just grows and grows. Money is invested abroad, while efforts are being made to develop Norwegian business. And never has the tax level been higher than it is today. Norway experiences public poverty in the middle of wealth. It's something normal people don't understand. In these days, the local authorities are working on sewing together the budgets. In several municipalities, tens of millions are missing to get the budgets into port. A good part of the reasons for this is the imposition they get from us in this hall and from different other state institutions. What happens when they sew the budgets together? They have to cut where there is an opportunity to cut, and it goes a lot beyond the weak. Older and sick people get harmed — and the schools. Schools lack equipment; they lack textbooks. We have experienced in the last few days that teachers complain about poor working conditions, and they complain about poor pay. And once again, the common people who have the bill are because we're not willing to give enough money to meet the obligations we impose on the municipalities. Just to mention that, it's the state that negotiates the teacher's wages, but it's the municipalities that have to pay. That's kind of a weird situation. On several occasions from the Coastal Party, we have called for investment in infrastructure in mainland Norway, such as better ports, better roads and ferry-free connections, which can meet the needs of business transport. There are investments that I think the state should prioritise more than saluting wealth abroad. That's a little bit of a point. We're going to be the country that's the best in the EEA class. What if we got EEA-approved roads? There was a guy who called me last fall. He drove on a road that was very smooth. He went out of the car an errand, and he slipped straight out of the way, so smooth it was. The car that was on the road was approved by the EEA, but the road he was driving was simply not to drive on. It's a cross of thought. We also experience in the EEA context – I see the Minister for Fisheries sitting in the hall – that coastal fishing is in the process of being closed down, also because of the EEA Directive and the requirements of ESA. We're probably in danger of having to build roofs over the fish shelves in Lofoten, if ESA gets it the way they want it. It's strange to think that a production that is a thousand years old might have to be discontinued. But it is likely to veto such proposals. In the summer the basic support The Royal Ship during a visit to Herey on Helgeland. This dramatic event shows that the maps we use on the coast are too old. Some maps are up to 200 years old. There's a big boost to get this right. At the speed that this work now has, it will not be in my time to experience getting good enough maps. The navigation systems we use are accurate, but the maps are inaccurate. I've taken this up before. Furthermore, in the fisheries industry, estimates made by researchers vary greatly from one year to the next, especially for key stocks, such as hysteria, cod and sein. This is unsustainable; the appropriations for marine research need to be increased. But that is not enough; it is equally important that there is an evaluation of how this research is conducted. Is it done what can be done to get a safe estimate? In this context, I will refer to what has been done to produce secure data for whales, and in that respect also for seals. There's been a real effort. But I have the impression that when it comes to fishing on the key stocks, an extraordinary effort is needed. Agreement was reached between the Government Parties and the Workers' Party on the budget of the year. When a broad agreement can be reached on the budget, there is evidence that there is not really much distance between these two blocks. In the Coastal Party, we have joined this budgetary agreement, and it has its origins in the opportunity that opens up when a start-up grant to a fund of 8 million is provided in this budget. kr to search for the deceased – a matter that has been on the agenda of this house for ten years and that was reactivated with the Document No. The 8-proposal, which I immediately promoted, I came to the Stortinget. I am happy to note on behalf of the coastal people that this matter has now been resolved, and I think it is a pleasure to be able to participate in it. Furthermore, clear signals have been given that coastal welfare services will improve conditions. There will be increased funding for the operation of welfare stations, which has been a wish both from the Norwegian Fisheries Team and from fishermen for many, many years. We are also pleased that in this budget there has been more money for port development and fleet renewal, and that the concession grant is continued. We also expect that it will again be possible to set aside money in good time for an investment fund for each fisherman or company. We had a system there before, but it was removed. This new arrangement is now under investigation, and we are excited about what comes out in the budget that will be presented next year. Although I have joined this draft budget, I am far from agreeing in all, but the overall assessment made me join in. There's one point I want to draw attention to, one of the verbal proposals that I've promoted. It goes on the product fee that has been proposed increased from 3.2 pst. to 3.4 pst. It is estimated at a first-hand value of 8.6 billion kroner. Then it was supposed to be low cod quotas. Now those negotiations are concluded in Russia, and without taking too seriously, it is very likely that the first-hand value will be around 10 billion kroner. So this would mean a reduction in the product charge rather than an increase. I am aware that it is too late to do anything about this budget, because once the Committee on Budgets has presented it, it is well over. But at least I will draw attention to the proposal, and I have the support of the Right and the Advance Party to review it in the revised budget and to provide an account. Because when the financial statements in the last four years showed that the plan is 32 million. kr in profit, I do not understand that it should not be included in the assessment. It should not be the case that a scheme to be neutral in provinces would once again become a fiscal tax on the operators in the industry. I address the suggestions that I have made alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1552	The representative of Bastisen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1557	First of all, it must be assumed that a member of the financial committee knows what he has been involved in. Once you have declared that you are behind the budget that has been put forward, and then you stand on the platform and describe a situation that goes beyond the weakest groups in society, that fishing is about to be closed down along the coast, and then you answer through the budget, as the Bastisen is doing, by increasing the taxes on small businesses – by tightening up the sharing model, by halving the depreciation rate for commercial buildings and by increasing the taxes on real estate – it is not to be believed. Nor is it to believe that a representative who claims to represent the districts and coasts is helping to hit the districts by increasing the diesel tax by 20 øre per øre. liters. It's just the people living in the districts who are being hit. It's amazing that the Bastisen is involved in increasing the electricity charge by 40 p.m., which is just hitting the coldest strokes, where he comes from. With such policies, it's almost to hope that it gets colder at the next nomination and elections. Let me also be allowed to add: When the Bastisen claims to support this budget because of the fund that will go to search for the dead at sea, I have to say that there is a total accumulation behind it. But it is worrying that the Bastisen, who comes from the coast, and from the fishing grounds, are involved in reducing the appropriations for the Rescue Company. It must mean, according to the Bastisen, that it's not so careful if you don't have a good readiness to rescue the fishermen, only you have a fund, so you can look for them. It should be both- and, and I think it is irresponsible to go in to reduce the allocation to the Rescue Company, as the Bastisen and the Coastal Party do now. And my question to Bastisen is, how can you defend such an action? And then: how can he defend putting on the coasts and coastal communities such extra expenditure as his budget does?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1568	It shall be set out in the Rules of Procedure at the beginning of the morning. The President will propose that the meeting continue until the change of line is over. - It's passed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1571	When Svein Ludvigsen attacks me and gives me the primary responsibility for the design of this budget, he's probably assigning me more pondus than I really have. Once I've joined the budget deal, it's to get an impact on concrete issues. In this respect, I believe that with my hands on my heart I have said that I have had more impact on this budget than the representative Ludvigsen has done. In the case of the rescue company, I must say that the last word was not said in that case either. And if Ludvigsen tries to present me as the worst enemy of the Rescue Company, I think he's shooting far beyond the goal. As I said in my main post, I am far from agreeing on everything in this budget. I would have liked to have come along and reduced both the petrol price and the diesel price. But politics is now once the art of the possible, and I'm trying for the best ability to participate in it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1582	I was uncertain whether I should take the floor for a manifest misunderstanding or for a reply, for it is a manifest misunderstanding if Steinar Bastesen believes that I should have had a say in this budget. That's exactly what's the difference between Bastisen and me. He supports this draft budget. I don't. I insist that an aggregate increase is in favour of this fund for the search for the dead at sea, but the Bastisen, as opposed to the Right, is in favour of financing it by taking away the preparedness through the Rescue Company. I think that is extremely worrying. I note that the Bastisen, on the one hand, says that he is not satisfied with the budget, but he is at least satisfied that he is applying increased expenditure on transport to the districts and the coast, he is pleased that he is increasing the cost of firing, both for business and for households, and he is very pleased that small businesses along the coast are getting even worse conditions, while he says that before these tax increases are more fishing – most of which I think he said – along the coast in the process of bowing down. It doesn't get any easier knowing that the quotas are being cut and the entire operating base for the fishing industry is getting worse. No, what the Bastisen should do was vote against the budget. Then we would be on the same line. But he misunderstands when he thinks I'm behind this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1591	I think it's going a little over the line when the representative Ludvigsen says we're taking money from the Rescue Company to cover the $8 million. kr. Instead, I said in my main post that the product fee scheme has gone with 8 million. kr in profit for the last four years. There is therefore only one year's surplus in the product tax system, which the fishermen themselves have paid, that we use. We have enough money from the surplus in the product fee scheme to cover the entire fund, which was actually worth 30 million. kr. In the case of fish farms, the representative Ludvigsen has the opportunity to support my Document No. 8 proposals aimed at providing the necessary resources for upgrading fishing farms through the SND system. I hope Ludvigsen will go in for it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25.ana.ud1047e1599	No more words have been asked for. The morning meeting is thus over. New meeting will be scheduled at 2.30 p.m. 6:00 p.m.
