ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower.ana.ud1059e40	The President will make suggestions that a seat president of Odelstinget's meeting is elected today – and sees it as agreed. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower.ana.ud1059e45	I will allow myself to propose Anne Enger Lahnstein.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower.ana.ud1059e50	Anne Enger Lahnstein is the vice president. – Other suggestions are not included, and Anne Enger Lahnstein is elected by consensus as President of the sitting of the current sitting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower.ana.ud1059e67	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Representative Steinar Bastisen 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - This is confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower.ana.ud1059e78	There is an indication of various changes in the law on social security and in some other laws, together with more than 20 changes. The Committee's position is unanimous in most areas, and only three of the more than 20 proposals have expressed divergent views. To a large extent, the proposals submitted provide clarification of the law in force so that the legal text and practice become consistent, and these are clarifications in the legislative text where the legal text may have been more or less open to misunderstandings. Those amendments are therefore intended to prevent such misunderstandings. As mentioned above, there are only three legislative proposals that have led to some disagreement within the Committee. One is the question of an employer’s contribution pension as income for the income test of a dependant supplement. The majority here share the Ministry's view that, even after the current law, pensions are in the same position as other pensions. But since the issue has arisen, and in order that there should be no doubt about this understanding, the majority believe that it should be clarified in the legislative text, as proposed by the Government. The second point on which there is disagreement in the Committee is the proposal to notify the social security office of cohabitation to cohabitants who receive pensions or transitional benefits from social security. The purpose of such clarification is to create one's rules in the public interest for all cohabitants. Now it is that rules related to cohabitation in general are sometimes unwieldy, such as: is expressed in the position of the Samboercommittee, which is now being consulted. The majority assume that one will also have the necessary clarifications and border crossings in different contexts when dealing with this setting. However, the majority do not consider it appropriate to postpone disclosures that are already apparent and therefore support the Government’s proposal. The last point of disagreement relates to the question of income testing of retirement pensions in respect of income abroad. Under the second paragraph of Section 19-6 of the National Social Security Act, an old-age pension between 67 and 70 years of age is to be reduced on the basis of income that is a pensioner in the social security system. Questions and doubts have been raised as to whether the provision allows for the inclusion of labour income abroad in the income base of this income test. When the Government proposes that this be clarified in the legal text, the majority subscribes to this and indicates that it is both current practice and in accordance with the intention of the law. As I said, there is a large number of amendments, but they are of such a nature that the majority of the Committee has agreed to all the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower.ana.ud1059e95	The Progress Party strongly supports the legislative and legislative changes made in the present position, but the Progress Party will vote against some proposals in the vote for fundamental reasons. In the case of §3-26 of the Swedish Social Security Act, the contribution pension from the employer, which is now proposed to be included in the income base for the income testing of dependants' allowances, the Progress Party cannot support this point. In this context, I would like to point out that the Progress Party in Document No. 8:16 for 1991-92 proposed that pension insurance, for example, be excluded from the calculation of the income base for the income test of the dependant supplement. It is still the opinion of the Progress Party that the contribution pension from the employer corresponds to pension insurance, as mentioned in Document No. 8:16. Against this background, the Progress Party will not support the proposal that a grant pension be included in the income base for income testing of the dependant supplement. In the case of § 25-4, the obligation to provide information to cohabiters who have lived together for 12 of the last 18 months cannot support the proposal in the proposition either. The party to the progress is of the opinion that it is not appropriate to impose information obligations on co-residents in this sense on the social security system. Cohabitants, according to the concept mentioned in the proposition, may contain many types of conditions that are not regulated by the social security laws. Two individual people who have chosen to share housekeeping for different reasons cannot be considered as cohabitants in the sense of the law, and how individuals choose to live, as the Progress Party sees it, is society unrelated. The Progress Party cannot accept the definition of cohabitants used in the Law on Population Security, where it states: ‘Two persons living in the same house are considered as married couples even though they live in each of their own parts of the house.’ In the opinion of the Progress Party, such a commoner definition could also include siblings, friends who share a home for economic reasons, students who choose to live together during the study period, and a number of other matters that are not governed by the law of popular security and are thus the social security system unsolicited. However, the Progress Party, together with the Socialist Left, has a proposal in the vote, which reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to promote a comprehensive proposal for the assessment of cohabitants and consensual definitions, so as to avoid different consensual definitions in different areas of Norwegian law and to have unintended consequences.’ In the case of income testing of retirement pension by income abroad, § 19-6, the Progress Party cannot support the suspension and will vote against it. The Progress Party has noted that legislative changes are being made to establish current practices and to avoid misunderstandings in the future. The second paragraph of Section 19-6 of the current National Social Security Act states that an old-age pension between 67 and 70 years of age is to be reduced on the basis of income that is a pensioner in the social security system. The Progress Party considers that these principles must be maintained and that income earned abroad, which is not a pensioner, should also not be included in the income base.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower.ana.ud1059e118	The President would like to ask if Mr Nesvik would like to raise the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower.ana.ud1059e121	Yes, I am addressing the proposal of the Progress Party and the Socialist Left.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower.ana.ud1059e126	Then the representative Harald T. Nesvik has drawn up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower.ana.ud1059e129	The Christian People's Party considers it positive that the Government is making proposals for changes in popular security and in some other laws, so that the laws are simplified and clearer. A pilot scheme with a pre-payment of abstinences for healthcare is a good opportunity to simplify the treatment of the social security system. For persons who know that they will reach the self-employed person who triggers a free card, the scheme will have practical consequences. They don't want to make sure that the proportion of e.g. medical assistance, laboratory tests, X-rays, essential medicinal products or special medical devices are included in the receipt card. In addition, they do not want to hold any loose receipts or go to the social security office to obtain a free card once the self-interest has been reached. The pilot scheme will be tested in three-four municipalities including a city municipality. The Christian People's Party agrees that members of the relevant municipality must choose whether to participate in the trial scheme on a voluntary basis or to continue today's practice. Many relatives are struggling with heavy care for nursing family members. From 1 January 1992, there are three pension points per year. years to these. As a result, more caregivers will have better pension entitlements in the future. The condition that care must have been carried out for at least half of the calendar year seems unreasonable if long-term care is interrupted because of transfer to an institution or death. Parents who have taken care of their spouse or parents will have a short period of time left by their working years, and it may be difficult to get a job right after the end of the care relationship. Christian People's Party supports the Department's proposal to exempt from the requirement of six months' care per year. calendar year at the end of long-term care. Point 4 deals with self-employed persons who have received reduced income due to illness for a period prior to the date of disability and who will currently have a lower residual income than if they had not been sick before the date of disability. It is positive that the Ministry suggests that if the disease has gradually reduced its income capacity over several years, it is based on average income for the last three calendar years before the onset of the disease. An equivalent rule applies to all workers. The time at which the disease occurred is weighted more than the lead-time in determining the level of income. The proposal clarifies that an employer's contribution pension is to be regarded as income and is included in the basis for the income test of the dependant supplement. The Christian People's Party believes that the grant pension is in the same position as other pensions and disagrees with the Progress Party that equates the contribution pension from the employer with the pension insurance, which should be excluded from the calculation of the income base for the income test of the dependant supplement. The consideration by the Committee of point 13 of the proposal on information obligations for cohabitants who have lived together for 12 out of the last 18 months shows the need for a conceptual clarification on the definition of cohabitants. I am not going to repeat all the proposals for amendment, as the rapporteur has gone through them in a good way and has shown a great deal of agreement in the committee. Doubts have been raised as to whether labour income abroad should also be included in the income base for the income test on retirement between 67 and 70 years of age. Under the second paragraph of Section 19-6 of the National Social Security Act, an old-age pension between 67 and 70 years of age is to be reduced on the basis of income that is a pensioner in the social security system. It is positive that older people use their experience and competence in some work alongside retirement. However, it would be wrong if the elderly were to reduce the pension by 40 pst. of the part of such income exceeding 1 G if the work has been carried out in Norway. Does the pensioner do the same work, for example: in Sweden, there will be no reduction in the age pension. The Christian People's Party supports the clarification of popular fear that equates these examples and that has been current practice for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower.ana.ud1059e150	With a few exceptions, the Committee is broadly united on all the legislative proposals. One exception is the second sentence of Section 25-4 of the first paragraph, which we want to vote against. The score is: «Also residents who have lived together for 12 of the last 18 months are obliged to notify the social security office of the cohabitation when they receive a pension or transitional benefit from social security, or an agreed pension as referred to in Sections 3 to 19.» The reason why SV wants to go against it is that income and living conditions surveys have shown that many lone dependants have low incomes in addition to being alone for care and that they have put forth effort in the economy. In particular, there are single dependants who have transitional benefits but not labour income. SV would point out that a system of information obligations for cohabitants who have lived together for 12 out of the last 18 months could affect single dependants in the middle of a training course that they will not be able to complete without benefits. Education assistance is intended to help self-help, and will help to improve the education of single caregivers and their economic situation. SV believes that the change proposed here will have unintended consequences that affect economic weakness and further weaken them. Before work has been done on government and enlargement to take a holistic view of the consensual definitions and legislation, as a consequence of the decision of the Samboerverkommission, which was delivered in 1999, SV does not want to support the amendment of §25-4. Like the Progress Party, we also want to get a definition of the concept of cohabitants, as the proposal shows.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower.ana.ud1059e164	As indicated by the name of the proposition, the proposition contains legislative proposals aimed at simplifying and clarifying the law. The changes don't have any particular economic consequences, but many doubts are clarified by these legislative proposals, and I just want to comment on a few points. Pre-payment attempts at health services are a positive measure that can simplify the management of the social security system. The scheme is voluntary, and people in the municipalities concerned can choose whether or not to enter the test scheme. Such tests will provide useful experience and identify needs and effects both for social security offices, users and treatment providers. And I'm pleased that the committee agrees with the experiment. When there are pension points for unearned care, there is now a better and fairer system by exempting from the requirement of six months of care per year. calendar year at the end of long-term care. The proposal is a follow-up to one page of the legislation previously taken up by the Danish Prime Minister Annelise Högh. I am pleased that family members will now receive pension credits even for the last time they care for their closest. Rehabilitation may be difficult when long-term care is interrupted when an institution or death occurs. The Government in the Smoothing Message will follow up with additional suggestions to improve the situation of individuals within this group. Self-employed persons who have had reduced income due to disease before the time of disability shall be taken into account before the date of disability. This is reasonable. If the disease has gradually reduced income levels over several years, the proposal assumes average income for the last three calendar years before the disease occurred. The government will follow up the setting in NOW 1999: 25 Sambos and the community, which is currently listening. When it comes to social security rights, it is important that a few clear, simple rules have no major control problems. We want to come back to the Stortinget with closer definitions in the people's fear of the encroachment of sambuars, as the plurality asks for. The proposed changes to the social security laws include: the suspension of the scheme whereby the right to benefits cannot seek the actual basis for its decisions. I would also like to introduce gender-neutral change, and registers with pleasure that the Committee is satisfied that the President of the Social Security Court is hereafter the head of the Social Security Court. The proposal also involves a simplification and update that I thought was a good idea to implement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower.ana.ud1059e179	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower.ana.ud1059e183	The Minister of Social Affairs was at the end of his speech, as I understood her, in that one would come back to what has to do with the consensual definition. Then it could be exciting to hear about the Christian People's Party and the government parties will be in favour of the proposal that the Advance Party and SV have promoted in the vote. Because it is a problem that we have adopted a number of different laws, including: Now in ours, which gives the cohabitants a number of rights, and then within the law we have several different definitions of cohabitants. I expect that the definition underlying this case will not apply, among other things. in the field of health, as regards treatment, the rights of cohabitants in relation to poisons and that part. So I just want to ask the Minister of Social Affairs to confirm that there is going to be such a case, and ask whether the Minister of Social Affairs will also make sure that this proposal from the Progress Party and the SV now has a majority. Because as I understood the Minister of Social Affairs, what she said at the end of her speech was what she said.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower.ana.ud1059e188	Over time, the expression coexistence has changed. That's what makes today different interpretations and different follow-up to different schemes. It is also the case that there has been a private public selection in work, which has looked at both the definitions and the current systems and legislation that have proposed changes. If there is nothing more in this proposal than the fact that what is now important is to make a whole range of definitions and descriptions in the various legislations that mean that it is the same definition, and that there will be no unintended effects, then there is a broad consensus between those behind the minority proposal, those behind the multiple proposal, and the Government has announced in advance. I want to come back with concrete suggestions in my area, just as other government councils will deliver their input to a collection of management from the government's side of these questions and the follow-up to the Sambuar selection's setting. But let me say that the interpretation that the Progress Party today has of what has been proposed by the Government, I disagree. It is unnecessary to interpret the Government's proposal today as the Progress Party does in its comment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower.ana.ud1059e193	No longer have asked for a line No more have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 54]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower.ana.ud1059e209	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for a sequence change of up to three sequences with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each party group and after contributions from members of the Government. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower.ana.ud1059e220	This is a matter which is to some extent a follow-up to a decision taken in Stortinget on 29 February 1996, where the Stortinget asked the Government to provide a big message on a lifelong learning reform. The proposal is based on a NOU statement, 1997:25 New competence. It is a major and important reform that we are today invited to make decisions on. I am therefore happy to say that there is an overall committee that is largely behind the setting. The Committee agrees to legislate on the right to leave for education, both full and partial leave. We are also certain that this law does not have to be an obstacle so that existing schemes negotiated by the social partners can no longer be followed up. I will come back to it later. There are very few things the committee disagrees on. What's interesting is that all the hearing agencies have largely given positive feedback when it comes to this bill. They see the need for a statutory right to leave for education. What is also important is that this bill states that the main objective is to increase the competence of the business community, by allowing for further training. It is clear that there are certain regulations that need to be introduced here in order to regulate this right of leave, so that it does not hinder the day-to-day operation of enterprises and the usual human resources policies. What's also important is that it doesn't have to be so that it necessarily goes beyond the smallest businesses. A joint committee believes that the competence requirement should lie there, but we also see the need for some employees to complete basic and further training that they may not have had access to before. Differences are more pronounced on apprenticeship schemes and temporary ones. Nevertheless, it is important to point out that the Committee, as well as the Department, believes that workers must have the opportunity to take more training leave during their careers. The Committee also agrees with the Ministry that the general rule should be that the employee should not be entitled to a new training permit until at least one year has elapsed since the previous leave was completed and twice as long as the previous leave lasted. The Committee nevertheless believes that training leave for shorter-term courses must be exempted from the general rule, so that this does not prevent already negotiated conditions in the labour market. For this reason, we point out that for most basic vocational groups from universities, scientific colleges and/or colleges, the vocational training course is of a continuing nature rather soon after basic education and the beginning of working life. For some of these groups, it is also relevant to start a formalized specialisation through a combination of manuals in work and many courses of shorter length. You have to assume that a relatively large number will change the service location in order to get the counting service for the specialization. The Committee emphasises that the introduction of a statutory right of leave, based on the requirement that the worker be employed for at least three years and with the employer for the last two years, must not hinder the maintenance and further development of the pattern of continuing training practised for various occupational groups. There is some disunity in the committee when it comes to this very thing with the number of years you should have been out in working life before you can take out full leave. But there's probably some cosmetics in that very inconsistency. Nevertheless, the Committee considers that leave cannot be required if this prevents the defence operation and planning of the operation. The employer must notify the employee in writing within a certain period of time. It is important to point out that leave should be used for continuing training and that it should be within an organised framework. It is also important to take into account that training beyond continuing education and basic education must be professionally related and cover all types of labour market-related continuing training. I still want to go further on behalf of the Progress Party. We think leave should only be given to education that provides documented competence. In addition to weakening the requirement for documented competences, the establishment of documentation should be a priority of the social partners. It is also worth noting that the Department initially introduced a bill that did not allow part-time leave. The committee disagrees with the ministry in it, and there is a joint committee that stresses that it is the combination of work and education that will be the option for most people, based on economics and family life. It'll be the best and maybe the only way that will make it possible. The Committee therefore argues that one of the main challenges underlying the new skills reform is that the provision of education should focus more on the possibility of combining work and education. Many mature people will, in the future, want to take training alongside work, and the law of the right to educational leave does not have to prevent such a possible way of going. The Committee therefore believes that there is as much need for a statutory right to partial leave as a statutory right to full leave. This will also be in line with the labour market and its needs. The development of the community of competences will be best served by the combination of adult and continuing education and training with work. The Committee points out that, for a number of professional groups, continuing training and specialisation are based on the combination of work and part-time study, where part-time studies are either regular through one or more semesters or through frequent and shorter courses or training courses. It is also important that the Committee addresses the issue of workers who are not covered by the labour law and asks the Government to follow it up. There is some disagreement within the committee. It goes on with temporary addition. The majority believe that the reform and the right of leave should also apply to the temporary addendum, while the minority, the Right and the Progress Party, believe that we should wait to extend this law to temporary addendum until we have experience with it. This is also in line with the hearing authorities KS and NHO. Otherwise, one is concerned with this issue of dispute – that one can add them to the ordinary legal system. We from the Right and the Progress Party believe that this is such an important and major reform that one wants to solve this in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower.ana.ud1059e256	The President sees it as Lodve Solholm took up the proposal No. 1 - 4.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower.ana.ud1059e259	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower.ana.ud1059e266	At that time, the representative, Mr Solholm, has drawn up proposals No. 1 – 4 on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower.ana.ud1059e271	It is in many ways important to stress what the rapporteur was about, namely the broad agreement in principle on the phase-in of this reform. However, there are some aspects of the disagreement, and let me ask the representative, Solholm, about the relationship with the temporary staff. The working party regards the temporary staff as a non-negligible part of the workforce. It may also be the case in the future that they will constitute a certain part, and then, in our opinion, it would be unfortunate to keep such a significant group of workers away from the rights imposed by the law. Let me refer to the work done within the EU system, where the social partners in the EU have come up with arrangements that are more equalising the two groups of employees – i.e. equalising temporary staff with permanent staff – and that this is expected to be part of the EEA Agreement over time. My question to the representative Solholm is related to the extent to which Norway will be a driver and will be in the forefront of the type of problem raised here, or whether we will come back later and be commended for the provisions adopted by the EU system, which we are subject to by the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower.ana.ud1059e280	When this is the case with temporary additions, we have stressed that this is a rather large and profound reform. We have gone a long way in Norway when, today, we are most likely – and I don't think I take my mouth too full if I say so – to give workers the right to both full and partial leave. But what makes us want to limit this to being a permanent addition in the first place is that this is such a big reform that we want to try it out before we can possibly expand it. It is possible that we are forced to extend it – the representative of Eriksen mentions certain EEA regulations. The hold is that it can be that you get a shift for the shifter, and that this also makes the whole setup difficult. Moreover, I would like to point out that very many of those temporarily added today have the right to be permanently added to businesses when they have been there for two years – perhaps especially to public enterprises. But it is clear that I see the point of the representative, Eriksen, that through the negotiations that are taking place within the EEA, we may be required to implement something that we in the Progress Party do not want to implement already now. But we have to take that chance – we dare in the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower.ana.ud1059e287	What is most pleasing about the setting that Odelstinget is dealing with today is the broad consensus that exists. The party of progress and the rapporteur of the case have, as the case was before in Stortinget and Odelstinget, had much greater objections than what is currently possible. It almost seems that you cannot agree all the way, and that you are promoting a couple of suggestions that, in my opinion, are a pure curiosity, and that do not address the most important thing either. But it is a broad majority in the Storting, and it is the most joyous. It is not the Progress Party that has supported this reform, on the contrary they have fought against it. But now they've seen that this is a reform with a huge potential, and I'm glad that Lodve Solholm has now seen it. My question to the case rapporteur is a little outside of today's setting. It is clear that there is an enormous potential in a statutory individual right to continuing education. This means a huge promise of knowledge for the nation, but at the same time there is a danger that if we do not have proper funding in place, the right we give today can become a right for the strongest groups of workers and not for all groups of workers, which are important for the reform. Now it's not like the Storting is going to finance the reform. Of course, the size should be involved in financing the part that naturally falls on Stortinget both as an employer and otherwise in order to get the system going. My question to the President-in-Office is whether he has considered how to ensure that the social partners also follow up the good decisions taken by the Stortinget to ensure that the right is effective. There is therefore a danger that the rights are there, but cannot be used by any company other than large companies, and that all the small enterprises, where the representative Solholm has taken it because he fears that this will undermine the company's existence, cannot participate in the reform for financial reasons. And that is a significant problem.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower.ana.ud1059e298	The replicator himself said that the question might have been a little bit side by side with what is the specific matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower.ana.ud1059e301	It's in the heart of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower.ana.ud1059e309	Lodve Solholm will have to assess for himself how he will respond.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower.ana.ud1059e312	First I get to bend for the little rose I got from SV in this case. I'm happy for all the praise I can get. Obviously, I know that we're fighting against parts of this when this was up in the Storting in 1996-97, but unlike some other party, we accept the reality when it's once there, and then we also have an interest in being there. It is clear that the representative, Mr Djupedal, is involved in something significant. If this reform is to have the desired effect, seen from both sides of this room, from the workers' side and from the industry's side, that we should increase the competence of our society, increase the competence of the workforce, increase the competence of the industry and increase the competence of our businesses, require that initiative, and it requires a lot of everyone to participate. In response to the question from the representative, Djupedal, I would say that I believe that the first person to address this is the participants in the working life, i.e. the employers' and employees' organisations. They will have to make suggestions on the way in which this might be financed. I think this might be easier to get to now when Odelstinget will actually make a unanimous decision today that the court will also apply to part-time leave. Then it will be a little easier to finance it and a little easier to get an employer to say yes to leave even if it is for a key person and one sees that there is a problem with the day-to-day responsibility for the company. But I think it's going to work. Then we'll see when the employee and employer organisations come up with their own, what the Storting does in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower.ana.ud1059e323	If I did not hear completely wrong, the representative of Solholm said in his statement that we agreed that the reform should apply to everyone, and that this is the starting point for the reform. It's important. I would like to hear a more detailed reason why Solholm believes that temporary workers should be exempted as a principle and not according to the rules in paragraph 2, where it is said that this is an actual situation in an actual enterprise where the openings are now quite large, if they are not practicable, to be subject to such leave, or why one wants it to be possible to exempt businesses in the form of a regulation. I believe that giving such an opening as the majority and Solholm give to exempt some companies actually permanently suspends the entire scheme for some employees. If this is wrong, I would ask the President-in-Office to clarify what the majority believes to be exempt in the form of such a regulation, whether there is a temporary derogation in that case and whether it is established by the principle that the right to leave applies to all workers.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower.ana.ud1059e332	I mean that I responded quite well to it instead, as I explained why we would not now withdraw temporarily. Our reason is that we want to try the reform before we go to an extension. So until this is the first thing that should apply to everyone – of course it should. It is for this reason that the Department is asked to ensure that the employee groups who do not receive this right because they do not comply with the work environment laws are also given the same opportunities. However, in practical terms, there must be a legal possibility of granting exemptions to certain enterprises because it is not possible to continue the daily operation and planning if several key individuals are to be allowed to leave. Elles – to put it a little on the verge – actually puts down his own job if a picker on the right that the promises give initially. We have the confidence of the social partners that they will find sensible and healthy solutions to this when there are openings in the law, as they do with the regulations that apply to these activities that may need to be allowed to refuse in some circumstances. But I want to see the company owner and the company manager who doesn't want to increase their competence in their own business. It gives you more ignition, and it gives you more opportunities to develop your businesses and your workplaces, and in this way, your value creation. So I have faith that the parties will make this the best for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower.ana.ud1059e339	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower.ana.ud1059e342	Let me begin by saying that the Labour Party is satisfied with how the Council of State has dealt with this important reform of working life. The Education Permit Committee has made a significant effort to reconcile partly conflicting interests and has been successful in a exemplary way. The selection procedure is characterised by a high degree of consensus, which is also crucial for the success of this reform. The starting point is that, through rapid technological progress, we move into the knowledge society, and our competitiveness and the survival of business in the market depend on the level of knowledge or competence of employees and the ability to adapt. This is particularly true in small and medium-sized enterprises and in rural enterprises. Research shows that enterprises in the districts are significantly below the average in terms of the proportion of employees with higher education or competence. The main challenge in the fight for, for example: The pattern of residence will eventually also be the struggle for competence. When I first pointed out that the Council of State has properly dealt with this matter, which in a broad sense must be seen as a social reform, it has to do with the fact that the Government is largely continuing the consensus that the committee has been working towards. I also think, like the representative, Mr Djupedal, that it is gratifying that Mr Odelstinget and the President-in-Office are continuing this consensus. The reform itself ends with a right law, based on the Working Environment Act. It grants employees an individual right to education leave. The hearing opinions are mainly positive. What strikes me, however, is that those who are most in need of increasing the skills of their employees, and who depend most on a high level of competence, are also those who are most reluctant to legislate on the rights of employees. It makes me somewhat concerned. And I'm thinking in the first place of the public sector, where the Municipalities' Central Association, which is to represent Municipality-Norway, sees no need to equate the temporarily added and permanently added or need to combine leave with work. It's discouraging. At the same time, it underlines that the local government sector must start taking its responsibilities seriously. The law draws up a number of practical aspects, such as deadlines for the notification of leave, conditions for leave and return from leave, which should be manageable and contribute to the benefit of the parties. In addition to being a law on rights, the law is also a law on powers, which empowers the Ministry to exempt special establishments from the law by means of regulations. This is a mandate which has also been proposed by the Committee on Education and Training, and which the Party considers appropriate, without having specific examples of what activities are relevant in this context. But the home we think is appropriate to include in the legal text. The Committee disagrees with the Government in one area. This concerns the right to take partial leave and be at the same time in work. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have a somewhat different approach to this issue, but the Committee is united on the principle. The Labour Party believes that the workers’ knowledge or competence gap will come through a combination of work and organised education and will therefore facilitate this development. It is important to stress that the right to education leave is conditional on education beyond primary and secondary levels being professionally related and covering all types of labour-market-related continuing education. With regard to the right to training leave, the general rule, which was also the subject of the case-rapporteur, is that workers who have had training leave are not entitled to a new training leave until twice the duration of the previous leave and at least one year since the previous leave took place. However, the Committee is grouped by one exception: for workers who have had training leave for a course of less than one month, the requirement for one year’s residence before the next training leave does not apply. I assume that the Council of State and the Government will take a closer look at the practice of this rule of exception and, if necessary, adjust it through regulations if it would prove necessary over time. Finally, I want to focus on a relationship that the proposition does not deal with. The Education Permit Committee has discussed where the provision for training leave is to be based. As mentioned earlier, the government has found to incorporate the provision into the Working Environment Act. I agree, because it's probably the most appropriate location. The Working Environment Act covers any activity which employs workers. The law applies to all industries, public and private, and to all workers covered by the law, with certain exceptions. This means that there are people who are exempted from the Working Environment Act. It also implies that the right to training leave does not apply to all workers, which are the starting point. I would therefore challenge the Council of State and ask him to comment on that issue and, if necessary, to signal how and to what extent it would be possible to adopt provisions which go beyond those attached to the Law on Working Conditions, thus giving all workers the right to education leave.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower.ana.ud1059e368	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower.ana.ud1059e371	I am in an exceptionally good mood today, so I would also like to be allowed to pay tribute to the Workers' Party and Odd Eriksen, because after SV proposed the reform, it is SV, the Workers' Party and the trade movement that have pulled away so that today we are facing this great promise. So I'd like to give you some praise. And especially after Thorbjørn Jagland himself personally engaged in it, the reform was given the necessary promise to become a reality. That is why I would like to congratulate you on that, because it means that we are now facing a reform that is unique in the European context. Not only in the European context, I do not know a single country that has introduced the type of permit, individually based, that we in Norway are now in the process of implementing. Nevertheless, I will allow myself to make a question that is not of the most critical – because, as I said, I am in a very good mood today – but it is an important point where we have found to be interested, and where the Workers' Party does not follow us. It surprises me a little bit, especially because Odd Eriksen said in his post that he was unable to find examples of the type of business that might be exempted from the permit provisions. I find that a little strange. We have chosen to do this because you cannot justify the type of business that may not be covered by the law. And if you had very clear examples of companies that, through a permissive regulation that we're introducing here, had actually had significant problems, it's possible that together you should have looked at it. But as far as I understand, it's not a single concrete example of what kind of business it is. So now this rule of exception is going to be introduced into the law. We are not particularly pleased, but I would nevertheless ask: if it turns out that the derogation will be practised in a way that will give it greater scope than the representative of Eriksen and also of the Workers' Party, will the representative at a later stage be willing to discuss any intensification of that provision? Because I suppose, as Eriksen said in his main post, that this is meant to be a totally exceptional provision that can be applied in an imaginary situation that we do not have a proper overview of today. So my question is very specific: if it turns out that the provision is being abused or is getting greater than thought, will the representative Eriksen join in and review it again?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower.ana.ud1059e380	Who took hold of the reform itself, I'm not going to lie down and lead anyone in the discussion about, because like the representative of Djupedal, I'm in good spirits today. The question that the representative of Djupedal raises, I was at the heart of my introduction, as he also mentioned, where I said that I do not have examples of what kind of business could come under this provision today. But I think, like the suspension of the Education Permit Committee, where there is also agreement on such a derogation, that it was appropriate for the Workers' Party to comply with the Government's proposed powers legislation in this area. But at the same time, it is obvious that if this provision is abused in some form, the Workers' Party will reserve the right to come back and look at it. I have no indications that this home will be abused, but in the setting we clearly say that the right to make these exceptions should only be used in very special cases. And I believe that the Government and the Council of State will follow up this derogation in line with what the majority of the committee has said.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower.ana.ud1059e387	I'm also concerned with the question of opt-out, perhaps in a slightly wider perspective than just what's going on in the design of the paragraph. It is a little unusual to make an exception where there are no leads, such as this exception. From the Right and Advance Party we have, among other things, a list of what we consider to be the most difficult problem associated with this introduction of a right to leave, namely how small and medium-sized enterprises, but especially smaller enterprises, will be able to deal with this type of leave. This concerns enterprises in particular in District Norway, and the question of how the labour market is for those enterprises. There are a lot of companies that are afraid of this reform, which are afraid they won't be able to get qualified temporary workers during the leave period. That is why we have made a proposal for a verbalisation to the Government, which includes: must look at the situation that could arise for some small enterprises where all employees must be considered as key personnel, inter alia. given the fact that you might get into a situation where you can't get temporary workers, so that it's going to go out of business. I want to get the Labour Party's views on which situations you should actually be able to refuse. Will e.g. a situation in which temporary workers have problems because of the labour market, where there will be operational problems if the job is not filled, are there sufficient conditions to say that this leave must be postponed, and then for quite an indefinite period?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower.ana.ud1059e394	What makes me wonder about the Right is that, on the one hand, they claim to be particularly concerned with skills enhancement and education, but in this context, in the case of workers, it seems less concerned. It is clear from this line by the representative of Solberg. From my point of view, the exception we have set out in the law is to understand in that way that it should not cover the issues that Solberg's representative here focuses on. The challenges that Solberg's representative refers to here, I believe are addressed in paragraph 2 of Section 33 D, namely that the proper planning of operations and staff deposits by the employer should be taken into account when granting leave. Paragraph 2 in many ways provides for a suspension of the granting of leave, not a permanent exemption for the activity with regard to the granting of leave. That's why I say I don't per. the date has examples of establishments which may benefit from this derogation, but I consider it reasonable to give it the authority of the Government and the Ministry of the Interior to have opportunities if special cases apply. This should be an answer to the challenges pointed out by the representative of Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower.ana.ud1059e404	No more words have been asked for. The President will note that the time for tomorrow's meeting is immediately up. The President would therefore like to suggest that the meeting is now being cancelled and reviewed at 9 p.m. 18 – and see it as accepted.
