ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e40	Today, we have proposals for tightening the Securities Trading Act and amendments to the rules on self-trading for employees of financial institutions. This is a result of the fact that in a number of contexts it has been seen that some in the industry have taken care of themselves. Therefore, it has also been found necessary to tighten the law. The Financial Committee takes note that the Minister of Finance has not proposed a total ban on trade for those who work in investment firms and financial institutions, but some specific situational prohibitions. The majority of the Committee has agreed to this. I think that a tightening of the legislation makes sense, and that it is actually good for Oslo Børs as well. I saw for a while back, April 7, 1999, a headline in the Evening Post, where it says that Norway is on the inside top, and so on: ‘In Norwegian limited liability companies that sell parts of the business, the price rises significantly on the day before the sale is made public. - a clear indication of an opinion which is also international that the rumors in the Norwegian stock market are running close and early. ‘... This is what stock exchange director Kjell Frøndal says. There are parts of this finance minister and the ministry have gone into and tried to do some action in relation to it. I do not believe in itself that the proposals that are now on the table will mean getting rid of all the internal problems, but it is a step in the right direction, and it is also a strong signal to the market. In fact, some of the hearing opinions say, as far as I remember, that with these tightenings, a person can actually also experience increased confidence in Oslo Stock Exchange, and it will have a positive effect on the rates. The concrete situations in which it is then prohibited to trade are those in which a company has a large client order, a financial institution or an investment firm, or one wishes to buy or sell shares. Then the employees who have or should have knowledge of this are not allowed to be in the market before the next day. I think that's a sensible provision, and that also gives predictability. All parties, with the exception of the Advance Party, have joined. The Progress Party supposedly believes that there should be a clearing arrangement instead. That is, if you work in a financial institution that is going to buy a lot of shares in, for example. Norsk Hydro, it is okay that he trades in these shares on the same day as the company, only the manager has cleared it, and in the view of the manager, he does not conflict with the internal rules. The majority of the Committee has concluded that if the institution or company works in, trade in shares, or have a large client order, it is appropriate to take care that it does not become the goat that fits the oat sack, or, perhaps, a better picture, that you do not get a store in the store. I see that the Progress Party has written in a note that one should have such a clearing system, but there is no proposal. The Progress Party then does is to vote against the situational trade ban without proposing anything else. This means that the Progress Party thinks that the status quo is good, namely that according to the law you are not prevented from trading with shares even if you have a customer order or purchase and sale in progress. I could imagine getting an answer to that. I also note that in another comment, the Progress Party believes that the ban on trade does not go far enough in relation to what the Minister for Finance proposes and receives the support of the Committee, that it is those who know or ought to know the customer order that should be affected by it. The progress party says that everyone in the company should be hit by it. This means that the secretary or others who work in the department, but do not know or should not know about this, should also have a trade ban, a trade ban that the Progress Party does not want, so it requires a certain explanation why you believe it. So to the second situational trade ban, which has actually got the whole committee's agreement. This applies in the context of a company's ongoing analysis. If a company is to present a review of a listed company, employees who know the content of this analysis do not have the opportunity to trade in shares four weeks before the presentation of the analysis and must wait until the next day. I think that's a perfectly curative rule. Originally, the Council of State had proposed that anyone who knew that there was an analysis going on should have a trade ban. I think it might have been going a bit far, and it is also not entirely in line with the first ban on trade, where it was they who knew the content, who were hit by the tightening up. Such a provision has now been designed by the Committee, it is those who are aware of or ought to have had the content of the analysis that are affected by the ban on trade. I think that's a good order. Another point on which there has been some discussion relates to the type of company to be covered by the new situational trade ban. Here is the proposal of the Government of Financial Institutions and Investment Entities, while no employees have been included in the Petroleum Fund. Nor have employees been included in the Swedish Social Security Fund and some other public institutions. In fact, the Ministry has proposed that, in the form of a regulation, it should be allowed to determine such a ban on trade for them as well, but it should be returned on a later occasion. Since the Banking Act Commission has proposed that such a general ban on trade applicable to all in the private sector should also apply to those employed in public institutions engaged in that type of trade, the Committee has proposed that they should also be subject to the situational prohibition. And I see it so that the Minister of Finance can live by that provision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e75	The rapporteur could almost make it seem that the Progress Party here differs in the position of the majority of the Committee in most areas, and that is not the case. The Progress Party also agrees that there is a need for a significant tightening of this legislation and has largely also joined the main features of what has been put forward in the proposal. That being said, we've actually allowed ourselves to have some own opinions about parts of what's presented in the proposition. With regard to one of the points raised by the rapporteur, namely our desire to tighten up the legislation in relation to who is to be covered by these rules, i.e. which employees are to be covered, we believe that this is necessary, because we have seen that the Ministry's proposal is not clear enough in relation to it. There will also be some demarcation problems in relation to which employees would, periodically, occasionally or suddenly, come into contact with information that would be of such a nature that one could easily be tempted to do business on their own. It could be an office secretary who picks up the phone and suddenly gets access to some information, sees some papers. The delimitation will quickly be a problem, and we think there would be a need for both tightening up and clarifying it. Of course, it is also linked to the second proposal, which is not addressed in the form of proposals, but to the need we see in relation to introducing ex ante clearance. The reason for this is that it will be relatively difficult to check whether a trader has acted in good faith. We therefore believe that the way to solve it would be for anyone who was to trade on their own to make sure that the entity does not have a close deal in the same securities. And we believe that by assigning that responsibility to the company's chief executive, many of these problems will be solved, precisely because it will be in the company's management's interest in matters of such a sensitive nature that not even a good name and reputation get in trouble by employees running a significant amount of illegal self-trafficking. At least we believe that, but I note that it is not the point of view of the majority of the committee, and the design of such a proposal would be relatively extensive. So very briefly, in one of the areas proposed by the Ministry, there was a clash between this law and other law in relation to the representation of unit-holders on the board of fund companies. We are very pleased that the entire committee has joined in the need for a change, because it would seem quite pointless that, as a board member, one should only be able to subscribe to shares in funds and not at the same time have insight into the fund's activities. How, then, are you going to be able to do the job as a board member of a company? Here there were some issues that have crashed, and here at least the committee looks unanimous, and I perceive that the ministry has not had major objections to it either. I'll take up our suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e86	Siv Jensen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e89	Some of the background to the legal text we are dealing with today is the liberalisation of self-trade for employees in financial institutions that took place at the beginning of the 1990s. At that time, the Ministry stated that it was not necessary to restrict self-trade, both because technological developments were to ensure that this was not necessary, and also because the companies themselves would regulate it by means of ethical rules. Of course, this was not the case, because the market has shown that it is not able to deal with that kind of question alone. We've seen that at home, and we've also seen that from a number of examples abroad. So there is an unculture in some parts of these environments that manages and distributes securities, which requires strict and effective lawmaking. That means that what is happening today is a tightening in the right direction, but nevertheless not as far as SV would have liked to see. In the Financial Newspaper on 13 March, Mads Andenæs, Director of the Centre of European Law at Kings College in London, says about the Norwegian securities trading market that one must be ‘idiot to be convicted for insider dealing in Norway’ — it says in the title. He goes on to say: ‘This concerns the confidence of non-residents in the Norwegian financial market. Norway is perceived as an internal market. ‘... He goes on to say about how to deal with such questions: ‘You cannot leave this to the discretion of a person with his own interests and expect him to find the balance between the interests of the client, the shareholders and his own. There is a need for clear rules of conduct, particularly on the broker side, but also on the management of the many conflicts of interest in the new Norwegian financial groups... ’ The whole article is a long ban on the culture of individual investment firms, and not least on how foreigners experience the Norwegian securities market. And that's what's important, because many in the Norwegian securities market don't realize that this is about trust in their own business. Therefore, it has been necessary to tighten up, and therefore the SV had the wish to have a total ban on self-trading for those employed in this type of business. It would have been a more manageable legal question, too, simply because you will now find it difficult to define who is actually sitting with information, and who is not sitting with information. In my opinion, it must be an absolute requirement that I learn at the brokerage houses in no way can be suspected of having self-interest, and that you are absolutely independent of the customers you are to guide. Nevertheless, I would say that the tightening that is now taking place is in the right direction, but SV will keep the possibility open that it may be necessary at a later stage to go even further. At the end of the previous ageing period, SV promoted a proposal for a total ban, which at the time was voted down here in Stortinget, but which has nevertheless resulted in the ministry now dealing with this matter. It remains to be seen whether the securities market itself is capable of dealing with those rules in such a way as to provide confidence. If you can't do it with the tightening up that is taking place here, it's clear to me that you have to go even further, as you've done in a number of other countries. We have so far had a very low level of legislation in Norway, many countries have gone much further than us, not least the United States, where the stock market is the most sacred. There are far stricter rules and far stricter penalties for those who break the rules. The reason for this is obvious: the securities market is completely dependent on trust, and if it is abused by the actors, criminal prosecution must also be carried out, not only as a company, but also as an individual. That question is going to come back to if the situation arose. Now it's up to the market itself to show if you can handle the new rules.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e114	The President assumes that Øystein Djupedal will address the proposals referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e117	That's right!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e122	Then the representative Djupedal has taken up the proposals of the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e125	On 26 June 1998, the Government promoted a proposal for amendments to the Securities Trading Act aimed at limiting access to the trading of financial instruments for own account by some employees of financial institutions, mutual funds management companies and individual companies included in the financial group. The bill also makes some changes to the rules on self-trading by employees of investment firms. The legislative proposal is a follow-up to irregularities detected in the securities market in the winter of 1997 and will replace regulations that were then implemented as immediate measures. I would like to stress that the rules governing the financial industry should contribute to good conditions for saving and good capital management. For saving and investment, the securities market plays an important role. In the securities market, standardised shares are issued and traded in loans – debt securities – and holdings, i.e. shares. Thus, projects can be financed by capital from many independent savers. The individual saver or investor may have a time horizon different from that of the project, since the security may be traded to others. In this way, the securities market helps to separate savings and investment decisions, which is a prerequisite for a well-functioning economy. Value of the paper market can only function as intended if the participants have confidence in the way it works. In my opinion, the government's bill will reduce the risk of conflicts of interest between employees and customers in the financial industry and improve confidence in the Norwegian securities market in general. The bill does not contain a total ban on employees from acting on their own account. Such a prohibition would go beyond the interests of the regulatory framework. However, concrete situational prohibitions are proposed, which, in the view of the Government, will reduce the risk of conflicts of interest and improve confidence in the securities market in general. A number of the proposed restrictions on the right to act on own account already apply to employees of investment firms. However, the proposal implies that similar restrictions will apply to employees of other undertakings with central roles in the financial market. The proposal concerns employees who have access to, or are engaged in, an entity's securities trading or trading on behalf of its clients. Individual groups of trustees, such as directors, alternates and observers to the Management Board, shall also be included. Furthermore, restrictions on trade in securities are proposed for employees’ or trustees’ relatives. The proposal contains a number of situational trade bans for employees. Among the main measures are: Employees must not be able to sell securities until 12 months have elapsed after purchase. Employees cannot act ahead of the company's trade, so-called 'front-running'. Employees cannot deal directly with portfolios/funds managed by their employer. Employees may not sell securities which they do not own, such as short selling.Staff may not trade in derivatives.Staff may not borrow securities or finance securities with security in securities.Staff in mutual funds management companies may not acquire unit trust shares in the trust management company.Staff in investment firms analysing securities may not act in the security in question four weeks before publication of the analysis. In accordance with the already applicable rules for staff of mutual funds management companies, a general rule on the requirements for the staff of investment firms and financial institutions, etc., is proposed. The employee shall inform the counterparty in advance whether a trade is made on behalf of the employee himself or on behalf of the employer. Undertakings shall have internal guidelines that ensure effective control of the compliance of employees with the provisions on own-trade. The employee shall notify the entity of its own trade. The entity shall notify the credit supervision. The draft law provides that the legislation on self-trading shall apply to employees of undertakings established in Norway, irrespective of whether it is a Norwegian undertaking or an undertaking with a head office in another EEA State and a branch in Norway. I am pleased that the Committee on Budgets, or a majority of the Committee on Budgets, has largely endorsed the Ot.prp proposals. No 84 for 1997-98. The Committee has made some minor changes that I consider to be unproblematic, but I will comment on one amendment in more detail. The Committee proposes that employees of public funds and public financial institutions be directly covered by the law. I would like to stress that it has always been intended that such public servants should be covered by the legislation, but the question has been whether this should be regulated by law or regulation. I have no objection that the public employees will now be directly covered by the law.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e179	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 464]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e193	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 25 minutes, the Advance Party, Christian equals the People's Party and Right 10 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, Left and Twist People's Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each group of parties and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e204	The current position on new health professionals is marked by a large degree of consensus. The law travels few – if any – really party political battle points. This, of course, is primarily due to the nature of the matter, but it is also due to the fact that cooperation within the Committee has been good. The lot has focused on finding common positions and comments where there is no real disagreement. But of course it is also because the government provided a good basis. The proposal has taken great account of the main objections raised during the consultation round. Some of the hearing bodies of this law – not least those who today have their own so-called professional laws – were sceptical about their being included in a common health law with all other health professionals without any special provisions. However, with the changes proposed by the Government in relation to the consultation note, the Committee has heard very few – if any – serious objections to the legislative proposal in its work. I would also mention that the Workers' Party, which could have chosen to follow the consultation note of the previous government, has made constructive contributions, so that the committee's position has essentially become unanimous. To this end, the Committee agrees that there should be a common health-care professional law. The hope is that this will help to strengthen patients’ rights and legal certainty. We also hope that this will lead to a clearer and more uniform law, which will make it easier to practice both for the ministry and health professionals. Hopefully, this will also lead to clearer conditions for patients. The requirement of soundness has been and is central to this law. Individual health professionals are given individual responsibility for acting in a manner that is sound, even if, of course, the employer is also required to set up the business so that the staff can fulfil their responsibilities in the field of safety. Health professionals are required to stay within their field of competence and to refer patients forward when their own competences do not extend. I am pleased that there has been a unanimous agreement on the legalisation of the fact that when different groups cooperate, it is the doctor and dentist who will make decisions on medical and odontological issues respectively. Nevertheless, it must be pointed out that the limits of what are medical and odontological issues are not always as easy to draw. Therefore, it should also be emphasised that of course, psychologists who decide on an independent basis on psychological questions and treat mental disorders on an independent basis, such as: chiropractors, physiotherapists and midwives also have autonomy in their fields. The obligation of professional secrecy is also essential to maintain and strengthen patient confidence in the healthcare system and its staff. The new legislative proposal currently in force is essentially a continuation of the existing rules on professional secrecy. However, the Government has proposed an extension of the exemptions from the obligation of professional secrecy. A minority, consisting of the Party of Advances, Right and SV, does not agree to this and oppose the new proposal in Section 23 paragraph. 2nd@item: inlistbox We believe that the exemptions from the obligation of professional secrecy should be as limited as possible and should not allow for individual interpretations and judgement of health professionals, as we believe this paragraph does. With regard to the right of others to request confidential information — it concerns insurance corporations, credit institutions, etc. – may well be asked if patients have a high level of volunteering in order to make an undertaking that such confidentiality-related information about them may be divulged. There is a sample working to assess this, and the Committee proposes that the Government submit a separate case to the Storting, assessing the extent to which insurance companies should be entitled to go in order to require disclosure of professional health information and personal lifestyle information as a basis for insurance contracts. I think it can be discussed more than it has been done both in the legislative proposal and in the committee's setting, how far one should go in giving different personnel groups authorisation. But the ministry has gone very far in its proposal. Very many groups are now being authorised. The committee goes even further. When the criteria for granting authorisation are that the personnel work independently and have extensive patient contact, to which the Committee subscribes, the Committee has found that the orthoptists and pharmacists should also be given authorisation and propose it. The right is alone in opposing the department's jurisdiction with regard to the possibility for future groups assessed for authorisation to have this regulated. This is not a big issue, but when the law includes such a large number of personnel groups that have a statutory right to authorisation, we do not think that future groups should only get it through regulation. It is an advantage for the public and for the clarity of the law that all groups are mentioned in the law, otherwise we can risk getting the feeling that there is an A and a B layer in terms of authorisation. We can't see that promoting legislative changes in this area will be particularly resource-intensive or any delaying term. In the case of authorisation and licensing, this automatically lapses when you reach the age of 75, but you can obtain a licence — in a way, a restricted authorisation — even if you pass 75 years, if you are otherwise fit to continue in the profession. The Committee stresses that this should be facilitated. We have staff shortages in many categories of our healthcare system, and it should therefore, for the sake of professionals who want to continue, for the benefit of patients and for the sake of society, facilitate the continuation of older professionals, so that staff shortages can be remedied. Proposals have been made in the proposal for better coordination of patient information and records. The Right Party and the Advance Party point out that the Special Health Service Act opens up the possibility of being a patient-responsible doctor, and we already want to legislate here in the Health Care Act that where you have a patient-responsible doctor, it should be the person responsible for coordinating the information and the patient's report. We think it will be the most natural and tidy. The majority of the Committee, all except the members of the Progress Party, supports the regulation of the possibility of having bee jobs in addition to the main employer. I would like to stress that I see it so that the Government's proposal is a legalisation of current practice, and no desire to restrict the positive contribution that leisure practices currently make to a larger, more comprehensive and more flexible healthcare system than we would otherwise have. In the case of quack salsa, there are proposals for changes here, so that it will now only apply to those who are not health professionals and who are therefore not covered by the new Health Care Act. Some representatives of alternative medicine have expressed concern that the new Health Care Act will now lead to a monopoly on providing health care for those who receive the designation of health professionals. That's not right. The Ministry and the Committee do not propose any changes here. The changes in the quack-salver law will primarily apply to those who are health professionals and will therefore not lead to any changes in the situation of alternative practitioners. The Committee will not, at this stage, decide on authorisation for different groups of alternative practitioners, e.g.: acupunctuators, assuming that the Department submits a separate case to the Aarbakke Committee on the positioning of the Aarbakke Committee, which concerns the relationship between the different groups to health. Then it just remains to recommend the vote, while I have to take the small reservations contained in the proposals from the Right, whether we promote them alone or with other parties, and I am also addressing the proposals we are promoting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e236	The President then records that Annelise Höegh has taken up the proposals No. One, two, three, seven. The President will, on the basis of information provided by the chairperson of the Committee, propose that, following the submission of the main speakers by each party group, the reply be withdrawn. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. However, the reply to contributions from members of the Government will be maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e245	In many ways, the law we have today to treat is groundbreaking. In the past, we have had several laws that regulate the activities of certain professional groups, and one might say that the development of the competences of the different professional groups has been extensive in recent years. This, together with authorisation provisions, has been important in the development of our health care system. The responsibilities of the health service today are large and comprehensive and span several administrative levels. Thus, patients also receive their treatment and care from different parts of the healthcare system. The functioning of such a comprehensive healthcare system requires good cooperation both across levels and across professional groups. If a few want such cooperation, it is important to have clear management structures, information channels and understanding of competences. If we are to have an effective and well-organised healthcare system, it is also important that the competences of different groups of health professionals are used in a rational and professionally sound manner. I think it is right to say that many rational organisational changes and appropriate work divisions have been stopped through the many perceptions of unnecessary and incomprehensible professional struggles. Many patients and clients have also experienced this type of gambling. Patients have been uneasy about what they have been able to expect from different parts of the healthcare system, and it has often been complained that one has not received sufficient information or has not understood the information that has been provided. With the major health challenges today, it has therefore been very important to have a coherent law that can help to develop a comprehensive health system. It goes without saying that the work on a law covering all Norwegian health professionals, private and public, who are to coordinate the requirements of different professions and replace previous professional laws, has been very extensive and partly conflicted. I therefore think that there is every reason to pay tribute to the work that has been done in this context, both the work that was started and set up by the former Council of State, Gudmund Hernes, and the work that has been followed up by the Council of State, Højbrätten. The thorough work that has been done and the understanding that organisations have also shown with regard to bringing together legislation have clearly contributed to the fact that the position we are discussing today is very much in agreement with the committee. When one has wanted a common law for those working in the healthcare system, it is in order to better address patients’ demands for health care safety and to counteract an unacceptable professional struggle. The entire Committee thus stresses that an important objective of a common health law must be to help reduce the scope of responsibilities and competences. § 4, which deals with the concept of safety, or what must be understood as sound professional practice, is a key paragraph for understanding border crossings for different professional and work tasks. Responsibilities in professional practice apply not only to authorised personnel but to all health professionals. The concept of accountability is a legal standard which implies a differentiation based on the qualifications of health professionals and the situation elsewhere. Qualifications are intended for formal and real qualifications, i.e.: health professional training, supplementary training and experience. The general concept of safety thus limits the performance of health professionals other than those qualified to do so. From this point of view, one might ask questions about the need for the third paragraph of Section 4, which says that doctors should make decisions on medical questions and dentists on odontological questions. One could, in particular, clarify other professional groups and their decision-making or leave the concept of accountability on its own, as was the case in the law’s draft consultation. However, the majority of the Committee does not propose any changes to the Government’s proposal, but has chosen to provide the same type of clarification for other groups in its comments, such as: states that psychologists are qualified to make decisions on psychological issues and to treat mental disorders on an independent basis, and similarly for chiropractors, midwives, etc. within their field of competence. The current legislative proposal is an extension of existing health legislation by assuming that anyone who investigates, diagnoses, treats or otherwise follows up a patient in his profession is subject to the regulations of the law. This implies that all those having their functions in the health system have obligations under this Act and that the provisions of the Act are used to supervise health care providers. Several obligations currently regulated only for some groups apply to all health professionals. It concerns the duty of safety, the duty of immediate assistance, patient information obligations and new obligations such as: reporting obligations for beekeeping, record-keeping and mandatory abstinence. As previously mentioned, there is a broad consensus on the present proposal, and it is a unanimous committee that believes that the new Health Care Act will contribute to a more tidy and uniform law for health professionals. Furthermore, it will provide authorities with better transparency and governance and help strengthen patients’ rights and legal certainty.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e275	Let me first thank the rapporteur for a very good presentation of the present position. The health professionals law that we are now dealing with is the first of four health laws that the social committee is dealing with in the spring session. All the legislative proposals are quite voluminous, and it had not, in my opinion, damaged the propositions if the text volume had been significantly reduced – this as a little heartache from the committee leader to the health minister. There can also be a question mark by whether it was reasonable to press on to treatment for four such comprehensive health legislations with such significance for a long time to come, in a short spring session on Stortinget. On the other hand, it may also be claimed that by dealing with all the legislative proposals continuously and collectively, one will have greater opportunities to see the coherence or lack of coherence between the different legislative proposals. One of my objections to the legislative proposals is, as I see it, that they are too little coordinated both in terms of content and the legal text. In particular, I think this is prominent in relation to the health care law we are dealing with today, and the one that comes as no. 2, the law on specialist health services. I do not ignore the fact that the laws we are making today and in the coming days in connection with the other three health laws, within a relatively short period of time, may need to be changed, but there is no need for any criticism either by the ministry or the social committee. In the current position of health professionals, there is a large cross-political consensus both in terms and in legal texts, unless exceptions are made. However, it seems to me that there is reason to believe that political disagreement is increasing when Odelstingen is dealing with the law on specialist health services. Like the other parties, the Progress Party supports the proposal for a common law for health professionals, a common law that will hinder the continued use of legislation for the monopolisticisation of special tasks among different groups of health professionals. The Party also agrees that the Act covers health professionals without authorisation or licence, and that the same professional soundness requirements also apply to these groups. I am pleased that it was possible to reach full agreement within the Committee on the authorization of pharmacists and orthoptists. In the opinion of the Progress Party, there is a mismatch between the requirement of accountability to health professionals in the present position and the fact that the same requirement is not imposed on the service or the institutions or their owners in the specialist healthcare service, and that is, in particular, systemic responsibility. It must be correct, in the opinion of the Progress Party, that the organisational health service, whether the specialist health service or the community health service, is obliged to facilitate the performance of their duties by health professionals. I also believe it is a significant weakness in the present attitude that neither the organisational structure of the healthcare system nor the management structure are taken into consideration. It should be clarified in the bill that the person with the medical responsibility for the treatment of patients in the healthcare system should also have authority, which in my opinion suggests that the leaders of clinical departments should be doctors with managerial competence. Together with the Right, the Advance Party promotes a proposal to amend the first paragraph of Section 10, which relates to the obligation to provide information to a patient-responsible doctor and which requires hospitals to appoint such a patient-responsible doctor. In addition to the obligation to provide information to the patient, the Progressive Party believes that the responsibility for patients’ records should also lie with the patient-responsible physician on a case-by-case basis. The Party opposes restrictions on the marketing of different cosmetic health services and considers that the provisions of the Marketing Act should also be sufficient in this context in terms of the marketing of health services. Together with the Right, the Advance Party promotes proposals for amending the legal text on this point. The point of progress is that other than doctors and dentists are able to obtain prescription drugs. I think it is particularly positive that a State Health Care Professional should now be set up to deal with complaints made against health professionals. Such a reference would clearly improve the legal certainty of healthcare professionals, while ensuring that patients and healthcare users are properly and legally safe in a timely manner. The Advance Party believes that the Health Service should consist of only five persons: two lawyers, one leader, two health professionals and one medical representative. We think that a smaller number of members in this denominator make the denominator more manageable, and the denominator will also get the same number of members that, for example, the Patient Damage Study has. The Progress Party believes it is very unfortunate and can have consequences that the law imposes a mandatory obligation on health care professionals to report bees, and we will therefore vote against this bill. We believe that a better system than the mandatory reporting obligation would be to include rules on this in the Staff Regulations of the various institutions and become part of the employment conditions of individual health professionals. The beekeeping of doctors today represents a significant number of annual works representing quite a large number of patient treatments, which could be lost by introducing rigorous reporting obligations, where it is up to the individual employer/hospital to accept this or not. In my opinion, it must also be allowed for doctors to work in their own profession on their leisure time, and I have the confidence in professional ethics among our doctors that such activities do not compete with their own employer. Finally, I am addressing the proposals made by the Progress Party in the vote, and I would like to point out that the representative Annelise Höegh addressed the proposals we are with the Right on.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e305	John I. Alvheim has addressed the proposals to which he referred, which are the proposals No. 4-6.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e308	The current Odelstinget Health Care Professional Act is intended to replace nine different Health Professional Laws. It thus involves a significant revision and summary of existing legislation, but also contains new important elements. I refer you to the rapporteur's presentation, and I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on his constructive work in the committee. This is a large and complex piece of legislation, but the Christian People's Party is pleased with the high degree of consensus it has been in the committee, which is also related to the fact that the bill has taken care of many of the views of the various hearing bodies in relation to the hearing note, and that there has been a good and thorough preparation at all. Nevertheless, some occupational groups have initially been negative to a common health professionals’ law. This is understandable in view of the fact that these groups have had laws for their professional activities with which there has been a great deal of satisfaction. As the Christian People's Party sees it, however, there is an advantage to an overall health law for all health professionals, so that this law applies to all professional practice where you act by virtue of being a health professional. We also believe that the specificities of specific occupational groups are well taken into account in the present legislative proposal, and here we refer to the provision that doctors and dentists should make decisions on medical and odontological issues relating to the examination and treatment of the individual patient, respectively. The background to this provision is also the essential requirement for all health professionals for the proper exercise of their professional functions. Whereas the provision of safety is essentially a continuation of the law in force, but the requirement of professional soundness has been clarified and applied to all health professionals; Using soundness as a fundamental principle — common to all professional groups of health professionals — specifies quality assurance to guarantee the quality of the healthcare offered to the individual patient. Despite the high standard of healthcare in Norway, situations will arise where health professionals are complained about. I am pleased that a unanimous committee agrees that a State Health Care Professional is being set up as a new independent review body. As a rule, decisions taken by the Health Authority in appeal proceedings cannot be appealed after the current legal situation. This will be possible with the establishment of a healthcare professional and thus improve legal certainty for health professionals. There is some disagreement within the Committee, as mentioned by previous speakers, as to the composition of the term, but not as to its establishment or the scope. In conjunction with the bill, a unanimous committee also asks the Government to submit to the Stortinget a case in which one assesses the extent to which insurance companies should have the right to require disclosure of confidentiality and other health information as a basis for an insurance contract. The Committee is aware that a selection is working on this and sees this as an important area of clarity. The new Health Care Act involves not only the clean-up and revision of existing legislation, but a new system and summary of key principles, for the benefit of society, health professionals and patients.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e323	The new law on health professionals now being dealt with will contribute to a cleaner and more uniform law for health professionals. I would like to stress the importance of the majority of the Committee's opinion on the importance of preventing uncoordinated information from several teams from giving the patient an unclear and confusing picture of their own health status. It is important that a patient has a clear picture of where he stands. Health institutions must draw up procedures to ensure compliance. One of the key issues in this law is the authorisation system. I'm glad that both the department and the committee find the authorisation system as an important means of controlling the patient's safety. The main purpose of the authorisation system is to ensure the necessary competence and quality of healthcare and to create predictability and security of the qualifications of those using the different titles. The Committee supports the Ministry’s proposal for an extension of authorised health classifications in order to enhance professional accountability in patient care. But I would like to remind you that today it is an ever-growing conglomerate of alternative health services. For the sake of serious practitioners in this grouping, and not least for the safety of patients, which is always the most important, there is also a need here for a clean system that provides good guidance to users on what a choice of offer involves, i.e. a form of fact. I am the mother of a boy with asthma and allergies, and it has taught me to turn the goods around when I buy them, to see what they contain. That's absolutely necessary. And if there is no product declaration, I can't buy it, because it can cause quite serious side effects, sickness and death. It's a fact that part of what's called alternative medicine can also produce dramatic effects. It is therefore important that as soon as possible a follow-up to the Aarbakke Committee's position, as I know, has now been given to the Committee. I would like to point out what an overall committee says in the setting, that they assume that the department is presenting a separate case to the Stortinget based on the Aarbakke Committee's position on the location of alternative medicine in relation to the established healthcare system, and the approval and training requirements for practitioners of alternative or supplementary medicine. I see it as important that this is followed up by the department as soon as possible. In the meantime, we will only be able to support what the department stresses in this law, which I think is important, where it is pointed out that ‘any person who examines, diagnoses, treats or otherwise follows up a patient in his profession must be subject to the regulations of the law. This implies an extension of the scope in relation to current health professionals’ legislation. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e345	As has been said by several speakers here, there has been a great deal of consensus in the Committee on the treatment of health professionals, and the things I come up with here are also not very central points that will be decisive in relation to the final quality of the draft legislation itself, although there may be disagreement on some points. This is one of the four health laws under consideration by the Committee and it may seem obvious that this is the least controversial. We will be allowed the specialist health services, the law on the establishment and implementation of mental health protection and the law on patient rights for treatment in Odelstinget later in the spring. Still, there are some points I could think of commenting on. I registered that the head of the committee was involved with beekeeping and expressed opposition to having one's own paragraph, namely Section 19, which imposes on the employer notification of beekeeping and other involvement in other activities. In my view, it makes sense to have that kind of regulation. It may make sense not only for health professionals but also for other professional groups, but it will fall outside this law to regulate. However, it is clear that part of the culture that has developed in relation to beekeeping in public enterprises, where there are grey areas between paid work by employers and private sector revenues, is not lucky, and it should be regulated so as to provide clarity on where the boundaries go. This does not mean suspecting health professionals or believing that very many people are exploiting this, but it is unfortunate when confusion arises, so that there may be different perceptions between the employer and the employee about where these limits go. In my view, it is a clear strength that Section 19, which regulates the relationship, is included here. In the case of professional secrecy, SV has joined the Right Party and the Advance Party on a note related to Section 23, which indicates restrictions on professional secrecy. I would like to emphasise here that it is a clear strength that the law emphasises the regulation of professional secrecy and provides clear rules on its validity. However, elements that may reduce the obligation of professional secrecy, such as paragraph 2 of Section 23, which states that the obligation of professional secrecy under Section 21 does not prevent ‘information being provided where no legitimate interest indicates secrecy’. It is such a vague wording that it can be interpreted by some in such a way that you go on with information that the patient in turn is not fit for you to go on with. It will be difficult there and then to overlook the consequences, so in my view it is an unnecessary point, which should have been removed. SV also agrees with the Right and Advance Party as regards the number of members of the State Health Service. In order to facilitate the work, we think it would have been enough with five members and not seven, when you have two lawyers and two people from the health sector with a high level of professional competence. Rules on the deletion of patient information are a clear strength in the law. At the same time, one can face a practical problem in relation to data journals by the fact that it is currently very difficult and sometimes impossible to delete information, precisely because health professionals do not think it appropriate for them to be able to remove it. So here you're facing a practical challenge when you're going to follow the law. Finally, I would like to point out that, as far as authorisation is concerned, the Ministry proposes that not only doctors and dentists be given an authorisation, but that all groups complying with the requirements should be authorised instead of receiving official approval. That's a sensible approach. However, a question that has been central to the Committee when discussing this issue is how to grant authorisation, whether to grant approval to new groups by the Ministry, or whether to include new authorisation in the law through wholesale treatment. It is, in my view, a very heavy approach and hardly sensible if, for each new group, you are to have it for treatment in the Stortinget. There's also a question of principle related to it. In my view, it will be much easier for the ministry to make a professional assessment of the groups to be authorised. It is a typical area for which the department should be responsible. The Swedish authorities believe that all groups should be treated equally, and therefore that all authorisation should be given via the ministry, including for the group that has been listed. The SV shall promote its own proposal on what is different from the other proposals available. That is why this proposal has been put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e362	Olav Gunnar Ballo has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e366	As the Left is not represented in the Social Committee, there may, for my part, be grounds for complimenting both the Committee and the Government/Ministry for promoting a good proposal for a common health care law. It's positive with a common law. It will eliminate unnecessary differences between the laws for the different categories of personnel, and it ensures that, in relation to all groups of health professionals, the issues regulated by the legislation will be assessed more accurately and more accurately, when the law applies to all categories of personnel than if the law applies only to individual groups. And then at the same time you have to take it into account that well, at least in principle, it is a disadvantage to have a common law in the sense that it can reduce the possibilities of any desired differences between the different personnel groups. I think that would be a very small problem and perhaps more a fundamental question, but it may require some prescription homes. There is reason to hope that a common law will be able to reduce professional disputes. At the same time, you have to take into account that when you have different skills, it's because you have different qualifications, and you have to take into account that different disciplines like this will best satisfy different desires. But you don't want to make the difference in your profession, and it can help to reduce the law in common. I think it's important to stress that a common law at the height could be a contribution to reducing unnecessary professional struggles. I don't think you should have excessive notions of what a law in itself could result in with regard to these kinds of questions. So I don't think we're going to have any notions that a common law will immediately eliminate the professional disputes you have. The law is otherwise important in that it imposes clear obligations on health professionals. It requires all healthcare professionals to be sound, it clarifies matters of responsibility, and it imposes an obligation on all healthcare professionals to provide immediate assistance. An important counterpart of imposing clear obligations on personnel is that they also strengthen the legal position and situation of patients. It's an important perspective of this law. Important points here are that patients should be involved in treatment and that the quality of treatment and the safety of patients should be strengthened. In relation to health issues and health professionals, the issue of professional secrecy will always be central and important. It is an area where difficult balances will have to be made between legitimate considerations. I want to focus on the importance of the obligation of professional secrecy and that you are on the lookout for exploits in this. For our part, we are prepared to accept the deviations made in the setting, but I want to make at least two comments. Firstly, in the case of the home of Section 28 to be able to provide information to the employer, it is important that such a prescription is used restrictively, and that what is granted is very careful. I also have to say that I have some doubts about the position I will take to Section 23 No. 2nd@item: inlistbox I think that such a provision might have a certain clarifying meaning, and that it might be as neat to have that provision as to slip it, after all. Finally, I just want to say that we are going to agree with the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, and we are essentially joining in on the comments they stand for in the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e383	This is a historic day for healthcare professionals. It's been over 100 years since we got our first staff, law of midwives of December 19, 1898, no. 2nd@item: inlistbox And 63 years ago, the Stortinget passed the law on quack salves, which was to protect the inhabitants from quack ointments by other practitioners than doctors and dentists. Just in the interests of patients’ safety, we have our own legislation for healthcare professionals. In Norway, the practice of health professionals has been regulated by several different laws for the different groups of personnel. These have been created at different times and for different purposes. Time has now come from the peculiarities of the special laws. In St.meld. No 41 for 1987-88, Health policy towards the year 2000, the Ministry suggested that the issue of a common health law should be examined in greater detail. The aim was to try to achieve a more level playing field and a greater sense of Community preference between health professionals. The Social Committee followed up this initiative in its position. This is the starting point for Ot.prp nr. 13, About the law on health professionals, etc., was presented to the Stortinget in November last year. There's also another dimension of this case that has history all over it in many ways. The majority today has the first of five laws presented by the Government in a comprehensive reform of health legislation. Together with escalation plans and other reform work, the new laws are the main instruments of the Government’s health and welfare policy. Together, the laws will provide a modern framework for the development of a national health service that is rationally operated, is of good quality and is a service for individuals. A common health-care professional law is proposed to replace a total of nine existing professional laws. In itself, it is a rather significant legislative simplification project and a contribution to achieving the Government’s objective of a simpler Norway. By regulating the professional practice of healthcare professionals in a common law, a better way is to meet quality requirements and the safety of patients in healthcare, and to counteract a struggle for professionalism that society will not accept, we will not tolerate the war in white. The law provides for a more accessible and uniform regulatory framework for health professionals, which can thus contribute to better understanding and compliance with the requirements imposed. The law provides for clarification, a significant improvement and, in some respects, a modification of the existing legislation. To put it simply, the law involves six important changes: The scope of regulation of the professional activities of healthcare professionals will be extended and will thus improve the control capacity of health authorities.The requirement for the proper exercise of the profession of health professionals is explicitly laid down.We have rules for the treatment of patient information for all healthcare professionals.There will be improved legal certainty for health professionals by introducing a health professional name as a complaint body in response to personnel. Patients’ access to justice is proposed to be regulated. The Quark Salvage Act is only proposed to apply to personnel not covered by new health professionals’ laws. The overall objective of the Law on Quality and Safety of Health Services implies that all personnel providing healthcare within the scope of the Act are covered by the regulations. The law therefore applies initially to all health professionals, both authorised personnel and those without authorisation. The last one is an innovation. The authorisation system is a state control to ensure the patient’s health care safety. The means of control shall be linked to supervision of the pursuit of the profession by requiring a particular professional activity to be authorised and to the refusal to be issued or withdrawn. It is new that health professionals other than those officially authorised are directly regulated by law. Health professionals are defined by function in healthcare. Nine new professional groups are proposed to be authorised by the Ministry and two more by the Committee. The general obligation for the proper exercise of the profession is the main regulation of the exercise of the role of health professionals. For individual personnel, the requirement of soundness implies an obligation to act in accordance with professional standards and legal requirements for the pursuit of the profession. The law also regulates the pursuit of the profession through more specific obligations – as an obligation to provide immediate assistance and to inform and involve the patient – and provisions for undue influence and establishment of the actual exercise of the profession. It makes it visible that each staff has a separate responsibility and it is clarified that regulation of general over- and under-employment conditions is not regulated by law. It is left to the employer and to special legislation. There have been criticisms from several teams that the Health Authority’s decisions on warning, recall, etc. by authorization or official approval as a general rule cannot be appealed against. Therefore, a health professional name is established, which shall be an independent review body in relation to the individual decision of the Health Authority in respect of administrative responses to health professionals. The establishment of a formal appeal body will also help to create a general trust in the system, which is also a main objective of the law as a whole. Finally, let me express my gratitude for the good work done by the Committee and by the rapporteur on this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e426	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 468]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e434	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e440	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals No. 2 and 3, from Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e478	Before voting on the vote, the President will vote on Amendment No 1, from the Progress Party, to Section 2a-1. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the proposal for amendments to the Securities Trading Act § 2a-1, first paragraph, last comma, the words ‘, or periodically,’ between the words ‘normal’ and ‘have’ are added. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e575	To the third subparagraph, an aberrant proposal is made, No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. There is therefore a vote first on the proposal from the Socialist Left Party and then on the vote. The Progress Party has announced that it will vote against the third paragraph. It is eventually added to the other paragraphs of Section 2a-2. The proposal from the Socialist Left and the Progressive Party is as follows: ‘Law of 19 June 1997 No 79 on securities trading is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e627	The party of progress has announced that they are going against the first and second paragraphs. The first sentence of the third subparagraph is accompanied by an aberrant proposal, No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law of 19 June 1997 No 79 on securities trading is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e708	The party of progress has announced that they are going against the last paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e867	It is then voted over the title of the law and the law in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e874	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e880	In the course of the debate, eight proposals have been put forward. It's: proposal No 1, by Annelise Höegh, on behalf of the Party for Progress, the Right and the Socialist Left, on the proposals No. 2 and 3, by Annelise Höegh, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, Proposals No. 4-6, by John I. Alvheim on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities 7, by Annelise Höegh, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 8, by Olav Gunnar Ballo on behalf of the Socialist Left Party
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e1024	For the first subparagraph, there is an aberrant proposal, No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Law on Health Personnel, etc. Paragraph 10 of the first paragraph shall be replaced by the following: The person providing health care shall provide information to patients and the person entitled to do so within the framework of the provisions of the Patient Rights Act, Sections 3 to 2 of Section 3-4. In healthcare institutions, information after the first sentence shall be provided by a patient-responsible doctor or by the healthcare provider. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e1056	For the first subparagraph, there is an aberrant proposal, No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Law on Health Personnel, etc. Section 11 of the first paragraph shall be replaced by the following: only doctors and dentists can obtain prescriptions for medicinal products. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e1117	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 3, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Law on Health Personnel, etc. Section 13 shall be replaced by the following:§ 13 MarketingThe marketing of healthcare shall be defence equal, sober and factual. In the case of placing on the market activities providing health care, the first subparagraph shall apply mutatis mutandis. In addition, the law on market surveillance and contractual arrangements apply. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e1174	The party of progress has announced that they are going against the last paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e1177	The right-hand side also goes against the last term.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e1237	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e1285	For the second and third subparagraphs, an aberrant proposal, No. 5, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Law on Health Personnel, etc. Paragraph 22 of the second and third paragraphs shall be replaced by the following:For persons under the age of 18, the rules of the patient's right law shall apply to § 4-4 and the second paragraph of the third paragraph, corresponding to the consent of the first subparagraph. For persons over 18 years of age who are unable to assess matters of consent for reasons referred to in the second paragraph of Section 3-3 of the Patient Rights Act, the closest relatives may consent to the first subparagraph. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e1332	The party of progress has announced that they are against No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The vote will be taken at the next voting time. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e1335	President, it says in the vote, and I mentioned it when I took up the proposals, that this is a joint proposal from the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e1342	The right-hand side is also going to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e1345	SV also votes against.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e1352	The Socialist Left Party also joins the Advance Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e1468	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e1551	Two different proposals are made for the second subparagraph. That is proposal No. 6, from the Progress Party: ‘In the Law on Health Personnel, etc. Section 39, second paragraph, shall be replaced by the following:In healthcare institutions which have a patient-responsible physician, the patient shall be fully and completely responsible for the patient's record. ‘... And proposal No. 7, from the right: ‘In the Law on Health Personnel, etc. Paragraph 39, second paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: in healthcare institutions, the patient-responsible doctor or the person designated by the institution shall have overseen responsibility for each individual journal and shall decide on the information to be included in the passport file. ‘... The President will first vote on the proposal from the Right, and then alternately between the vote on the second paragraph and the proposal from the Progress Party. The President has understood that the Right supports the proposals of the Progress Party in a subsidiary way. – It is confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e1586	The first and last paragraphs of the option are quoted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e1805	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Law on Health Personnel, etc. Section 48 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e2085	For the second and third subparagraphs, an aberrant proposal, No. 1 by the Party of Advancement, Right and Socialist Left: the proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Law on Health Personnel, etc. Paragraph 69, second and third paragraphs, shall be replaced by the following: the health profession of the Member State shall consist of two persons, one of whom shall be the head of the profession, and two persons with a health professional background and a medical representative; the health professional of the Member State shall appoint two experts for assistance in each case. ‘... The second and third paragraphs and the proposal of the Party of Advancement, the Right and the Left Party of Socialism are replaced by the first and last paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e2467	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e2474	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e2485	The proposal under B will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22-lower.ana.ud851e2494	There is no record.
