ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e42	The representative Astrid Marie Nistad, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. The called alternate of the Buskerud County, Gerd Johnsen, has taken the seat. Three permit applications are available: from the representative of Steinar Bastisen on leave from 26 April to 28 April to attend an international fisheries development conference in Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire from the representative of Arne Lyngstad on leave on 26 and 27 April to take part in a study tour directed by the Atlantic Association of Young Political Leaders to the United States from the representative of Bjørn Hernæs on leave on 27 and 28 April to take part in a study trip directed by the People's Party and Defence to Brussels [[AAYPL]] On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Hedmark County: Magnhild Byseth Olrud For the Nordic region: Arvid Falch For the North-Trundellag County: Astri Wessel
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e94	The representative Sverre J. Hoddevik will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e97	On behalf of the representative Lars Arne Ryssdal and myself, I would like to propose that fee-funded municipal technical services be put on the market, audited and praised according to consumption.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e102	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e120	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Peter AngelsenState Council Firebjørg County Council Dagfinn Højbrätten The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. - No one's getting up. We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative John I. Alvheim.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e141	My question goes to the Minister of Health. After 60 years of antibiotic use, both indigenous and foreign bacterial groups and basil resistant to antibiotic treatment are now recorded. Some of these bacteria, such as multiple resistant staphylococci strains, have already entered Swedish hospitals and are particularly alarming. It's just a matter of time when we want to get acquainted with these bacteria in Norwegian hospitals. In this situation, it is therefore extremely worrying to record that most of our hospitals do not have regulatory isolates to isolate these patients from the rest of the patient population, and I want to ask the health minister what he intends to do with this serious problem.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e148	I share Mr. Alvheim's view on the seriousness of the issue of antibiotic-resistant bacteria. Therefore, this government has also taken a political initiative to establish an action plan against antibiotic resistance in the Norwegian health system. It's set at five million. to this end on the 1999 State budget, and the Government has had a group which has investigated the basis for an overall plan on which measures may be appropriate in combating the development of resistance to antibiotics. Firstly, the use of antibiotics is smaller and more appropriate, because all use of such drugs increases the risk of resistance; secondly, priority is given to prevention measures to limit the occurrence of infections; thirdly, it is to prevent the spread of antibiotic resistance via the movement of biological material. With regard to this last point, the guidelines for and follow-up to hospital standards in relation to this important area of infection protection are also part of what is being worked on in this action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e153	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. I'm glad that work is going on, but it's really urgent to get regulatory isolates in all of our Norwegian hospitals. Has the Minister of Health so far obtained an overview of which hospitals are missing a regulatory isolate or more, so that we are able to prevent what will happen — probably not for that long — in Norwegian hospitals? Now I am aware that several Norwegian hospitals that lack isolates – at least they say so – do not have the means to establish such isolates. I believe that these isolates must be established immediately, costing what it will cost. If so, what will the Minister of Health do to ensure that Norwegian hospitals have these isolates in place during the current year?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e162	As I said, this work we have now started contains an action plan to combat antibiotic resistance. Money has been allocated, and efforts are being made to develop a monitoring system that should be involved in monitoring the problem in its full scope, and to help with and monitor the problem. The action plan will indicate concrete measures when it is finalised, and then action to address hospitals will also be part of it. That's what I can answer at this point and on this basis.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e169	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e172	I'm going to ask the Minister of Defence a question, and the starting point is Kosovo. The reason why NATO entered that conflict was a desire to help stop the increasing tendency to abuse the civilian population in Kosovo. Now it is important to get the Serbian forces out and the refugees back into Kosovo, thus laying the basis for political solutions to the Kosovo conflict. From a military point of view, how does the Minister of Defence now assess the situation in Kosovo? Have evolutions gone in the direction one had hoped?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e179	First, I want to grasp what we might have hoped for. I think most of us hoped that this would be a short-term operation, but it has become a war that seems to go further than we had just hoped. We know that we are now in a phase 2 +, because there have been weather conditions that have said that so far you have not been able to carry out the actions in the way you had predicted. We know that Milosevic's integrated air defence system is out of play. We also know that the fuel shortage is starting to become visible, at least in the short term. We know that part of the infrastructure that is also used to bring in supplies is beginning to suffer so much damage that it is difficult to implement inputs. And we know, in sum, that Milosevic is weakened. NATO's bombing will obviously now come to effect quickly because we're now as far out in phase 2 as we are, so we'll probably see an effect of this hopefully in the near future. But it's impossible for me to go into a more detailed level than this and say what the direct consequences of the military operations are.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e187	What we can then say is that the Minister of Defence is not in agreement with those who now think that this has been a failure – rather, on the contrary, the action has had its effect, and it will have a stronger effect in the future, so the Minister of Defence sees a solution because of this action.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e192	I hope, like everyone else, that we will resolve this conflict through diplomatic and political influence. But we cannot judge this action or the war for the time being in a phase 2, when we know that it is a total strategy for a new phase, and where the NATO countries together say that it is now important to carry out the entire operation before we can draw a conclusion as to whether it is a failure or not.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e197	There will be follow-up questions – Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e200	It is now clear from the debate in several countries that it cannot be ruled out that NATO's commander-in-command will at some point request access to use and access to ground forces. Will the Minister of Defence confirm that the Ministry of Defence has undertaken the necessary preparatory work, so that no time has been lost if, at a later stage, NATO military leadership shows a desire for access to ground forces, and that Norway has also done the necessary preparatory work, since we may be relying on voluntary teams?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e207	I assume that Hagen does not think about the ground forces that we might be contributing to, as far as we can, if it's about going in after you've come to an understanding of going in. The representative is probably talking about those who would have to be a strengthening of the air war. In fact, there are discussions about ground forces in many environments between individuals from different parts of the world. However, in Norway, we have not been informed – in NATO’s organs – of how to prepare this. There is no current issue. So whether we're going to start preparing at this point is a question of assessment. I expect that when we from the Government – the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and I – travel to NATO’s summit tomorrow, we will be able to participate in a total discussion on the Kosovo situation, where, of course – if it is addressed – this too – will be handled by the Norwegian side.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e214	Erik Solheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e217	All credit to the Government for so far making every effort to resolve the conflict along a diplomatic trail, among other things. in close cooperation with Russia. It is that track that needs to be pursued further, that is crucial and that can bring a solution. At the same time, everyone knows that there is a discussion about ground forces. No one can pretend to be the discussion is not running. One of the biggest problems I see given such a situation is the danger that other countries in the area will be further involved in the conflict. We saw that a significant number of people yesterday demonstrated in Sofia – with a kind of Milosevic-friendly profile. I would like to ask what needs to be done by NATO in order to ensure close cooperation with Albania, Macedonia, Bulgaria and other countries in the region, in order to avoid others being further involved in the conflict, in a future situation where the war might be further escalated.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e226	It is possible that the Minister of Foreign Affairs should have answered that, and that I should not go into that problem based on the knowledge I have. In fact, I have faith that the Foreign Minister will deal with these questions. We have not discussed it so that I feel I can answer it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e233	Dag Danielsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e236	Is it not the case that such planning is clearly expressed, that we keep the possibility of entering with ground forces open, that we give signals that planning is being undertaken — that is, of course, a significant pressure on Milosevic — in order to get closer to a diplomatic solution?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e241	I've observed that it's a perfectly normal military thinking, and that military thinking like that. This is an operation that has been initiated as an air operation, and I registered so late as today that both the US President, the Secretary of State and the Minister of Defence excluded from going in with ground forces, and said that we now have to carry out the operation we have started, and complete it. However, this will certainly be a very important topic of discussion at the summit, where changes have now been made so that Kosovo is quite so broad on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e251	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e254	My question is also addressed to the Minister of Defence, whom I would like to join with his two colleagues in the 50th anniversary of NATO in Washington. Although the NRK was so unfine today to introduce the Norwegian Minister of Defence as Dag Jostein Fjærvoll, I expect that there are current runners who want to travel. I hope she uses the opportunity to recall Norway's historic role as a very loyal, strong and firm partner in NATO, and that it has always had a broad majority in the Stortinget. The same broad majority now support NATO's actions in Yugoslavia. I expect that if it comes on the agenda, the Minister of Defence and the other ministers will express support if you start planning – as I hope – the economic Marshall plan that is needed after the end of the war. It's just as important as the diplomatic trials and the war that's going on right now, and I'm counting on this to end. If the question of ground forces comes up in informal contexts, I expect the Minister of Defence to have a more offensive answer than she has given in today's Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e261	I think it is going to use ground forces, whether Norway has an opportunity to participate or not, is such a big change in what we have already politically debated, that then we will have to take a discussion that is quite fundamental in the Norwegian political environment and in the Government. For this, I believe, is a significant change in what has so far been Norway's contribution to this war.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e266	I agree with the Minister of Defence on this point, but it is not primarily in Norway that the material responsibility to contribute to such forces will rest. It is the powers of NATO that will have to contribute here. The role of Norway will be to support any such decision and to contribute in its own way and in its capacity. I expect that there will be no problem for the Minister of Defence to stress the Norwegian will in this way. It has its worrisome aspects, but unfortunately it is that because of the ethnic cleansing that Milosevic has carried out in its horrific way, the war has now made it more necessary to enter somehow than it was before the war started. Then we get to hope that the Minister of Defense is right that the air operations will succeed, and that ground operations will not be necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e273	If there is a discussion on ground forces at the NATO Summit, we know that 19 democratic countries must agree. There are discussions about this, and there are sometimes considerable disagreements in some political environments, among other things. in Germany, whether this is true. But if it comes to a discussion, we will of course report from the Norwegian side the concerns we have about the use of ground forces. What the conclusion of such a discussion will be, I can't say now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e278	There will be follow-up questions – Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e281	In a situation where Norway is actually at war and the Norwegian government is going to the meeting in NATO, it is difficult for the Stortinget to know what the Norwegian government is actually going to do there, other than to wait and see what the others are doing. I think it is alarming that, in that case, the Government has not consulted on policy initiatives to go in parallel with military initiatives, possibly stepping up or stepping down. Is it so to understand that the Norwegian Government has not discussed its positions before going to the summit – to which I also understand the Minister of Defence to belong – so that the military and political initiatives are fully separated and not as a whole in order to try to resolve the conflict?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e288	What the government is quite clear about, and what there's also been a discussion about here in the Storting, is how we're going to deal with the different elements of the strategic concept. There we have clear political positions, to which we have also received agreement in the Grand Duchy. As regards this summit, it has changed character, and it changes character almost from day to day. Kosovo is on the agenda, and the Norwegian Government has announced to the Prime Minister that, in addition to what we are doing now in Kosovo, it is important to focus on the role of Russia, on the role of the OSCE and on the role of the United Nations, while we know that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is active on behalf of the Norwegian Government in helping to find diplomatic solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e295	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e298	I will address my question to the Minister of Health. In Stortingen there has been a broad consensus about investing in the elderly and health. Many counties who are hospital owners and who are responsible for the ongoing hospital activity are struggling economically. The county authorities have planned their activities for 1999 on the basis of the proposals made in the State budget. In March this year, the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs decided to reduce the rates for outpatient activities by 4 pst. from 1 April. This will mean that county councils will reduce their income by several million dollars. Does the Council of State find it unfortunate to reduce transfers in the middle of a budgetary year, while requiring increased patient treatment and reduced waiting lists?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e305	It is true that in the case of outpatient rates in Norwegian hospitals, it has been necessary to make a downward adjustment. This is due to the fact that the growth of activity from 1998 to 1999 has been greater than foreseen at the time of the adoption of the budget. This is a budget-driven mechanism, so to keep the budgetary framework in this area, it has been a necessary step. However, this must be seen in the context of hospital financing, where the growth of activity has also been greater than originally planned. We will, on the part of the Government, return to the Grand Duchy in connection with the revised national budget, as we said when the budget was adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e311	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. Many municipalities are also struggling economically with the background to the wage settlement and the interest costs they had in 1998 without being compensated for. For example, the reduction which the Ministry of Health has now made in relation to the counties involves: that Nord-Trøndelag County loses 6-7 million. kr. in the current year, Hedmark County Municipality 4-5 million. SEK and Uppland County Municipality 6-8 million. kr. This money should have been used for patient treatment. The objective of increasing patient treatment will be difficult to achieve, as transfers will be greatly reduced during the operational year. My supplementary question to the Council of State will then be: What action will the Council of State take to prevent a reduction in patient treatment and further breaches of the waiting list guarantee?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e320	It is a comprehensive question that the representative of Skogholt is now asking. Let me answer briefly, as I have occasion here. The change in outpatient rates has been adopted to ensure that the budget decisions of the Grand Duchy relating to outpatient care can be complied with, i.e. respect of the budgetary framework. I would remind you that it has been an important prerequisite for the implementation of this budget line to seek strict budgetary discipline. Secondly, a number of measures are being implemented to stimulate increased patient treatment. The most important action is the implementation of input-driven funding. In my opinion, the increased emphasis placed on the response-driven part of hospital funding has led to increased activity both in 1998 and also in 1999.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e329	There will be follow-up questions – Asmund Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e332	An ever-increasing need for the use of healthcare means that we need to use our scarce resources wisely. We have to avoid deposits where we can treat in the daytime. We have approx. 600,000 hospitalisations and more than 3 million hospital leave-free treatments/operations. I am, like the representative of Skogholt, deeply concerned and surprised that the Minister of Health, by reducing the state's contribution to day-care activities, may help us to reduce the number of patients treated. In addition, the size has decided that all patients referred to hospitals should be entitled to have their disease assessed within 30 days, which requires increased capacity for day care and outpatients. How does the Minister of Health think that this assessment guarantee can be implemented when the hospital economy is weakened for day-to-day treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e337	Daily treatment is slightly more than outpatient treatment; there is also a different day treatment in hospitals than in outpatient clinics. I would remind you that in the context of the 1999 State budget, we have made changes to the structure of the rate, which means that there will be more equivalent funding between day-to-day treatment and in-house treatment – that is, there is a medical assessment that needs to be taken into account. In the last year, we have achieved a dramatic reduction in the number of breaches of the waiting list guarantee – a reduction of about 75 pst. I want to work hard to further improve this situation. In the case of the assessment guarantee, not only are outpatient clinics central to it, but also the private specialists and specialists with agreements with the county council.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e344	John I. Alvheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e347	There has been a cross-political agreement in this room to bet on health care. I must therefore say that I find it alarming when I hear that the department has reduced outpatient rates and thus also reduced the number of treated patients – without this being submitted to the Stortinget in any way. After all, it was possible to wait with this to the revised national budget and to submit it to the European Parliament for treatment — a decision, if any. I would strongly recommend that the Minister of Health address this matter in the revised national budget. The Contracting Party cannot at all support what has now been carried out by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e354	I take note of what the representative Alvheim is now saying about the attitude of the Progress Party. My responsibility in relation to a budgetary system must be to implement the measures necessary to comply with the budget decisions of the Grand Duchy. In this case, it has been necessary to adjust somewhat to the outpatient rates in order to do so. As far as hospital funding is concerned, the Government will return to it in the revised national budget. Of course, the Stortinget is free to address other aspects of hospital financing if it is desirable.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e363	Gunhild Eyering – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e366	I record that the Minister of Health repeatedly says that there has been a dramatic decrease in breaches of the waiting period guarantee. I would like to remind you that there has been a conversion of the criteria, which means that far fewer patients now receive such a guarantee. Does the Minister of Health consider it appropriate to advertise with a large decrease in the number of interruptions to the waiting period guarantee, when the criteria are completely changed and fewer patients receive such a guarantee?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e373	After all, the criteria now applicable to the waiting time guarantee were adopted under a worker party government on the basis of proposals from the then Danish Council of State Hernes. And that's the criteria that are now being applied. I've never hidden the fact that the numbers we see now have complex causes, but one of the reasons is that more people are being treated because we put more emphasis on more people getting help in financing. I don't think there's any doubt about that. In addition, it is important that we now have a better system of waiting lists; there are fewer errors in the management – it has been professionally worked to achieve a better consensus on the granting of a guarantee. And so it's the way, as the representative Eyeågen also points out, that the criteria themselves are actually changed by the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e381	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e384	I have the greatest understanding that the Minister of Defense is new in his business, but when Norway is at war, the Storting must be able to demand that the Government send government councils to the spontaneous questioning session that can answer the key questions that affect this war. I will therefore continue to ask – perhaps a little on the outskirts of the Minister of Defense: war is expensive – the very warfare costs a lot, the reception of refugees is going to cost a lot, and the humanitarian aid is going to cost a lot. There is then a fundamental question where this money is to be taken from. In the debate, it has emerged from the Right that the money should be taken from Africa and Asia. I know that in the departments, budgets are now being considerably vacuumed to find money for Kosovo. I would like to ask for a guarantee from the Government that we will not now take appropriations from other poor countries, from other areas of conflict, to find money for Kosovo. It would also be the safest way to lay the foundation for new conflicts, elsewhere on the globe, which we in turn would have to spend money on to solve.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e391	The government's efforts in Kosovo have several elements in them, including: It is promoted one kgl. Resolution on contributions to voluntary organisations through the U.D. There will also be someone who is about to receive refugees in Norway. The Ministry of Defence has expenditure on both the military action and a large part of the humanitarian effort. So the defence resources are used in this war. The government will therefore promote one kgl on Friday. the resolution addressing these problems in their entirety, and where we also answer the questions that Solheim is now asking.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e398	This is, of course, a major issue of a basic political approach. Now, as it looks, this is a conflict that can last a while, and that's not going to be resolved through a kgl. Resolution this week. I think almost everyone agrees that the big mistake made in relation to Kosovo was that Kosovo was forgotten every year. The entire attention of the Storting, media and international politicians was around Bosnia. Kosovo was totally in the shade, nor was any money spent on Kosovo. Then the war comes, and there will be great expenses both for warfare, for humanitarian efforts and for the reception of refugees. We must not repeat this error by choosing to cut the appropriations for, for example. Angola, Afghanistan and other areas of the globe, for spending money in Kosovo. It is central to clarify this when the main budgetary partners of the Government are in favour of such a solution, and when we know that many non-governmental organisations already feel that it is difficult to get money to areas other than Kosovo, as the situation is now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e403	I have the greatest respect for Solheim's commitment for a long time in relation to these problems – I just want to say that. In the government, of course, it has been hopeless to budget for what we are about to do. So we want to do one kilogram. The resolution comes back to the Storting in terms of how we're going to recover these expenses. I don't want to, and I can't, here today go into or describe this. I hear what Solheim says, and I take note of that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e410	There will be follow-up questions – Øystein Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e413	The Government has agreed on three different occasions with the Right and the Advance Party. Now I have noticed that the Right in front of its national meeting goes very clearly and says that all expenses associated with the Kosovo conflict have to be covered in crowns. I have a certain understanding that the Council of State can't say here and now how to cover these expenses. But what it could have been useful to confirm from the department, and which was also Erik Solheim's main point, is that that money should not be taken from the other aid budget, but that the money should be considered as such an extraordinary expense that the treasury should take the costs without going beyond it, for example. u-help to Nicaragua, u-help to Africa or the u-help budget in general. That question is absolutely crucial to clarify. So, of course, it's a question of how to cover this in general. And I understand that the Council of States must be a little restrained. But I give the Council one chance: does that mean that this money is not to be taken from the aid budget, but is to be taken from the general budget, or is it to reduce the state's surplus?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e422	This will be dealt with by Stortinget. It's possible that I refer to kgl. the resolution and the proposition when I'm not going to do it. It gets added to my inexperience. But this will be presented to the Stortinget for debate. We have, as I said, obviously not had the opportunity to budget what a war costs. We are committed to finding a cover that goes beyond what is budgeted as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e429	No pay - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e432	I share the questioner's assumption that the Government is a college. But I think it's driving it very far to ask the Minister of Defence how the Minister of Finance is going to solve his problems in maintaining the budgetary balance. I think there is also a slight peripheral approach to the difficult challenges facing both the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister in the crisis situation we are in. I am more concerned about getting the Minister of Defense to confirm that there is such coordination between these three in today's government, and that the signals given by the Prime Minister are quite unambiguous, both in the spontaneous question hour a week ago and in several interviews recently on Norway's position on the question of the continuation of the operation by any ground forces, also the Government's overall view, and also the Minister of Defence's view.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e437	The President would point out that polemics with previous respondents should not occur.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e441	It is quite obvious that we are coordinating ourselves in the Government, that there is coordination between the ministers concerned, both the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Defence and also the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs and Justice. The Prime Minister's statement is, of course, also valid for the other ministers on this point, including with regard to ground forces. Both the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Prime Minister and I have stated that we are very sceptical about the use of ground forces.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e446	There will be follow-up questions – Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e449	I think it is quite natural that, in addition to answering very specific questions, the state councils can also answer fundamental questions that the government has on the most relevant issues, and in particular when one of the questions about containment is also about defence expenditure. We are aware that the war in Kosovo and Yugoslavia imposes normal expenditure on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also extraordinary expenditure on defence. It is our principle that expenditure incurred as a result of this should not be covered within the ordinary budgetary framework of these departments. It is not possible to change a budget in the middle of a year. I would like confirmation from the Minister of Defence that expenditure resulting from the events in Kosovo will not affect ordinary budget lines in the draft appropriations presented by the Government on Friday.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e456	Of course, it has not been possible to avoid the clear signals that parties in this room have given – if I am talking about my own department – that such tasks should be covered outside the defence framework. It's clear. Then, of course, the other expenditure will also have to be coordinated by the Minister of Finance first and foremost, and then a decision will have to be taken by the Government. But, as I said, it's clear that the expenditure now incurred by all these departments is impossible to cover within the limits that they now have.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e461	Grethe G. Fossum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e464	Let me say that war costs money. It costs money to bomb, but most of the money should be used to help people who have problems. I have delighted to see that the Government wants to take 6,000 refugees to Norway from Kosovo. But I'm worried that the government doesn't do it as quickly as possible. Now, as I see it, it's going to take 50 refugees each time. It's cheaper and better for the refugees to get out of the area. My question to the Council of State is: why will the Government only take 50 refugees each time, instead of making it effective, get the 6,000 refugees to Norway as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e471	Now both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs were down in the area this weekend and looking at the conditions, and they want to maintain air bridges to Norway. I understood the message that came today, as – it is possible I haven't seen it thoroughly enough – that it was about taking 50 refugees out of Albania at a time, i.e. using this B-130 aircraft that the Defense has made available, and that it was the quota of 50 that had now changed, and not taking 50 at a time to Norway. But it is possible that I am not quite aware that this is the same question that Fossum is asking, as I am now answering.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e478	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e481	My question also goes to the Minister of Defence. What does the Ministry do to ensure adequate access of contract staff to service in Norwegian forces abroad? I think it must be possible to have a system that will give us more predictability as to which forces can be disposed of.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e488	There are two things I have to answer here. One concerns the personnel included in the specific agreement applicable to the provision of services in such situations. There we have an agreement valid until 31 December 1999, and it is normally negotiated between the employer and the employee. In addition, we have a productivity agreement that applies to parts of this staff, and we have negotiated a salary to participate in these operations that should be accepted by both parties. In addition, it is just before the Government finalises a notice on military international operations – now I am thinking of a little longer term – where we address this on a broad basis with the contractual periods, a review of the contractual periods, economic incentives and other types of measures that we believe should move in a direction where we have more opportunity than now to fulfil, for example. the IRF ambitions on the measurement numbers that we've set up. It will come to Stortinget in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e495	It is good to hear that the Department and the Council of State are now taking these issues seriously. In fact, there has been a tendency — and some people use stronger words than others — for contracts to be negotiated, for example. ships are on their way to the sea towards possible missions, and that is a poor starting point for negotiations. Of course, in order to inspire the willingness of personnel, several things can be done, and the Council of State here has suggested that there are things going on. For example, the Council of State may: think of a system where willingness to contract should be honoured as a career?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e501	It's hard to answer the kick. But the thing is, here we have personnel both from the Air Force, from the Marine and, to a large extent, from the Army, and it's our army personnel who make up the largest quota in what we use in such operations. It is important, then, that we get a system that doesn't lead to too many differences between groups, so that in-house it becomes a problem to meet the needs we have. I can imagine that we can assess it, but I can't now say anything but that I'm going to take it with me as a good idea from the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e506	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e509	I also have a question for the Minister of Defence. In the midst of this tragic situation in Kosovo, it may seem strange to raise questions about the construction of MTBs. But the situation is that Kværner Mandal has launched the first of the eight MTBs and depends on the fact that during the autumn a decision on further construction is taken, otherwise the entire yard can be laid down. The defense claims that it can only give notice of further construction in 15 months. My question is: does the Minister of Defense think it is possible to obtain a test result from the first MTB this fall?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e516	I don't think my faith should be decisive in this matter, because here we must listen to the military demands, and I have, like the representative, heard from the Defense that they actually need 15 months to test out this ship. That is the information I have now received. It is clear that it is possible to investigate whether this is an absolute one, but that is also the only thing I can do.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e521	I agree with the Minister of Defence. I think whatever you do here, it could be wrong, because it's spent 200-300 million. kr in development costs and competence building. If the harvest does not start, all of this may be lost. In 15 months, when the test result, if any, is good, there is no authority to build these boats. Is it economically sensible not to build now, and does the Government have a strategy for building MTBs? What, if any, is the strategy for the enterprises in Mandal and Kongsberg?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e526	This is a prototype. Many calculations can be made, but it is clear that it is also important to clarify how a prototype works in all ways – not least in bad weather in the case of this type of vessel – before starting a production. We also have to take into account the time needed for this test. But as I said, if this can take 15 months or a little less time, I can investigate, but at least I am uncertain – as we have now – whether it can be done as quickly as the representative here suggests.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e531	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e534	I have a question for the Minister of Health. We all agree that abortion is an emergency solution, and that it is desirable to reduce the number of abortions. I also hope that we agree that the pill can be an important tool to prevent unwanted pregnancy. A few years ago, the number of abortions in this country rose because what I wanted to call a scare campaign against a particular pill, which was actually the world's most used pill, and that led to a general fear of using pills. Now it turns out that there is evidence that this fear was completely unfounded. According to the Evening Post today, it is now clear that this drug had no greater side effects than the others. My question to the Council of State is therefore: Does he agree that it was unfortunate that the Norwegian authorities and Norwegian politicians contributed to creating uncertainty about the use of the pill and actually this indirect contribution to increasing the number of abortions?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e543	As can be seen from today’s Aftenposten survey, the Norwegian authorities restricted the use of the Marvelon p-pillar in 1995. The UK and German health authorities also carried out similar tightening and in Norway this meant that for new users it was recommended that this medicinal product should not be a first-choice medicinal product. Large media expansions also led many people who had used this medicine for a short or longer time, without noticing side effects, to stop using it. Since 1995, there has been better evidence, and some of the suspicions of side effects that one had at the time have been checked out. Therefore, it is quite natural for Norwegian health authorities, through Staten Pharmacovigilance, to now reconsider the use of this product. It is in this context that the Agency has applied to the State Medicines Control Authority for an extended use, as it had before 1995. For Staten Pharmacovigilance, such re-evaluation of Marvelon based on new and improved evidence would imply an almost full efficacy and safety assessment as in an application for marketing a new medicinal product in Norway. The SLK is working on the matter with a view to adopting a decision during the month of July. When it comes to the question of whether it was right or not to make these changes to the 1995 guidelines, I will not, at this point, submit myself to any judge as to what happened then. But I fully agree with the representative, Høegh, that it is important to work actively to reduce the number of abortions. The government has just adopted a new action plan to prevent unwanted pregnancy and abortion, and in this context the availability of contraceptives is a key instrument.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e552	I am pleased that the Council of State can provide the information that is now available, and that it agrees that the documentation that was believed to have been available many years ago was actually not correct. It would be very serious if the world's most used pill were to be obsessed with such serious side effects and the question of blood clots, as it was said. But I hope we can draw the lesson from this that you don't rely on unpublished data -- because that's actually what it was -- in a horror campaign against one particular drug, which gets effects that go far beyond what it turns out to be the basis for now, and that you don't rely on unpublished rumors and data. There must be a clear direction for public authorities – it should also be for people here in the Chamber, but at least for public authorities – not to change the policy and create a fear based on unpublished data, which then turns out to be wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e559	Again: I do not want to go into a polemics in relation to the assessment that took place in 1995. Until then, I have not gone into this matter thoroughly enough. As a general rule, there may be a question of the extent to which an emphasis should be placed on precautionary principles in an assessment of such a nature when fundamental questions of efficacy, safety and soundness are raised. However, what I fully agree with the representative, Mr Høegh, is that the evaluation of medicinal products by the authorities should be based on a solid foundation where the efficacy and safety are demonstrated on scientific premises.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e567	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e570	This question is for the Minister of Health. In a recent press release from the National Medical Council, it is reported that about 800 medical positions stand unoccupied in public health, and in parts of West Norway, Middle Norway and North Norway there are between 15 and 20 pst. of the vacant posts. Almost half, i.e. approx. 50 pst., by private specialists, has their work in Oslo and Akershus, while a county such as More and Romsdal has 2 pst. by the same specialists. These two conditions, many of which are available to doctors in public positions and a build-up of private practitioners in certain geographical areas, mean that there is a formidable imbalance in medical coverage, where District Norway is in poor condition. What can the Minister of Health expect us to do to improve the geographical distribution of private medical specialists?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e579	There are three types of measures taken by the Government to improve the imbalance in the medical coverage situation in general in the UK. So the first thing to do is to help educate more people, that the pie that's going to be distributed gets bigger. This has been done over several years, and the last harvest has started the largest coal of the time with medical students in Norway, as well as the places we buy abroad and those who study abroad on their own. The second is to ensure better control of the establishment of new medical positions through the new legislation for the distribution of medicinal products, of which the national Council is part. The National Council has recommended to the Ministry that new medical positions should be set up in 1999 to a very limited extent, and priority should be given to psychiatry, cancer and general medical services in the context of the fixed medical scheme. The third is measures aimed at stimulating both the establishment of district municipalities and the provision of doctors who are in district municipalities today, the possibility of continuing training and the possibility of simpler watch arrangements, making it more attractive and less burdensome to be a doctor in district municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e590	I have to try to connect this answer to what the Minister of Health had to say in a previous answer. I noticed that the Minister of Health wanted to be able to use private doctors in an attempt to reduce waiting lists. That's okay, but it must mean that the private practitioners must be fairly equally distributed throughout the country, otherwise this will not work. And a not insignificant part of the private-practitioner drives public money with significant operating grants. Then I have to ask the Minister of Health again, because I don't think I got a very relevant answer to what I asked: does the Minister of Health see any possibility of using e.g. the National Council on the regulation of the private medical market, so that we get a better distribution of the total number of doctors we have in Norway – the public and those who run on public account with operating grants?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e599	In the incentives I mentioned, there are also opportunities for further training of doctors in the districts and on the basis of several specialists linked to district municipalities. As far as regulation itself is concerned, we have implemented, as the Stortinget has decided, a new policy of agreement for medical specialists, which involves significantly greater public governance with the specialist health service outside the institution. There is not necessarily in the extension of it an opportunity to allocate already existing resources in the specialist health services outside the institution in a geographically better way, but there are issues that I think it is natural that the national council should be able to discuss further.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e606	The last main question is from Steinar Bastesen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e609	I have a question for the Minister of Fisheries. During Lofotmessa now recently, Kjell Nedreaas gave talks at the Marine Research Institute. The spawning stock for cod, as shown in the marine research models, shall be about 500000 tonnes. Measurements now in winter show that there are probably only 140000 tonnes. Obviously, the models you're using are insecure. The only sure thing about it as a sheep from the Marine Research Institute is that everything is insecure. What the growth of marine mammals means is also not included in the models. I therefore have this question to the Minister for Fisheries: what does he intend to do to improve the models? Another thing that also emerged was that the decline of the one-year-olds is fatal in the Barents Sea, as well as by the two- and three-year-olds. What are you going to do to get better at this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e620	There is no doubt that the development of cod stocks has been negative and that there may be grounds for concern. The combined management of Norway and Russia has been based on the advice provided by marine scientists’ stock assessments and the advice provided by the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea, ICES. There have been many statements by some researchers during the winter, that's right, and with very negative signs. What we as administrative authorities have to deal with is the advice given by the Marine Research Institute in Bergen, which is to be dealt with through ICES. We have suggested that the Institute for the Exploration of the Sea should provide information to the Department in the near future after the research material, which has been obtained through the fall of winter, has been processed. What is clear so far is that the crime material has not been fully processed and run on a model basis, so that we await the report that the Marine Research Institute is going to give us. Otherwise, it may not be possible to expect an ICES opinion from the material presented at an earlier date than the normal procedure, namely that it will come to the harvest. I see no reason – with the evolution of fishing that has taken place – to make panic-carded decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e627	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I agree that we must not lose our heads and make panic-carded decisions. But there's a giant fish on small fish just above the minimum. We know that the small fish stock in the Barents Sea is greatly reduced. We're going to fish down to 700 grams of weeded weight, which is the size of a trout, and then there's a danger. I am aware that there are closed large areas outside Finnmark at the moment. We have also had a large, uncontrolled fishing of foreign trawlers, especially of Icelandics, in the Barents Sea, which have probably contributed to the situation we have today. The Government has now signed an agreement with the Icelandics. Another thing I think could have been done is generally to increase the minimum size of cod – temporarily at least. Could there be one thing to think about for the Council of State? Does the Council of State think that the agreement with Icelanders is going to improve or exacerbate the situation we now have?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e636	Let me just say briefly, within the limited timescale I have, that the agreement with Iceland means that we now have an agreement with all the significant fishing nations in the north-east Atlantic that you can see fishing in the Barents Sea, i.e. in the Smutthole. In this way, we consider the agreement with Iceland to be very positive given the situation that we have a total regulation of fishing in the Barents Sea. In the case of fishing, Norway has a minimum cod measure of five centimetres larger than the Russian one. It is unlikely that Norway will continue to increase its minimum level of protection for small cod. Probably the international fishing in the Barents Sea will be moved to the Russian zone, and I don't think that will serve the purpose, namely the protection of young fish; on the contrary, it can be a bear service for the entire regime. Let me just stress that we have a minimum measure of cod, and that the fishing that is going on is happening within the regulations above the minimum set. [[President clubs]] That's the most important thing we think we need to have control of. [[President clubs]] Otherwise there's no new situation that we fish fish of that size in the Barents Sea.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e645	: Number has changed. The time for the oral question procedure is now also over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e659	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: 10 minutes to the working party and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. Furthermore, the President will suggest that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e668	Inner. S. No 137 is based on Ot.prp. No 64 for 1989-90, where the Grand Duchy opened the procedure for the award of national road haulage grants. The tender experiment was launched in 1995 with four ferries. A subsequent research report shows that the operating costs of the first four connections offered decreased by 10-15 p.m. and the need for grants was reduced by a total of 23 p.m.. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the SV and the Left, refer to Innst. S. No 251 for 1996-97, where the majority first wanted to decide on the possible extension of the use of tenders in the national road transport operation until evaluation of the test scheme exists. That majority therefore endorses the proposal in Document No. 8:24 on the outsourcing of the national road haulage network is rejected. The Party of Progress is of the opinion that all ferry operations should be tendered as soon as possible. Getting tenders is something that is normal in most other areas of society, so for the Progress Party it is strange that this particular sector should be protected. You don't even want to continue with something that has already proved to be very favorable! So when does the department intend to make an evaluation of these trials? The rules came in 1976, the committee opened for limited procedures in the Inst. O. No 82 for 1990-91, and at the same time the majority asked the Ministry to return to the Stortinget. The government has announced an evaluation, but I must point out that I really think it will take a long time. Perhaps you don't like the good result, because still bids are a lead for some socialists. According to Nordlandsforschung, there have been several take-offs and better frequencies, it is open night, new ferries, increased capacity, reduced operating costs by 10-15 pst, and the grant has been reduced by 23 pst. If we assume the same effect, the use of tenders for the entire route on the Coastal Route will increase the cost to users of a total of 53 million. kr. It's a cost-benefit of 2.2, and it's rare that you have a traffic. Thus, despite these very good results, saving money or helping to achieve more things in the transport sector remains a challenge. Here there is a variety of possibilities! I will then be able to put forward the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e689	Thore Aksel Nistad has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e692	Document No The 8-proposal we are considering today is on the full competitive edge of the national road haulage network. And, as the rapporteur stated, the majority of the Committee would expect to decide on this until the evaluation report on the four links put forward in the tender is available, and therefore recommends that Document No. The 8 proposal is rejected. Let me first say that Norway is and in the foreseeable future becomes a holiday country. This has a clear connection with, among other things. Our topography, with fjords going into our country like wedges. Nor shall one be a great fortune-teller in order to be able to determine now that the time of the large holiday-resolution projects is over. Therefore, it is important that we have a discussion about the ferry operation and not least about the renewal of the ferry fleet. I'll be more than happy to be on this when all the cards are on the table. Over the years, there has been and is still a discussion about whether we should consider the ferries as a means of transport or as part of the road system. This is a major and in many ways difficult debate, with significant economic consequences for the road budget, and a debate that I think we will certainly come back to on a later occasion. When we dealt with the changes in the Transport Act in 1991, including, inter alia: the use of tenders in national road ferries, the Workers' Party did not oppose the use of tenders for reasons of principle. However, we felt that there was considerable uncertainty about important issues, such as: the safety of our ferries and the offer of the ferry operation. Therefore, we opened limited procedures for the use of grants. There is no doubt that the safety of ferry operations is good, and so it must be in the future. When we focus today as strongly as we do on safety along our roads, including: zero vision, this must also include the ferry operation. In addition to safety, we are set to provide a ferry that is such that the availability and level of service are satisfactory for as much as possible. In 1990, the framework grant scheme was put into operation in the national road haulage sector, and the transition from balancing to framework grants appears to provide more efficient operation and better provision. The majority therefore ask that this also be emphasised in the evaluation of the trials on bids in the ferries. I would like to stress that this should not be at the expense of either security or offer, and that the crew on board must be on board to such an extent that this is ensured regardless of the device chosen in connection with the award of grants to the ferry operation. So finally, a few comments in relation to the comments of the Party of Advancement and the Right: in the comments, there will be, among other things. made a large number of that if we had used tenders, we could have used the freed resources to strengthen the ferries. I would like to remind these parties of what has happened in the efficiency process for bus operations, namely that the efficiency gain achieved for public busses has been drawn in favour of the state fund. I cannot recall that neither the Progress Party nor the Right, through the annual budgetary procedures of the 1990s, has proposed that this benefit should go back to public transport in order to strengthen and develop it. When the rapporteur informs us that we do not like tenders, it is not correct, but in relation to the specific elements that I had in mind about safety, we will wait to see the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e713	It is very disappointing to note that a majority here in Stortinget will not improve Coast Norway's ferry services. That is what is real when the majority rejects the use of tenders for the national road ferry services. We who come from coastal areas know all the importance of improved ferry services for housing, employment and value creation. During the last years of the debate on the budget for transport, there has been no majority in favour of increasing the allocation of national road ferries, and there is little evidence that the forthcoming budget will provide room for increased appropriations. That is why we depend on getting more out of the resources that go to the ferry sector, and therefore also on tendering. As can be seen from the proposal, the functioning of the competitive environment has been demonstrated. At the first four interconnections, which were put up for tender in 1995, operating costs fell by 10-15 p.m. and the demand for grants was reduced by 23 p.m., which has been mentioned. And, as has also been said, Nordic research has demonstrated that there are considerable savings to be made in the use of tenders – savings that should be used to improve capacity and frequency. The counties of the South and Western countries have made a real effort to improve the holiday offer, in particular the holiday offer on the coastal line. These have proposed the introduction of night departures and half-hour departures on the ferry service of this route. In order to achieve this, they want to make use of tenders, and it is interesting that behind this proposal there are county politicians from the centre parties and the Workers' Party. I would like answers from these parties as to whether it is that the Right proposes that all national roads should be offered, which is the problem. If that is the case, of course, the Right will not oppose the gradual phase-in of tenders. By restoring the savings to the national road transport network, the quality of the national road transport service can be significantly improved. As I said, capacity can be increased, and there may be more frequent take-offs. It is important to improve the emergence in Coast Norway. The question is how much evidence is needed for the majority to recognize the district enemy in its position. If it had been the bulk of the population it would have gone over, it might have been okay. What is particularly outrageous is the fact that it affects the settlement and jobs along the coast. It is difficult to see that the central government has taken new initiatives since it took place in the Ministry of Transport. It continues traditional social-democratic policies, which are more concerned with public employment than with addressing the challenges facing Coast-Norway and business. This is disappointing by a government based on parties flying the regional political flag. No, the center parties seem to be complying with their two v's: assessment and continuation. Action seems to allow the degrees to wait, or almost to be a foreign word. Both in the past and in the future, the majority of the population will be responsible for increased costs incurred by the companies and residents of Coast Norway by preventing the use of tenders in the ferry sector. And I ask myself, who is it essentially we represent? Are there the users, the voters, the people or the district, or are there maybe established companies and institutions that are in focus? To this end, the right is not willing to plough back savings in the transport sector, and that was the case with the bus sector, this is not correct, and we can elaborate on that in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e736	For the coastal districts of the country, ferries are an important part of the trade. This applies to ferries on both tribal, national and county roads. For those who rely on a ferry to come to the centre with important services, jobs or cultural services, ferry costs contribute to increasing the cost of living in coastal areas. For business, large transport costs can be highly decisive for the profitability of enterprises. Yes, difficult and expensive transport can be the direct reason why companies that do not pick up their raw material directly from the coastal districts do not establish or move from there. I therefore believe that it is important for busses and businesses along the coast that the ferry costs are as low as possible. The centre party has previously been opening up to bids in the ferry sector. We have also said in the past that we do not have a fundamental objection to the right to use the principle of supply. However, we have also made a number of comments on the fact that we will first consider an extension of the supply in the national road haulage sector when an evaluation report on the pilot scheme is available. And what I mean is a reasonable position to take in such a case. As the department writes in the letter to the committee, I expect the evaluation report to be clear in the first autumn. When the evaluation report is so short, I see it as natural to wait for it before proceeding with a new national road ferry service. Document No 8:24 contains a proposal to draw up proposals to launch the national road haulage network. This proposal is very open and comprehensive because it applies to the national road haulage network in general. And as an answer to Sverre J. Hoddevik, who was asking whether this is what has been decided that one cannot go in and support the proposal, I would say that this is a side to the proposal that needs to be reconsidered. As far as I know, the currently available ferry service has produced satisfactory results in reducing costs. But these ferry connections are connected to relatively high traffic, and can be attractive in that way to operate on demand. If all national road ferry services are to be offered, as suggested in Document No.8:24, one will see that there will be many connections that do not have as much traffic and therefore will probably not be as attractive as the four currently available. If so, who should drive these? Should the public operate those that others do not want to operate? Let us wait for the evaluation report and evaluate the pilot projects being carried out. Then we have a better basis for discussing what will happen next. Then maybe we can also get some of the answers that we're looking for, answers that we might today just know, but that we can't say anything for sure. Then we will also have a better basis for assessing what Ola Røtweg was about, which we must not forget in this context, that is, the question of security.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e753	We are all engaged in the national road haulage network because they are an important part of our infrastructure, and because the ferries are necessary for employment and housing in Coastal Norway. Employment and housing in Coast Norway are also required. My approach to the matter of national road haulage links will not be whether or not they will be put off for competition, but will have to be different. It is based on an article in Today's Business on 15 April, where it appears that four out of five ferries are being built abroad. For most of us, this seems strange and completely unnecessary, because we have both technology and professionals to carry out missions seams at our shipyards. Both the Workers' Party and the Government want to build more national roads, both because there is a need for them, and because saving the yard industry is important. In recent years, the renewal of ferries has been very low, but several ferries have been built on land such as the Netherlands. Spain and Poland. State Councillor Lars Sponheim has recently announced that the Government considers that there is a need for improved ferry construction and that it will take action in the revised national budget. I have also read with interest the Sunnmørspost, where I have come to understand that there can also be a bright spot in the Minister for Transport Dag Jostein Fjærvoll's very tight budget for transport, and that this can be a framework for new ferries. The combination of crisis in the yard industry and an alarming need for the renewal of the ferry fleet can lead to an increased framework for the renewal of the ferry fleet, according to the Sunnmørspost. I hope I can confirm this from the Council of State. The Working Party will support such a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e764	I have a great deal of understanding that the Right, with the agreement of the Progress Party, calls for a general right to use tenders in the national road ferry service, as these were the views of those parties also in the examination of the legislative proposal on tenders in 1991. However, in the examination of the legislative proposal, the majority of the population considered that there was such a degree of uncertainty in the use of tenders for ferry services that it was only opened for sample schemes with tenders as a preliminary solution. Among other things, shown that the different costs of capital may constitute a competitive advantage to a far greater extent than in bus and coach operations. In contrast to bus operations, there is also no surplus of available material in the ferries market. The ongoing evaluation in the Directorate-General for Roads of the experience of the first sample schemes with tenders will provide an important basis for any subsequent proposal on free access to bids in the ferries sector. The evaluation is expected to be completed in the autumn and, of course, the Stortinget will be properly informed when it is available. The government has to assess whether this evaluation provides a basis for further action in response to tenders and, where appropriate, in what form. Furthermore, it has not been given that the evaluation of the test systems in question responds to all the uncertainties inherent in a tendering procedure in this area, which led the majority of the population in 1991 to put the brake on a general opening for the use of tenders. I have noticed that the Right Party and the Advance Party note the long time that has passed since Stortinget treated Innst. O. No 82 for 1990-91 concerning the introduction of a law on the authorisation of the use of tenders in local scheduled service. To say that the law on tenders came shortly before the EEA procedure started. There was then justified doubt as to whether such a voluntary tendering system was compatible with the EEA Agreement. Consequently, the Act and the Regulation were not implemented until 15 April 1994. The first ferry sections were announced on a trial-based invitation to tender late 1995. Several of these conditional constructions of new ferries and consequently started operations in 1997. Two new connections were launched in 1997, including new ones. The 1997 bidding round will require a start-up 1.1. 2000. The evaluation also requires experience in the operational phase, and it is therefore not unnatural that this takes time. Moreover, the size is based on the progress made in the bids for national road ferries in the annual budget proposals. In conclusion, I would like to say that there is hardly any political disagreement in the objective of making the best possible provision for a good ferry service in Coast Norway, while at the same time wanting to achieve this with the most effective use of public funds allocated to the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e779	The speakers who have the floor hereafter have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e782	It is not difficult to agree with the representative, Røtvej, that Norway will be a holiday country for years to come. But I thought the same representative took a bit of a hard time, and I hope he doesn't mean it literally on behalf of the Workers' Party when he says that the big holiday settlement project's time is over. I would like to remind you that here are several large projects that have come a long way, both in my own country and many other places in the country, so I hope they can at least give it the opening that there will be room for some of them. There were also joyous things in the representative Røtweg said, although he does not want to be on our proposal today. As far as I can see, he said that he would be more than happy to assess this when all the cards are on the table. Now we've been through a very long process, as others have commented, in this matter. We've had a pretty good trial period, and we've had a very positive evaluation so far as what's happened in the trial period. And then the question is, what time are we going to take the consequences of this and go out with a much wider offer to offer a lot more distances? Several people have quite rightly pointed to the need for renewal of the ferry fleet. But then there has to be reason to point out that we're going to get a proper renewal process, at least there has to be a few important framework conditions on the table, that's who's going to drive these ferries in the super coded future. Many of these will, unfortunately, be in a state where the Storing decides whether or not to release more. We can't build a ferry without a ferry stretch to go on with it. Then the representative Ringstad stated that it is not a big deal to offer attractive ferry routes, but that it is worse on the less attractive ones. I will deal with that most strongly, because there are questions here about what payment you get and how effective you can do. One million savings may not be that much, but one million is, after all, a million. And if we can save on small sections, we can get a couple of extra take-offs on these small sections, it means a lot too many. I've been addicted to commuting a little ferry myself, and I can assure you that an extra departure in the evening, an extra in the morning, a slightly better offer means a lot to us and to the many who depend on these ferries.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e796	The arguments that we have heard here today from both the centre parties and the Workers' Party, I know well from before. In my own home country, Oppland, I have had a long-standing fight before I finally got to a trial project for bids in transportation. After having been fully trained for several years, there was finally a bid for the city buses in Lillehammer, and they were put out for five years. The result was formidable. The county saved 4 million. kr per. years, and there were funds that we could put into other areas within transportation in the county. Traffic increased so that we had to install more buses, and the number of jobs increased. It was contrary to what the trade union had predicted. The urban buses that were deployed were all new, and they had the strictest emission rules, the EURO II requirements. But the results were so positive that when I suggested something similar on Gjøvik, the answer was no for many years. Of course, good results and old progress party proposals must be carefully considered. The prize has been withdrawn from the state treasury, says the Workers' Party representative, Røtvej. Yes, perhaps in his state, for they probably went to the efficiency agreement, while in Lillehammer we went to the tender. At Gjøvik we tried with what Røtweg wanted, namely an efficiency agreement, but that was bad. There was a really bad store, so now you have suddenly turned around, and now you also want to put public transport in Gjøvik on offer. So the representative from the Central Party is wondering who's going to drive a ferry on the bad routes where there's no traffic. But dear, it's just to put it on the offer, and then it's the one that takes the least subsidies, that's allowed to run the route. That's the exact same thing we do in air transport. After all, the least-subsidized person wins, and Remoe has won a lot of distances. They'll get 160 million. kr to drive. Why, then, should it be so strange that there should be a different practice in the area of ferries than there is in other areas of transport? There's formidable money to save in this area, and in Uppland we've kind of split the winnings. Something has been confiscated by the state treasury, which everyone knows, but there are many routes in pig-grown strips in Uppland that today would not have existed if they had not had this money from the bid on Lillehammer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e807	Only a few comments at the end for me. When I say that the time of the major holiday redemption projects may be over, my thoughts will probably go the same way as I see the government recommending for the coming period. But one thing I have to say from the Labour Party's side, and that is that the projects that have been adopted are going to be completed. When we dealt with this in 1991 with the principle of tenders, which I had in mind in my main post, there was some uncertainty about different elements in relation to the use of tenders. Based, inter alia, on: the fact that we have a big difference in age composition in the ferry fleet and that we have a difference in depreciation time and in actual life for the ferries, we may have felt an uncertainty about whether old ferries would have a competitive advantage over new ferries. Of course, this is of great importance for security and supply. I have to point out once again that the Workers' Party said in 1991, and now also says, for reasons of principle, that we do not oppose the use of tenders. But we want to get more items lit than just to measure this in dollars and cents, and then it's going on security and offer. When we get the evaluation report that the Council of State informs will arrive at Stortinget in an appropriate way, we should be more than happy to participate in a thorough debate on these issues. I would like to say to the representative, Mr Nistad, that what I referred to was that which goes over the budget of the Ministry of Local Affairs, that is, over the framework that goes to the county council for grants to public transport. I cannot recall the fact that the Progress Party has proposed that this benefit should fall to the counties and go to a strengthening of public transport. What I have registered is that the Socialist Left Party has promoted it as a proposal, and perhaps also the Center Party as they did not join the Government. I am also looking to make the best possible use of the transport heads, and that we get the greatest possible benefit from the funds we use. And when you get a benefit from the efficiency improvement, as in public transport, it should of course go to the strengthening of, among other things. public transport.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e820	We have not voted to change any of these frames. The frames are smaller – but they're smaller for all states, that's equal for everyone. We believe that this is the best way to force the county to tender. Put down the frames, because there are huge savings in bids around. That's what I showed you earlier, that just at Lillehammer, we had a saving of $4 million. kr. It's clear that some of this goes into the state. But even if it hadn't, as the representative of Røtvej probably has it in his county, they're losing all the money, and then they're exacerbating the conditions of public transport in their own state. And then the representative of the Workers' Party says that old ferries have a competitive advantage, but that goes for security. I met exactly the same thing when we were going to put a bus on offer at Lillehammer. Then it was those who had old buses, who wanted to win, and then the road safety was bad. But those are the ones who put out the offer, who decide how it should be, and we made so tough demands on the buses that it was the latest buses that got to run, the ones with the least emissions, the EURO II requirements, and the best security, as stated in the tender papers. And that's how you can do it in multiple ways. That's how you do it when it comes to planes and buses, so why is it so weird when it comes to ferries? I've always said that it's the old ferries that are going out, and you don't do that in tender. You don't do that when you're building a building. They also said that the building should not be bad.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e827	It's a little strange to hear that when you mention the word tender, it's kind of scary, it's something you have to be careful about, because of course it gets worse than the public itself can do. The representative of Ola Røtvej was also sure of that in relation to tenders. Security has to do with the content of the contract. The contract shall contain what is required for safety, the number of departures and the type of service required. What is to be paid for the service is, of course, up to the company which provides these services and which, according to specification, makes it a reasonable amount of money. This also applies when you talk about profitable and unprofitable ferry routes. It is clear that you want a ferry section, it will be the government that will ensure that payment follows for that service. Obviously, less is provided for a profitable route than for one that is more unprofitable. I therefore cannot, with my best will, see the problem by revealing ferry routes and other things on offer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e838	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 2815]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e852	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no chance of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e861	Today, when the Stortinge treats the business of Posten Norge BA, the consensus in postal policy is perhaps the most perceptive. A rather brief review of the story will tell us that there have been dramatic discussions on Norwegian postal policy in this room. One can establish that there is no disagreement between the centre and the Workers' Party in this case. In 1995, it must have been. And I must say that I enjoy quoting from an interview in the Nation on 3 January 1995 with Anne Enger Lahnstein, where she says: ‘The main lines of Norwegian policy are now running between Ap and Sp’ – see in areas such as the Posten. The Labour Party then got the hat fit in that debate on the restructuring of the Post. It is therefore a little special to record that the postal policy of the Workers' Party is the postal policy that the central government has pursued and that, after all, turns out to be quite as successful. However, post offices are still being closed in Norway. In 1998, 232 post offices were closed, and the year before, i.e. in 1997, 258 post offices were closed. This has happened without the Center Party or the Government having made any proposal that would prevent this. The political basis of the central government is to read that a weakened postal service cannot be accepted. Then it must mean that the government does not view these closures as a weakened postal service. I therefore believe that the Stortinget is pleased to note that the Post Office has largely made clear the extensive change it has undergone. And the most important thing: most people are, after all, satisfied with the Post. This is not how to understand and perceive that the Committee does not see that the Post Norway BA is facing major future challenges, both in the short and longer term. It should be mentioned that the Post is challenged in a number of areas. Technological developments, changing customer requirements, increasing competition and increased internationalisation are part of this picture. As regards the main challenges of the Post, it will be clear from the point of view of the Committee. The majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre, will place great emphasis on one of the main challenges for the Post will be to address the societal challenges in a good and effective way. It should be mentioned that there is a need to improve the quality of transmissions. The majority assume that the Ministry will follow the development of the competitive postal services market in the tasks entrusted to it. The majority agree with the Ministry that, as long as the requirements of social and service obligations are met, the Post must have a high degree of freedom to develop its service provision. But our answer is not to convert Poste Norway BA into a limited liability company. The view of the Workers' Party is that social responsibility for postal services is best taken care of by the ownership of the State. We're pretty suspicious about transforming into AS, and it has to be admitted that the Workers' Party then sees the next move, which could be privatisation. We're against that. That is also the majority against. And that's to hope that the center parties don't go in the direction indicated by the Right and the Advance Party here. The majority are very concerned that the Post should have a transparent and verifiable organisational structure. We therefore assume that the fragmentation or separation of basic services in the companies and significant support functions cannot be carried out without prior treatment in the Stortinget. The Committee is aware that, in line with the intentions underlying the company establishment, the Post Board has placed great emphasis on the development of an organisation and governance model that improves the ability to manage and follow up the business. The Committee is aware that major changes have taken place between 1996 and 1998 in the postal despatch network and that this work continues. Furthermore, we have noticed that this adopted conversion of postal distribution services towards 2003 will affect the employment situation of more than 5000 employees. The Committee therefore asks in particular that employees and their organisations be involved in processes affecting their working situation. I would draw the attention of the Workers' Party to comments from the Workers' Party and SV regarding the Public Service Office, and another representative would say more about this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e896	The Progress Party is pleased that the Ministry will now carry out a survey and assessment of the quality of the nationwide postal services, as it is important to identify the challenges facing the Post with a view to maintaining a socially imposed level of service for these services. Developments are generally characterised by rapid technological development, changing customer requirements, increasing competition and internationalisation, where technological innovation is an important driver of market and competition developments. We see that electronic mail is now being used more and more and that the Post Office's exclusive rights area is likely to represent a relatively lower share of turnover in the future as a result of areas such as IT services and light goods being assumed to have a higher growth in the area of exclusive rights. The market for transporting packages up to 30-40 kg has shown a steady growth in recent years. Developments are generally characterised by increasing competition and increased demands for speed and quality, which we in the Progress Party believe benefits users in terms of better and cheaper services. We are also concerned that, as long as social service requirements are met, the Post must have a great deal of freedom to develop its service provision and to choose the most efficient and appropriate means in individual cases, and to conclude different types of alliances and cooperation agreements. As far as the exclusive right of the Post is concerned, there is a requirement in the concession that social claims be met in return for exclusive rights, but we see that there are problems in calculating the costs associated with the purchase of unprofitable postal services by the State. The Progress Party believes that this problem must be addressed, and that the purchase of unprofitable postal services by the State must be put out of competition. The principle must be that the country should purchase basic postal services in those parts of the country where there is no commercial basis for such services. The Progress Party believes that as long as Post Norway BA has a monopoly on nationwide communication of closed addressed letters up to 350 grams, the unit tariff for this group of postal items is maintained. This also applies if the monopoly ceases to exist. It must then be a prerequisite for the concession holder to maintain the unit rate system within the country for the transmission of closed, addressed letters up to 350 grams. The Progress Party considers it important to enable the Post to meet the major challenges that the company faces in the years ahead. It is expected that competition from foreign players will increase and that the integration of the postal services market will continue internationally. At the same time, the limits on postal products are weakened in relation to other products. There is reason to believe that there will be developments in the postal sector parallel to those in the telecommunications sector. It is important here to reduce the cost level of meeting the tough competition of large foreign players and to achieve the quality objectives set for the company. Unable to compete on quality in central strata of the country and generate profits from this market, the Post will have implications for its ability to provide good services in districts. The challenge is not to provide postal services in key directions, where there is a commercial basis for this type of service, the challenge is to provide services where there is no commercial basis. In order to master these challenges, it is important that the Post is organised in such a way that the board and administration have the widest possible scope for action, so that the management of the enterprise can quickly capture and implement the measures necessary to maintain the competitiveness of the enterprise on a continuous basis. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to convert the Item from management to AS. The greatest difference between the type of company of the Post and a limited liability company is linked to the staff side, and in particular to the State Contracting Authority. The post is a very staff-intensive company, where approx. 65 pst. the costs incurred are staff costs. In terms of reliability of delivery, the Post is facing major challenges, then lower than 80 pst. of the ‘A’ item arrives at the recipient at the agreed time. This is far below the target of 93 pst., as the Stortinget has stated. The item received 580 million in 1999. kr from the State in order to meet these objectives, and the Progress Party believes that it is wrong for the Post to receive compensation as agreed when the Post does not provide the services assigned to it. It gives wrong incentives to the Post and false signals to the other contracting parties of the State. It is important that the Post focuses on achieving the quality objectives set for the company. It is not acceptable that the Post as a State monopoly should be able to redefine the quality objectives when the company does not meet the quality objectives set by the Stortinget. The post has recently required customers to move mail boxes placed by owner-occupiers to collect stands in the vicinity. This is perceived by many customers as a deterioration in the Posten's service offer. The propulsion party can only accept a conversion to a assembly stand if this is necessary to give customers a better quality of service. It is not acceptable that the Item reduces the level of service according to the desire to reduce its obligations towards customers. There are differing views on income requirements and dividend policies in the case of state-owned companies organised like BA and AS. This concerns the relationship between supporting a company and simultaneously taking dividends from the same company – i.e. giving and taking. In an AS, the board determines the dividend, while there is more doubt about this in the BA operating form. The Progress Party wants initially to treat the form of company BA as closely as possible to AS in terms of dividend policy, and will therefore place great emphasis on the Board's assessment, without the State depriving itself of the right to dividends before the equity percentage has reached 40 pst. I would like to propose, on behalf of the Right and the Advance Party, that the Post Norway BA be converted into a limited liability company from 1 January 2000. The proposal is included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e924	Christopher Stensaker has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e927	The item has been through important and necessary restructuring over the period 1996-98. The number of self-propelled post offices has decreased from more than 2000 to 900, while there has been a slight increase in the number of post offices and a few more country postal routes have been established. The world has changed. Mobility has increased. The services previously the Item was more or less alone about were partially replaced by others. Minibanks, letter and telegiro have largely replaced payment over reservations at the Post Office. It's a development we can't or should not stop. However, it is important that everyone has access to the services they need. Therefore, the creation of several country postal routes is positive. For many, this is a better offer than a post office with short opening hours. In several places, shops or service stations have signed an agreement with the Post Office, and they are now offering some of the basic services. This has in no way gone unnoticed, and it should be lacking only when it comes to one of Norway’s largest employers with activities throughout the country, with a central role in employment in Disrikts-Norway. The Christian People's Party will therefore stress the importance of the Post exploiting the technology to maintain decentralised location where there is a basis for it. The post is facing major challenges. In a time when everything is going to happen more quickly, there is also a great demand for the Post Office. The main requirement is the improvement of the transmission time for normal A-mail. As indicated in the Communication, there is a wide gap between the objectives and the results in this area. About 80 pst. of the A-item is on the next day, while the objective is 93 pst. New sorting terminals, relocation in the dispatch network and recruitment problems may be some of the reasons. Nevertheless, a person can safely conclude that the Post must reach the limit in order to achieve the objectives of transmission time. And perhaps it is that the centralisation of work tasks has gone too far beyond the service target. The need for efficiency of the item has also resulted in customers being required to collect the mailboxes on a common stand. It is not harmful in itself, and the few of the customers of the Post Office are injured by walking a few meters out of their own driveway to pick up the mail. But that must be flexibility. The item must be flexible and comprehensible in terms of how fast stands are required to be set up, and one must limit how far a demand for people to move to reach the mailbox. In the Christian People's Party we are positive to public service offices. Together with the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, we refer to a joint remark we had in 1995-96. Now the government is working on the problem. That is partly why we are not involved in the further remark from the Workers' Party and SV now. However, the main reason is another. We do not think it appropriate for public service offices to be set up on the basis of a centrally prepared template that does not take account of local circumstances. Public service offices need to be adapted to the municipality and its inhabitants. In some places, the Post may be a natural partner; in other places, it may be natural with other partners where the Post is not included, but for example. social security offices, equality authorities and others. There is at least no good solution to create a template that everyone has to follow, but that can quickly become a coercion. The Progress Party and the Right want to transform the Post into a limited liability company. The Christian People's Party has little faith that a limited liability company will be able to deliver the post cheaper and better, and does not have the same dogmatic belief that everything done by private people is made cheaper and more efficient. On the contrary, the Christian People's Party believes that ensuring the whole country and all its inhabitants a good and decent postal service must be a very important and high priority task for the state. State ownership provides security and security to intervene and focus on problems and, if necessary, reverse taken decisions if political desire so requires. Finally, the Board of Directors of the Post has highlighted the following challenges: improve service and quality meeting increasing competition meeting decline in physical mail recruiters, develop and maintain skilled labour force matching cost levels I think the Post's government has pointed to the main challenges, and I hope they succeed in their quest to make the Post an increasingly decent company for the benefit of the country's inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e964	As several speakers have pointed out, the Post is facing major challenges in the coming years. Due to technological and market developments, in particular: the number of restricted dispatches has fallen sharply over the past few years. This is a development that most people believe will continue equally. This development has caused a sharp reduction in the number of post offices, and it has been announced from the central government that this development will continue; well, noting that it is being interpreted from the centre as if this is the nail in the chest of District Norway. In that way, there's something new. Right will underline the importance of enabling the Post to meet the challenges it faces in the years ahead. It is expected that competition from foreign players will increase and that the integration of the postal services market will continue internationally. At the same time, the limits on postal products are weakened in relation to other products. There is reason to believe that there will be developments in the postal sector parallel to those in the telecommunications sector. To this end, the right will underline the importance of reducing the level of costs in the Post Norway. We believe that this is a prerequisite for meeting the tough competition that will come from foreign players and for achieving the quality objectives set for the company. Unable to compete on quality in central regions of the country and generate profits from this market, the Post could have dramatic consequences for its ability to provide good services in District Norway. The challenge does not consist of providing postal services in key areas, where there is a commercial basis for this type of service. There will always be new actors who will be able to provide the service. The challenge is to provide good services where there is no commercial basis for doing so. In order to master this challenge, it is important that the Post is organised in such a way that the board and the administration have the widest possible scope for action. I therefore refer to Annex 1 Plan for the Post Office's activities in St.meld. No 16 for 1998-99, where the Board of Directors of Post Norge BA expresses: «However, there are disadvantages to the chosen form of company based on special laws. There are some expectations that the Post should continue to be governed as if it were part of the State, even though the company is entirely in line with a limited liability company. The item has been discovered that the company is not consistently regarded as a company that is assimilated to a limited liability company, and thus falls under Section 1-1 of the Company Tax Act. The consequence is that one of the purposes of the company's establishment, which is to provide the Post with operating conditions in line with those of private companies, is not met. The postal corporation of the State is then placed in a tax specialty vis-à-vis competing private enterprises. If the Item is not considered to fall under Section 1-1 of the Company Tax Act, this will have consequences both for the property tax on the company and the tax treatment of the group contributions given and received. The item will take the initiative to clarify it. If the outcome involves the discrimination of the Item, it would be an important point of appeal against the form of company. The greatest difference between the type of company of the Post and a limited liability company relates to the personnel side and, in particular, to the liability of the Post to the State Contracting Authority. The entry is – as the representative of the Progress Party was involved – ‘a highly staff-intensive company with approximately 65% of the costs of human resources. The entry Norway is bound by the main tariff agreement in the country and its design and arrangements have a significant impact on the financial performance and soundness of the company.» It is on this basis that the Right, together with the Progress Party, has made proposals in the position to convert Post BA into a limited liability company – not to damage the Post, but simply to give Posten framework conditions that make them competitive in a market that we believe will be quite tough in the years to come. Unfortunately, the population does not agree with us. The right is pretty worried that just at the bottom of 80 pst. of the ‘A’ item arrives at the recipient at the agreed time. This is far below that target of 93 pst. as Stortinget has stated, and we simply have to say that we are dissatisfied with the Posten's achievement of these service objectives. The entry received 580 million in 1999. kr from the country in order to achieve these objectives. The right believes that it is wrong for the post office to receive compensation as agreed, when the post office no longer manages to fulfil its obligations. There should be incentives that simply say that if you can't fulfill your contracts, well, there's a reduction in transfers. We think it would have been effective, we think it would have given internal concentration on precisely service targets to a much stronger extent than what we are now seeing. In Sweden, where the quality of A-mail is somewhat the same as in Norway, the performance rate was 96 pst in 1998. There is, of course, a difference between topography and housing in Sweden and Norway, but the results show that these objectives can be achieved, and this should also be possible in Norway. However, the Post must have a better use of resources to meet the service and quality objectives expected by customers and owners. On the right, the importance of the Post offering quality services throughout the country and at uniform prices will be stressed. It is important that the Post focuses on achieving the quality objectives set for the company. It is not acceptable that the Post as a State monopoly company should be able to redefine the quality objectives in order to achieve them, once the quality objectives have been set by the plenary assembly. Recently, the post has required customers to move mailboxes placed at their own home to collection stands in the vicinity. I agree that in certain respects it is a good and sensible solution, but very many customers see it as a reduction in the service offer from the Post Office. From the Right side, it is understood that there is a quality improvement to be achieved when moving the mailbox to the assembly stand. It shall be such that the customer experiences it as an improvement in the quality of the Post, not a deterioration. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of the Post focusing on service and quality. I believe, in fact, that if the Post is unable to achieve the defined objectives, consumers will have to ask questions about the organisation of postal services in Norway in another way. It's a challenge for all of us. At the end, the Post is not for the Post Office, but for consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1001	The author of the case, Gunn Olsen, struck with a little wonder that there is today, contrary to 1995, a large deal between the Central Party and the Labour Party on postal policy. But the case spokesman didn't seem to have come with him, is that Posten per. On 1 December 1996 it was established as a special-law company. This was an establishment in which the Center Party disagreed, but which we must accept today. In this situation, it is right that the Centre Party and the Labour Party have basically found a common position when it comes to today's postal policy. But I think the rest of my post will show that in some areas I am more critical of developments than the case spokesman was. Let me immediately conclude that what is a major task for the state in the postal field in the future is to ensure a nation-wide delivery of mail at reasonable prices and good quality. This is a task that must not be lost in sight, and it is therefore positive and necessary for the Ministry of Transport to undertake a survey and assessment of the quality of the nationwide postal services. This assessment should be made as soon as possible. As mentioned in the Posten message, developments are characterised by rapid technology development, changing customer requirements, increasing competition and increasing internationalisation. The entry Norge BA must meet these requirements and at the same time improve service and quality in meeting customers. Posten Norge BA's monopoly situation gives Posten a single right to regularly distribute certain types of mail. As an incentive, the Post will solve societally-enforced tasks. It is important that the Post solves these tasks in a satisfactory way, not only for business reasons, but also from the customers' side. The item has ours and is within an efficiency and conversion period. This greatly reduces the number of post offices, while increasing the number of post offices. The number of postal routes will also be increasing. The efficiencies will also affect the post-transmission and will involve the movement and/or collection of mailboxes in some areas. The Ministry suggests that this efficiency and conversion in the Post Office should benefit customers in the form of a better and cheaper supply than would otherwise have been possible. After Posten’s own opinion, the level of service in the districts has been improved in recent years. At the same time, the Post admits that there is a problem with, for example: transmission times. The quality of the mail delivery is not good enough compared to the required service measures. This applies not only to districts but also to central districts. In my opinion, it is not enough to hear the Post saying that it has achieved the rationalization and efficiency that has been achieved. It is also important to listen to how customers experience the situation, and the responses that come from dissatisfied postal customers are quite many. I sat yesterday and went through the requests I have collected from municipalities, construction teams, individuals and companies about the conversion in the Post Office and the effects for the customers. It is obvious that the postal customers do not experience the change that has occurred, as an unimaginablely better level of service, as one can perceive what the Post is making it. I have previously said that I do not ignore the fact that some restructuring in the Post Office has been necessary. But if it is such that a lot of people feel that they have a significantly worse service than before, there is reason to ask questions about the conversion. It is decisive that the Post listens to signals from the grassroots or the users. Client access and service must be a basic value of the Post in a reorganization process. I believe we can live with the fact that we cannot deliver the mail at each of our doors. We can live with mailboxes being placed on assembly stands. But it must be a reasonable position and an acceptable distance from the mailbox, not as some people now feel, that the mailbox should suddenly be moved several kilometers from the house. This is not experienced as improvement, nor is it. The attention of customers must be focused on the changes to be made. Very many reactions have come to the lack of quality of delivery of correspondence. The entry is far from reaching the target of 93 pst. for A-mails to be sent to the recipient at the agreed time. This creates irritation and problems in both individuals and companies. Especially for enterprises, this can have very negative consequences. Many companies operate with temptations, often short deadlines, and depend entirely on correspondence and correspondence to arrive at the agreed time. The Posttenesta is an important part of the infrastructure, and high quality requirements must be met. These are challenges that the Post must face in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1029	As everyone has noted, there have been strong structural changes in the Post Office in recent years, with a strong downturn in post offices. And I'm tempted to interfere a little bit with the polemics between the representatives of Gunn Olsen and Jorunn Ringstad. The situation for some years ago in this room was that there was a party that destroyed the post office, the barrier, the door for the door. It is not that the Post has become a special law company that changes something here. It's clear that if they wanted to, they could deposit 400 million or 600 million or 1 billion in the purchase of postal services. Of course, this could have kept the post offices. It's completely possible. But I think you've recognized that there's no realism in it. Barrier services are too downstream and are still going to be. If we are to have a useful post office network – what happens goes beyond the level of service – we need to assign other services to post offices. It's a strategy that's possible. Based on today's services, I imagine new rounds of closures, which are important for the level of service. It's a good idea to make public fissures. But from idea to reality, the road can be too long. People don't live in the world of ideas, they live in the real world. It is three years since the Stortinget took a positive decision regarding the public service office, when we dealt with the ‘Post enterprise in Norway’ in the spring of 1996. In the three years, a service office based on a post office has been established, in the Utterkarpen in Rana. This doesn't float on a mountain. We know that established structures are conservative in nature. It's going to take a little bit more time to think about it. It is therefore amazing that the centre parts cannot be connected with the Working Party and SV when we point out that a model based on a package solution that can be used throughout the network must be developed. The government is based on local initiatives, which were also made clear in the statement made yesterday by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. Then we are in danger of the cow dying long before the grass has grown. The budgets have so far been very reprehensible to local initiatives, based on the experience I have. We're getting a paralysis. That's not what we need. We need a thoughtful strategy, where the government has overall responsibility in cross-ministerial cooperation, to get the pieces in place. To the representative Sahl I would like to say when he is so afraid of that package and that template: the state agencies must have a standard for what they are going to join in such a service office network. If they don't, they won't. Then you can have local adjustments in terms of which municipal services, library services, etc. which can be connected to it. But the state agencies have to have a template, and they have to be required to put into such a network. If not, it'll be nothing. And then I'm very tempted to comment on the Right and the Advance Party. This is a study of how parties can cope with the sea in the door. The right-hand side and the front-hand side are not satisfied with the level of service, among other things. that a large part of the A item does not come within the objectives. And what's the answer? Yes, the Post will receive smaller transfers from the State – cut off the purchase of services! What will be the result? Even worse results. Then I guess the next step will be further cut because the post office does not reach the goals. It is possible that the Post may not do a good enough job. Among other things, I'm very sceptical about part of the strategy of sorting, where the post between neighbors is going on a long journey before it comes out. It doesn't seem rational on me. But at the same time I have to say that I think the list is too high. For us who know Norwegian transport – and I would think that everyone in the committee, including the Progress Party and the Right, did – it seems almost unattainable in Norway that 93 pst. the entry must arrive within one day. It's a theoretical model. Those who are travelling and know delays and cancellations – not only at the Gardermoen, but not least there – see that this is a theoretical model. It is possible that the list should have been placed elsewhere. That doesn't mean the Post can't get better, but we also have to look at where the list is. At least the answer cannot be a reduction in the purchase of postal services. Then I would like to comment on the post office stand. The fact that post office is closed down a lot has never been a part of the progress and the right has been a part of it. But that users have to go a few meters to the mailbox, cheers them up. I've grown up with a post office stand. Mother-in-law has it. We live with it in the country as long as it's about the community. It is fully possible to go and pick up the post office seagoing. But if we are to refuse the Post to have an assembly stand, it has a price of approx. 200 post office. Is the Right Party and the Advance Party willing to pay? No, they're gonna cut. They shall impose on the Post the most expensive way of delivering the mail and shall cut the transfers. This is pure audience-freery, nothing else. It's a raw populism that they can safely operate with, because they know they don't have a majority for it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1048	The post office is what most of us seem to get almost every day. And we notice that if the time when the post office is going to come, is going to change, or if our mailbox is moving. For the left, it is important that we have a nationwide range of mail shipments to secure households and businesses across the country, basic postal services of good quality and at reasonable prices. It is also important that the price of services in the areas where Posten Norge BA has one right is the same for all without regard to where one is accommodated. The main challenges the Post will face in the coming years are to improve service and quality, to meet increasing competition and decline in physical mail, to recruit, to develop and maintain skilled labour and to adapt the level of costs. The left will stress that one of the most important challenges is to address the societal demands effectively and effectively. As I said in the introduction, we all have a relationship with the Post. Therefore, many people turn to the left when it comes to service and quality. We have recorded extensive efforts to improve quality with regard to reliable delivery, but the Post Office is still facing major challenges. For this reason, the majority have also asked the Ministry to carry out a review of the transmission target for A-mail. It is also important to monitor and assess the quality of the nationwide postal services and the specific challenges facing the Post with regard to maintaining a socially imposed level of service for these services. The left believes that as long as the requirements for community duties and service requirements are met, the Post must have great freedom to develop its service provision and to choose the most effective and best-suited behaviors in the individual cases. The Left has noted that, in the light of experience with the reorganisation of the despatch network and other reorganisations, the Post will carry out a review with the Local Governments’ Central Associations to look at the guidelines for cooperation with municipalities in planning processes relating to the post office network. I would like to stress here that in order to provide users with a good supply of public services, it is important that the Post and the municipalities cooperate and look at possible possibilities to work together. The government has set up a working group to review the measures required for the establishment of public service offices in municipalities. What I stressed about cooperation between the Post and local authorities to provide services to local residents is not just cooperation on an office. Therefore, the Left is not a follower of government templates, but sees a lack of solutions adapted to the individual municipality and for the benefit of the individual user of the services. Should the Post be competitive, the Post must keep service and quality in focus, and the Post must be willing to listen to the customer. I believe the Post will. I believe that when you get a statement about how the Post along with other public agencies, public authorities, can work to provide the best possible service to the inhabitants, you will be able to achieve that goal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1068	Today, when the Storting deals with the guidelines for the Post Office’s activities, there is a broad consensus. Between the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party, there is almost complete agreement – full agreement on the postal policy that the Labour Party's governments have conducted and that the new government has carried on. We in the Labour Party are very pleased about that. But we are surprised – very surprised. In the main body of the Central Party, Anne Enger Lahnstein said a few years ago: ‘The main lines of Norwegian policy are now running between Ap and Sp’ – see areas such as the entry. The post offices and the alleged opposition of the Central Party to the closure of post offices were highlighted as the case of large S. The central party’s refusal to close post offices was the symbol of district policy, of welfare policy – the symbol of central policy. The centre party sent out a press release entitled «The centre party opposes the rage of the postal office network». Today, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party are for the closure of post offices, not just for the conversions carried out under the Workers' Party. They're not converted. The centre party and the Christian People's Party are for new closures. Post offices were closed in 1998 — during the central government. The number of sorting terminals was greatly reduced – during the centre management. And now the Jam Center Party and the Christian People's Party say that they want to lay down more post offices – I quote from the message: ‘Although significant changes in the composition of the despatch network have been made in recent years, there will still be a need to further develop and adapt the network to market needs and to optimise profitability.’ Yeah, that's right, of course. But where has it become of the claimed ideology? According to the then president of the Centre Party, the closure of post offices was an example of the main lines of Norwegian policy. Then we can see that this ‘ideological’ distinction has been washed away – that too! So some claim that this is a matter for the Post Office's government. Yeah, that's right. But it has not been long since the then Christian People's Party spokeswoman, May-Helen Molvær Grimstad, said: ‘Minister for Transport Kjell Opseth is guilty of a total discharge when he says that the decision to close post offices is the Post Office’s own case’. The central party also underlined the government's responsibility. Today the Christian People's Party and the Center Party say that they – and I quote from the message – ‘will generally stress the importance of providing the Post with sufficient freedom, within the overall framework of its activities, to adapt the network to the needs of the market and to a sound economy’. Once again, it is good to note the agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. Then others will claim that this government does not govern by the party programs of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. That's supposed to be true! But does the government at least rule after the Waxenå Declaration? It says on page 30: ‘The central parties disagree with the strong focus on corporate economic profitability in relation to key service functions in society, such as: postal and telecommunications services.’;» Well? So in today's message, the government says that a «considers it important to give the item sufficient commercial freedom and flexibility to make rapid business decisions and adjustments to changed market conditions». And on the other hand, ‘In addition, the future market position of the item will depend on the extent to which it is able to compete on price while ensuring satisfactory economic performance.’» Yes, they say! The broad agreement on postal policy provides the Post Office with a good basis for meeting the challenges they face. And since the centre parties now agree with the postal policy the Labour Party has led and run, and since the centre parties per. definition believes that the government is pursuing a good policy – yes, we should agree that the transitions in the Post that the Workers' Party carried out were, in fact, sensible policies, nevertheless.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1119	The entry Norge BA was established as a special-law company per year. 1 December 1996. In accordance with the overall governance structure established, the Ministry of Transport, which owns two years, must provide a comprehensive report on the company's activities. The communication dealt with in the Storting today is the first ownership notification after the Post was established as a special-law entity and is based on the Posten strategy plan for the period 1998-2000. The Committee's position confirms that there is a strong political consensus, which many have had in the past, that the main task for the postal sector is to ensure good quality basic postal services for households and businesses throughout the country at reasonable prices. In this context, I have noticed that the Committee agrees that the Ministry will carry out a survey and assessment of the quality of the nationwide postal services. I have also noticed that the Committee agrees with the Ministry of Transport that there is generally good agreement between the main strategies presented in the Posten Strategy Plan and the framework conditions laid down by the Stortinge. I have also noticed that the majority of the committee is asking the ministry to review the transmission target for A-mail. The requirement that at least 93 pst. of the A-item must be present at the consignee no later than the day following the submission, appears in the concession to the Post Norway BA, and is the target figure for the 1990s. As the Stortinget is known, changes to the Postal Act were introduced in March of this year in the treatment of Ot. pp. No 18 for 1998-1999, About the Act amending the Postal Act. The background to the legislative changes was mainly the implementation of the EU Postal Directive in Norwegian law and changes to the postal code rules on liability. As a further step in the implementation of the Postal Directive, the Ministry of Transport will also make provision for changes to the Postal Regulation and the Post Norway BA concession. When assessing the need for revision of the Post Office's concession, it would also be natural for the Department to carry out a review of defined A-post service targets. It is clear from the purpose section of the Postal Act, Section 2, that the purpose of the Act is to ensure a nationwide distribution of postal items at a reasonable price and of good quality. It is clear from the committee opinion that there is a strong political consensus that, for the services currently covered by the exclusive right of the Post, geographical unit portfolio, but this will not prevent the Post from continuing to offer discounts and differentiated prices on a commercial basis. As also stated in the biggest notification, it is important to draw a distinction between the pricing of competitive services and those covered by the exclusive right. In order to ensure effective competition for services falling outside the exclusive jurisdiction, the Communication emphasises that the Post should have the same framework as its competitors with regard to pricing as far as possible. An important starting point for pricing will be that the costs associated with competitive services will be covered by revenues from those services and not by revenues from the exclusive jurisdiction. I have also noticed that a minority in the Committee, consisting of the members of the Committee from the Advance Party and the Right, have made proposals to convert the item into a limited liability company from 1 January 2000. With reference to the statement and the assessments given in the notification, I believe that this is the basis for concluding that the experience so far is that the form of a special-law company has essentially met expectations. However, I would like to stress the importance of providing the Post with sufficient commercial freedom and flexibility to make rapid business decisions and adjustments to changing market conditions. In this context, I have noticed that the majority of the Committee agrees that, as long as social service requirements are met, the Post must have a great deal of freedom to develop its own organisation within the framework of established statutes, to develop its services and to choose the most appropriate means in the individual case. In my opinion, this will be very important for the Post Office to be able to solve the main challenges it is facing. In recent years, the item has implemented a number of measures to achieve more rational and cost-effective solutions in the production of its services. These measures include, inter alia: significant conversions within the despatch network. I assume that there will still be a need to further develop and adapt the production apparatus to the needs of the market, and that it will primarily be the concession of the Post and the service requirements laid down there, which limits how far the company can go in improving the efficiency and conversion of the network structure. The Ministry of Transport will closely monitor traffic developments in the postal office network and return to Stortinget if more significant changes are made to the network structure. I want to return to the Right and the Advance Party's observation regarding the forwarding target for A-mail and the comparison between Norway and Sweden in a later three-minute insert.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1147	The entry has been and will continue to be a good starting point for assessing future activities of the Item. For the Workers' Party, this has been central when the Post has been through a heavy but necessary reorganisation. And it has not been lacking in attacks and criticism from the Center Party and the Christian People's Party in these matters. Several have quoted former leader of the Senterpartiet, Anne Enger Lahnstein, so I won't do that. "It was then and it was now," as Prøysen says. In the matter we are debating today, there is a touching consensus between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties. Int. S. No 126 for 1994-1995, on the basis of a document No 8 proposed by the Magnus Stangeland of the Central Party, a proposal was made by the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the SV, which reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to instruct the Post Office to be extremely careful about the closure of post offices until such a plan is managed by the Stortinget.’ In that debate May-Helen Molvær Grimstad of the Christian People's Party said: ‘But there is every cause for concern if the business-economic thinking is taken over by the Post Office. One can actually see a slight tendency towards it when there are still proposals for the closure of post office’...’One must be careful to put down post office where there is local resistance.’ Does this mean that the government of Bondevik will ensure that there is no post office in the districts or where there is local resistance? When the Workers' Party in the matter we are dealing with today is in agreement with the Government, that means that this is a continuation of the Labour Party's policy. And we're very pleased with that. It is particularly nice for the Workers' Party to testify that the Center Party also thinks this is a good development for the Post Office. Then it should be forgotten that the Center Party and the Christian People's Party went into frontal attacks on the Workers' Party's postal policy when the central comrades were in opposition. Because it is a reality that only in 1998, under the government of Bondevik, where the Central Party is involved, 232 post offices were closed — most of them in the districts, well to note. Let's forget that Stangeland said earlier: ‘In my opinion, the closure of post offices can hardly be classified under the category ‘good rural policy’.’ Now I'm going to do what I can to forget the hard attacks that have been taking place against the Workers' Party when we dealt with postal matters in the previous period. In fact, I think that several people have understood that conversion was necessary, and I should not be surprised if the centre parties have heard the same thing as I have, namely that people are actually satisfied with the postal services in the districts. It is not the post office itself that decides whether people get good service, but whether everyone gets good postal services regardless of where they live. I will be so liberal in this debate that I want us to stand together and work for the best possible postal service in the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1178	The post is required to run a profitable business, while the company is responsible for important social tasks. Thus, the Post is at the intersection of politics and the market. There is nothing, either in people's habits or in Posten's plans, that means that the demand for post office services in the future will fill the capacity of the post offices we have today, unless the service provision changes significantly. We're facing three alternatives. The first option is to hope that the Storting is willing to pay for an increasing deficit in the postal network, which I do not want to put my trust in. The second option is to reduce the cost of continuing post office closure and post office transformation. This means innumerability for many employees in the districts and a reduction in the provision of services for those using the restricted services. The third option is to find new income opportunities that can help to increase traffic above the threshold. Like the representative Myrvoll, I would like to think that the last option is what needs to be continued as soon as possible, namely the continuation of the offer with, among other things. public service offices. This means that the Post Office becomes a single contact point and first line service for various public agencies and bodies, where the Post provides simple information and barrier processing services on their behalf. If this is to become a reality, we need to start this process as quickly as possible in relation to other state agencies. We cannot wait for municipal initiatives. The left does not want such paintings, as the representative Vihoved had to say. Then I'm afraid nothing happens. This allows other state agencies to streamline their local apparatus by outsourcing simple and more routine tasks to the Post Office. This is an improvement in efficiency which will be achieved regardless of whether such coordination is being pursued. What we achieve with such coordination is that most people maintain an offer in their local environment. But then we can't wait until the post office is closed. I believe that there are gains to be gained by bringing together parts of these services in one place, especially in smaller municipalities, where the various states feel that the offices are getting so small that it creates problems. I believe that such coordination of public services will create a greater volume of traffic across the postal desk. That is why the ball has been kicked to the ends of politics. The action space of the post is limited to ‘making yourself look good’, but it is primarily our task as politicians ‘to dance’. In addition, the Post also has a job to do, namely to ensure that the payment service is in the entire network. This is important, no matter what happens in the banking world and with the Postbank. Insurance in the network is also an interesting offer. Furthermore, there is also a challenge for the Post Office to obtain alliances with other actors, private and public, which create traffic and revenues for the Post Office. Of course, it is a big question of whether the total willingness to pay by people and service producers is large enough to make the service profitable for the Post. But this must not be insolent. Therefore, I would like to end by saying that when the Post is praying at table, it must be an equivalent spice layer. The post cannot be a host on each occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1201	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1204	It has been said by the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party and the Right – and I quote from the comitology – that: ‘Sweden, which uses the same quality measure for the transmission of A-mail as Norway, had a performance rate of 96 pst in 1998.’ Furthermore, the Committee commented that although there is a difference between topography and population censuses, the results show that the objectives set by the Stortinget for Posten Norge BA are achievable. In this context, I would like to inform you that in Sweden delivery reliability targets are used, indicating how much percent of the shipments are actually delivered according to the specified transmission time. In Norway, on the other hand, overnight rates are used. The goal of minimum 93 pst. by A-items shall be promoted overnight, shall be determined on the basis of what is theoretically possible to obtain overnight, combined with the Poster's internal business objectives for reliability of delivery. I would also like to inform you that the concession requirement in Sweden is set to at least 85 pst. consignments paid to arrive overnight shall arrive on the day following submission. Furthermore, it is required that 97 pst. such consignments shall be presented after three working days. In view of the fact that the two countries have set different target sizes on a different basis, it will be difficult to make a comparison between Norway and Sweden. I felt that it was necessary to disclose this, because there has also been repeated a comparison on a different basis in the debate today in previous articles. As the Council of State, I am not going to interfere in the political debate today on what was said earlier by various parties that were in position and opposition at the time. I agree that today we have a BA organisation. I would like to remind you that if you were so convinced of the release of the Post and the total release as best, it would be a challenge to move on to the AS model. I am of those who believe that the Post is for customers. It may well be that at the time that I myself was involved in discussing what structure we were going to choose, we also had the situation of our employees strongly within the assessment and therefore chose the exact model we made at the time. I'm a little worried about the strong polarization that some workers' speakers and women put up in today's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1218	The representative, the Fall, referred to a proposal that we have been on, that we wanted a plan. It's not that stupid; when you're going to reorganize and restructure, it's not so stupid to ask to get a real plan for it. Because what I am concerned about is not the number of post offices, but that is the level of service, how we should access the service we need. And then I'm also willing to look at alternative forms of organization. I understand the representatives Fallet and Schjøtt-Pedersen, I understand that they were mostly in the past. They had the joy of having to strike back – at last. It wasn't very constructive, but I realized the joy. I would certainly have taken advantage of the sea in that situation. But the future is important. That's where I and most people with me, I expect, should stay the rest of our lives, and that's who we can do something with. What I'm happy about now is that we've got a split in this case and some other things, where the center, the working party and SV stand together, and then we've placed the Right and the Advance Party on the sideline. That's how it should have been in general in Norwegian policy, so we would have escaped so much right-wing policy. It is a good advice to the centre and to the Workers' Party as well: now try to arrange it in the future so that we get that sharing in Norwegian policy, not only in postal matters, but also in general. It would be very good for society. But then I have to ask the center for something, because I am a little surprised when one after another in the hall goes up and says that you should have local variants in the service offices. Yes, that's okay, but can you see that the social security rate, the equality rate and the employment service are going to go in with local variants for what they're going to offer in a service office? The type of national state agencies must in some way have a structure in which they operate. So I think the 'packages' that are going to be available from them must be standardized and the same. Then you can create local variants and municipal services for library services and things that fit into a service office, but the large state agencies cannot operate with such local negotiations. Then it'll be nothing. Now we're going to remember one thing: it's three years since the Stortinget made this decision about service offices, and it was Christian People's Party and SV who were the proposers. Nothing has happened in the three years. But now we have a Minister of Transport from the Christian People's Party who is responsible for the Post, and then we have a Minister of Labour and Administration from the Christian People's Party who has the overall responsibility to coordinate the various agencies and departments in this process. I am therefore looking forward to the proposal that we agree on, now becomes a reality by developing models for service offices that can be realized out there where people live. If not, much of the service disappears from these floors, and the post offices disappear because of what they get to work on, it becomes so little that there is no basis for maintaining them. And we're good at developing this public service model and working a little quickly, so maybe we can keep a good service out there in the districts as well. I trust that the Christian People's Party is now taking seriously, since they were co-sponsors three years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1231	The President reminds us that all speeches should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1234	It was basically SV's Inge Myrvoll that made me take the word again. He was a little shocked that parts of the Right had become populist, it was about this with the post-box stands. I would like to stress that I said in the post that I saw no damage in moving the mailboxes to a assembly stand. But there are an incredible number of examples that the walking distance, if you compare what customers had before, and the one they got after getting such a collection, is much, much larger than what you could expect to get. That's what was my point. My point was also that it should be justified by quality improvement and not only by a structural change that benefits the Post as such. I also share the description of Inge Myrvoll, and I understand very well the representatives of the Workers' Party today. I understand them very well. After being in Stortinget, in the Transport Committee, for so long and hearing the incredible results of the Post in Norway, I understand their need to fight back. But then we can well establish, then, once and for all, that no party in this hall has as its own goal the laying down of post offices. If we agree on that, at least we've come a lot further than we were the last time we've dried up about the Post. So until this was what the Council of State was talking about, what was related to comparison with Sweden. I believe that I too came into my article on some shades related to Sweden. It's quite true that there are some differences, but that was kind of not what was the point. The point is that when you have a monopoly company to manage for a goal, it's incredibly important that you can't redefine that goal along the way, because that's what's the reason for the monopoly. No such objectives had been set in a competitive system. My point is to stress that it is important that the Post manages to maintain the goal simply because of the confidence in the Post as such in people. You have to be extremely careful about adjusting the target afterwards to be able to hit your chest and say that we did it. It was in many ways more a comparison that made it possible in Sweden to achieve the goal, and then you might disagree as to whether the goal is the same. It's probably true, as the Council of State says, that there are differences, but the point is that they have the goal of being fixed, and they're measuring against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1243	I record that the Council of State will not interfere in the political debate, but it is not entirely unnatural if he should. The Council of State expressed concern at the polarisation of the debate. Yes, then I must say that the polarisation of the debate has been between the Right and the Progress Party and the other parties. I was uncertain about what the council here thought, whether he kept open to convert BA into a corporation, and I could imagine that it would be useful if he deepened it. On the other hand, if the Council of State sees it as a polarisation between the Workers' Party and SV and the Centre Parties, it is not right. On the contrary, in my article I have underlined very strongly the satisfaction of the broad agreement with the Center Party and the Christian People's Party. But it is the consensus that is alarming here, and not the disagreement, in relation to the political debate that has been in recent years. Then a political Janus face emerged, where the Central Party before the government change pointed out that the main dividing lines of Norwegian policy – nothing less than the main dividing lines of Norwegian policy – went between the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, where the Centre Party opposed the closure of post offices, and the Workers' Party was open to closure of post offices. It was supposed to be key dividing lines in Norwegian policy – understand it as it can, but it was Anne Enger Lahnstein’s claim. Then we are facing a reality today where the post office, 232 post office last year, is closed, and where in the message we are debating today, we are presented to a scheme by the Government that adds up to further closures. First of all, I assume that the Council of State will not dispute that if the Government disagrees with the decisions made by the Post Office's own bodies to close 232 post offices in 1998, it could have been brought before the General Assembly. Secondly, I assume that the Council of State does not disagree that if the Government had had a different view than the Post Office's own bodies at the closure of postal terminals, it could also have been brought before the General Assembly. I assume that the Council of State does not disagree that it is in today's communication the future postal policy, the owner's instructions in relation to the Post on how the Post will carry out its activities in the years to come, are being withdrawn. It is then that the State Council, like the State Council, Dørum, the Government, the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, says that the postal policy that has been pursued in recent years should be pursued – contrary to what was previously said, and contrary to what was previously so strongly criticised as to mean that it marked the main lines of Norwegian policy. Nothing more and nothing less!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1252	It may be that the Council of State had been tempted over the ability to have gone into a longer political polemics, but he'll try to refrain from it right now, and just say that some things in the world are history when we've taken certain steps. No one today recognizes that it is possible to go back two, three years in time and then take what was then, as the starting point for a description of the Post Office's business. We're dealing with the world of reality, we're dealing with the framework conditions we've given the Post Norway BA, and from that we want a solution that's best for the nation, and for the customers first and foremost. Let me say a little about the public service office. The government's aim is to establish a public service office as a general scheme, based mainly on local initiatives and cooperation between municipalities and state agencies and businesses. A working group has recently been set up under the direction of the Ministry of Labour and Administration, including the Ministry of Transport, which is responsible for drawing up a permanent system of public service offices. The Group shall identify formal barriers to implementation and develop proposals for amendments to eliminate these barriers. In addition, it shall assess the need for and, where appropriate, prepare draft new public service agency law. The question of funding the proposals shall also be addressed. The investigation shall be completed by February 2000. I see a lot of positive at the public service office, but we should not believe that this also means rationalisation. We have to bear in mind that when we create a public service office, demand in some areas will increase, but the efficiency of production will also probably increase, so that I see that public service offices could also lead to rationalisation on the part of workers. This should be included in the final assessment. But I am very positive that this solution is chosen where there is local consensus, we can pick up a win, and we can maintain a service offer that would otherwise have disappeared.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1264	The working party and also the center government are really very concerned that everything that people need, it must be the government that rules, otherwise everything goes wrong. So, we have to control the Post. It should have been the customers who directed the Post Office. I've become so old that I remember from Aure, where I grew up, that we had cooperative and post in one, and that was the place where people met, and got news from the village, and that was a nice place. It's now gone. The post office has been closed and replaced by a country post office. Those who live in the village believe that they are getting the mail home, and they do not have a worse offer than before, except that the news service they got at the cooperative and post office before is now replaced by TV and radio. My position is that the Post Office must be given the greatest possible freedom to make its own choices. Whether there should be a post office or a joint service office, the Post should find out for itself. But it doesn't necessarily have to be a public service office. Why is that? It could be a private service office. I don't think you need to get involved in that. A service office where more people join together in an office community, which will bring costs down, is likely to bring the greatest benefit. The aim must be to provide the users with the service they want, at the price they are willing to pay for it. I also imagine that postal services, for example. may be added to a cooperative team as part of the customer service. Many today have taken over some services from pharmacies, for example: the supply of medicinal products, which are supplied on the cooperative layer. They have tipping, and they start getting more functions. I think the best thing for the Post is that we're as far away as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1277	This debate has shown that some in the Labour Party love to talk about the past and quote earlier from various representatives. If it gives the Labour Party a happy and a good day, they should be allowed to do so. Personally, I am more busy with today's situation and future. My starting point for debates in the Chamber is that we debate the issues that are being put forward and take them as their starting point. Either the Workers' Party will grant it or not, when the Post was set up as a special law company on 1 December 1996, a change which means that the Storting has less chance of directly intervening in the arrangements made by Posten Norge BA. Of course, it's not an intervention that equals zero. There was a change, and Ola Røtvej was in his contribution to exactly what I am now saying: the post office has gained a greater freedom to decide for itself in own houses, and thus Stortinget's ability to control has been reduced. I said in my post that the change that happened, we have to take it seriously. That is what I have had as a starting point for the work on the message that we have before us. Even though it was expressed joy that there is a big deal between the central government, the Labour Party and the SV, it's a little suspicious, because one could almost get the impression that it was opposite a request. I can't believe that the Workers' Party and SV have as their starting point that it would have been better for the Center Government to cooperate with the Right and the Advance Party in this matter, when we look at the different positions one has. I have said that I am not happy with everything that has happened in the development of the Post, but I accept the situation that we have today, that we have a special law company, which is a different situation than the one we had before 1 December 1996.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1288	The representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1291	Let me remind you that it is today that we handle the ownership message for the Post. Governments say that some things in the world are history. Yes, it is. The resistance of the Central Party and the Christian People's Party to conversion in the Post is history. Yes, the profiling of postal policy by the Central Party and the Christian People's Party as the basis for another policy, for a central policy and for another value base, is history. I can see that today, and I am pleased that we now agree on the reality. Few things please me more than that there is now full agreement between the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party on postal policy. It is not that the Workers' Party has an intense need to report about it, but we are happy about it. And it's interesting to notice that this most important ideological dividing line -- according to Lahnstein -- is now gone. That's why it's not polarization. The polarization is gone. It was high time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1300	The representative Inge Myrvoll has spoken twice, and gets the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1303	Let me explain to the representative Ringstad: I expressed my satisfaction with this division. I went so far that I said that I wanted the sharing of the store to be general and not just in these matters here because I think the Norwegian community would have enjoyed it, and that the Right and Advance Party would be isolated. Of course, most of us like to use a little bit of the sun in the past and show us a little bit of what others have said. Here it's not about a process in the Center Party, here it's about jumping over a juve that's so big that it would really be impossible to skip it, and know that you've done it. But that's to the representative Nilsen I have to clarify a little bit. He was up in the pulpit and said yes, if it was too far to go to the mailboxes, they were against the rack. But that's not what they're writing. What they write is: «These members» – the Advance Party and the Right – «can only accept a conversion of assembly rack if this is necessary for customers to receive a better quality of service.» And you don't get that when you can't go out in the slippers, but you have to rattle 50 meters. That's why I'm saying this is a nasty audience-freery from people who are otherwise going to cut in the purchase of postal services.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1317	Based on many critical remarks that the Workers' Party has dug in the past, I feel that I might have to go up here and say I'm sorry. I don't! I was present in this room in the previous period, and as I have a chance, I am going to remind this assembly of the attack on the Workers' Party at that time. I'm going to remind this assembly of that – unrelenting. And another thing: no past, no future, it's called. I would like to remind you of that. It might be a good idea to bring along, because it might be that the debate in the future is getting closer to the reality we're in. Jorunn Ringstad said that we had resigned from the responsibility to decide about some post offices. And once again, I have to remind you that I'm glad of it, because it was a bore, that. In fact, I believe that both Jorunn Ringstad and I will be happy that we do not have to decide about the individual post office. But then I have also said in my post, and I would like to repeat this: we are going to stand together and provide the best possible postal service, the best possible postal service, to the whole country. Of course we do, but we all have a past.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1328	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 2816]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1342	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: 25 minutes, 10 minutes, 10 minutes, 10 minutes for the Christian People's Party, 10 minutes for the Christian People's Party, 5 minutes for the Centre, 5 minutes for the Socialist Left, 5 minutes for the Left, 5 minutes for the Twist Party and 5 minutes for the People's Party. Furthermore, the President will propose to allow for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1349	The debate today is the first of its kind. At least the form we have in the debate today is new. In the autumn of 1996, the size decided on a new organisational structure for the railway. On 1 December the same year the NSB was split up in the Railway Station and NSB BA. The railway works are responsible for the infrastructure, i.e. the road on which the trains are to run. NSB BA has since that date been organised as a so-called special-law company, in the same way as the Post Norway BA. The Board of Directors of the NSB BA shall submit annually a plan for the company’s activities to the General Assembly, i.e. to the Ministry of Transport. Every two years, the department will then submit a notice to the Stortinget dealing with the overall lines of the company. The communication now under consideration, and therefore the debate today, are the first of these. NSB BA has a large degree of freedom of sea control over its own operations. This is one of the basics of the control model we now have. It shall be at the end of the time when the members of this Assembly behaved as if they were 165 drivers or over-conductors who interfered in each minimum detail of the NSB. In a previous rail debate here in the hall, I quoted an old railway driver who once claimed that the next after sex, the railway operation is the most difficult operation to control. Even today, I am not going to assess the content of the statement in more detail, but I am convinced that the organisation and the management system we have today are far better than the system that was in the past. I am very pleased with the fact that the number of committees confirms that it is an overall objective to transfer more transport from road to rail, and I would like to add: this applies to both passenger and freight transport. Indeed, the majority of committees go so far that one says that the vision is to develop the NSB into the most resource-efficient and socially useful transport company in the country – the same as the board of directors have said. This requires largeings and departments to act as professional owners. If we're going to succeed in achieving this very ambitious goal, it's absolutely vital that the NSB succeeds in deploying new train equipment. I would like to mention here that the company has ordered new material for over NOK 4 billion: new tilt trains to Sørlandsbanen, Dovrebanen and Bergensbanennye trains to Rørosbanen, Raumabanen and Nordlandsbanen36 new train sets for local use Some of these tangible investments are to be used for train offers purchased by the State from NSB over the State budget, so-called public purchases, while other investments are for train offers to be made by the company on a purely commercial basis. It will therefore be essential for the NSB to succeed in the heeling process on the three previously mentioned sections. Cranetogens must go completely without public purchases and will be another milestone in the development of the modern rail system here to land. Therefore, provision must be made to ensure that the tiltogens are as successful as that aircraft has been for the subsidiary NSB Gardermobanen AS. The size of its responsibility here will be to allocate sufficient funds to upgrade the three sections of the track. By the way, I have a feeling that only a few days – or maybe just a few hours – exist. There's probably a simpler and more user-friendly name that I know NSB has on the stairs. I have mentioned the majority's ambitious objective for the company. Another crucial element for achieving this is the framework conditions that the railway has in relation to other competing modes of transport. There is good reason to consider both fiscal and other matters that are relevant here. Why is it that the NSB has to pay VAT on the purchase of the new tiltogens, while the airlines are exempt from VAT on the purchase of new aircraft? Why is it that the NSB has to pay an investment levy on the purchase of a new freight wagon, while there is no investment charge on wagon equipment for the truck industry? If we want more goods from the road to the railway, it's true that the NSB on the freight side has to pay more than 30 million annually. NOK in road tax for the use of the network? Maybe the NSB would still have had the timber transport they have lost in the last few days, if this fee had not existed. And finally, why is it that a trailer in international traffic is exempted from customs clearance for transport in Norway — so-called cabotage — while the railway is not? We have to have a proper review of this. The Ministry must urgently make a professional assessment of these questions and submit them to the Stortinget. The aim of this work must be to put in place a charging regime to encourage more rail transport. In other words, all the key issues in the setting we are currently dealing with are the centre parties, SV and the Workers' Party. However, in one question, the centre parties chose to separate layers with the SV and the Workers' Party, namely on the issue of separation and fragmentation of activities. Today's organisational structure, as I said before, saw today's light in 1996 after a compromise between the Christian People's Party, SV and the Workers' Party. These three parties then assumed that ‘the fragmentation or separation of basic services in the companies and essential support functions’, as it called, could not be carried out without prior treatment in the Stortinget. The Workers' Party and SV will repeat this today, while the Centre Parties – and even the Christian People's Party, which participated in this in 1996 – will not. Some explanation has not been given. It's to hope that today's debate will give it. So a little bit about the proposals for the minority – and as usual, I would almost say, it's the Right and Advance Party. One proposal is to ask the Government to make regulatory changes allowing railway transport operations other than the NSB to be carried out. The majority do not support the proposal, but it is not because we believe that only the NSB should operate rail transport. The reason why we are going to vote against today is that the Department has launched a comprehensive investigation into the liberalisation of both passenger and freight transport. It is quite natural to expect this work before any changes to existing regulations. Moreover, I would like to add that the wording of the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party is directly misleading, as it may seem that today only the NSB can operate rail transport here to land. That's not right. In particular, in the case of international freight transport, the network is already open to operators other than the NSB. But as I said, we're going to wait for the work that's now in progress. I register that Right’s proposal to convert NSB BA into a limited liability company and transfer the responsibility for the railway supervision to the Ministry of Labour and Administration is promoted for – I had almost said – n”t time. With computer technology and efficient word processing systems it has become very easy to print the same proposals once in a while. But I want to add: it has not become any more difficult to vote down the same proposals again and again! So finally, the last six months have been a – I would say – adventurous six months for the railway. Not just transport the air train and NSB's trains about 40 pst. by air passengers to and from the Gardermoen, and without the entry into service of the Rome port, but also a number of NSB’s other trains have had a marked traffic growth. This shows that it is possible to get people to the train. With the huge investments now made in new material, I'm sure traffic will increase even more. The plan developed by the board of directors of NSB BA is a plan for the development of what I would call ‘new NSB’. This is absolutely necessary and essential in order to achieve the overall objectives of more rail transport. In this case, ‘New NSB’ with new material and new train offers must be able to expect the State to act as a professional owner of the company. In my opinion, we are on the right track. The job now is to facilitate the continuation of the traffic growth NSB has experienced in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1401	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1404	There were many fine praises from the Workers' Party in this matter here, and most of it is certainly all in agreement. The aim of the Workers' Party was to transfer the transport from road to rail and to develop the NSB into a strong and competitive group. That is a good point of view, which quite a lot of people agree with. But how has the Workers' Party thought this when all the statistics show that even if the NSB were to achieve its objectives and become a useful group, and even if they were to increase traffic by 100 pst, road traffic would be reduced by only 5 pst. The Labour Party does not see realism in the fact that even though they transfer large amounts both to the Railway Agency and to the NSB, as they do today, it is really the road transport that needs money, and the road transport that we should invest in.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1411	The representative Nistad referred to statistics – at least he claimed – that it is difficult to get traffic from road to rail. I want to point out not only statistics, but experiences, as I also did in my post, experiences that we have from the last six months in our own country, which show that it is possible to get people across from road to rail. But it is clear that it requires this assembly to be conscious of its responsibilities and to facilitate further transition to the railway. I can mention keywords as framework conditions for the railway companies and transfers for the purchase of unprofitable services. It is quite clear that we need to maintain the rail service, not least here in the Oslo area, we depend on being given money over the state budget. I want to add: the increase that has been in the last six months, and which we are going to continue, we are able to do without increasing the framework to go to the public purchase of rail transport services. In its investment plans, which include new materials for the local traffic, i.e. new intercity trains, new tilt trains and new diesel trains, the NSB has assumed that the transfers will be approximately at the current level. So my answer must be: it is clear that transport to the railway can be transferred if it is political will. But this house must be conscious of its responsibility and make it easier for it to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1425	Personally, I think you sometimes do the trick of being a little realistic. Although the NSB in Norway seems to be doing well, you might want to deal with reality. It seems a little strange to me when you present the Gardermoban here as a huge success. We will get back to that when we deal with that matter. But the representative of Myrli knows that every ticket will be subsidized by 130 kroner. It is not difficult to make a company in Norway profitable if you can continue to do so. We're all happy that it's been a success, in the sense that many people take the train, but let's keep the height of it within a reasonable tribute. So to this with the 165 drivers in Stortinget: I don't know how many of these 165 drivers have belonged to the Workers' Party over the years. It's not a few. There is hardly any party in this hall that has been on for the railway and talked about details such as the Workers' Party. Actually, I think there's been a problem with the conversion. I think there have been too many good railway friends, who have been friends in that way that they have not made demands on the NSB. I think it's been one of the biggest mistakes we've made. And others who have come up with criticism may have been perceived as being negative to the railway as such. That's not right at all. It is now the cost level of the NSB that is the problem. And on page 30 of the message, it says the following: ‘For both passenger and freight traffic, long-term competitiveness will depend in particular on future unit costs. The NSB currently has a cost level that is very high in both passenger and freight traffic compared to its competitors. This suggests that the NSB focuses on cost-effectiveness and on focusing on fewer areas where one can really specialise.’» Does the representative Inge Myrvoll – excuse me, Sverre Myrli – agree that there is a significant need to reduce costs and improve efficiency in the NSB?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1445	The key from the committee leader by calling me Myrvoll is probably not so serious. I was told by Myrvoll on the road up here that he is doing well for my entire article. But then to the line from Nilsen. First of all, we need to be realistic, but at the same time, I expect this House to have some visions and visions about what we want with rail transport in Norway. Do we want a better offer? Do we want more transition of traffic to the railway? I don't hesitate to say that the Gardermoban is a success. Even with a slight drop now in the last few days, it's 40 pst. of those required to travel by air, driving trains to and from the aerodrome, in addition to that 20 pst. driving a bus, i.e. a collective share of 60 pst. So Nilsen says there have been many so-called chauffeurs in the Workers' Party in this room. That's not a few, he said. I'm not going to hide it. I also said that some reason why one decided in 1996 to have a different management system was that one could no longer control the railway in the way one had done before. But then I'm going to rush to add: Some of the reasons that the Workers' Party's people have acted as drivers – perhaps from that party in the first place – may well be related to the fact that in some other parties there has been no particular burning commitment to the railway. I support what has been said about the need for efficiency and conversion in the NSB. But then I have to add at the same time: if there is any company that has been through major changes and major improvements in efficiency over the last few years, then it is the NSB. And we're not done, I'm going to agree with the committee leader, but we shouldn't pretend that the NSB is a company that lives protected, and that there's no big change. Because that's what it's done.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1460	The representative Myrli is pleased that there is a great deal of agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre on this matter, and I agree with that. He also says that there was disagreement in one area, that of separation or fragmentation, the relationship to essential support functions. I would like to hear what interpretation the Workers' Party has of this with significant support functions. The Christian People's Party and Centre support the Ministry of Transport, which believes that the concept of significant support functions must initially include the activity necessary for the NSB to own itself in order to achieve the vision and objectives set for the basic activity. So we support the department in it. Otherwise, I just have to say that I am very pleased that the centre and the Workers' Party in this matter are so in agreement and so co-ordinated in this respect with the divisions, which the representative Myrli was just in on, namely, a great deal of effort in this important area, in the NSB and on-road transport, which is both environmentally friendly and road-safe.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1469	We are not going to make the big debates, as there is only one section of the representative, Mr Kofoed-Larsen, and I disagree with the vote. But briefly, the Labour Party – and I believe in this post can also speak on behalf of SV – is initially sceptical about what we see largely in the public sector, both municipal, county and state level, that everything should be cheaper if it is separated from the public sector. I have to say, I don't know if that's right, if, for example. should be relevant, that everything relating to property, everything relating to workshop functions, and everything relating to cleaning, should be separated from the company NSB. I repeat, if this is the case. I have no idea that this should be the case, but, as I said, here we have chosen to separate layers. But at the same time, I would like to add: these are not simple issues either. We have made great demands on the company to operate rationally and efficiently. At the same time, the company has and is to a large extent to have the ability to manage its own operations, so the balance sheet here is to find the overall principal lines of the company. We are going to discuss this in this House, while the day-to-day responsibility for how operations are to be organised must be the responsibility of the NSB BA board. But as I said, the goal that we should all have in this work whether we are in this room, in the ministry offices, in the board of directors of the NSB or are employees of the NSB, must be to get more transport on the railway and develop the railway to take even more market shares.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1475	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1478	The representative Sverre Myrli is concerned that the railway pays an investment fee, while a road train does not pay such a fee. This was unfair, he said. What I'm asking is whether it's so much more fair that the NSB receives operating grants from the public, while a trailer doesn't get it. The Government wants the NSB to be one of the leading players in the Norwegian transport market, both in passenger and freight traffic. Not least in view of the need for more environmentally friendly transport, the Government wants to strengthen the role of the railway, both through State ownership of the NSB, through state procurement of passenger transport services, through improvements in infrastructure and through legislation and legislation. The party asking how environmentally friendly the train is, as Norway is today the net importer of electricity as, among other things. come from coal-fired power plants. Nor is the Norwegian terrain easy to build in, and the train will primarily be favourable as an intercity train on short distances and for heavier goods on longer distances. That is why we want a competitive and attractive offer for road users with the same level of performance and funding as for competing companies. This implies a clearer division of responsibilities. A natural third is infrastructure, exercise of authority and business operations. The Progress Party therefore wants more actors, both national and international, to be able to make use of this infrastructure and to believe that the form of the company BA is liquidated for the NSB, so that the NSB is converted into a limited liability company, in order to enable the company to increase efficiency, reduce costs and improve service. The Party of Progress will demonstrate that the Supervisory Body of the Railway Oversight is fully dependent on its objectivity and integrity. If the ministry appears to be both market operator and control body, this will weaken the confidence of an inspection body depending entirely on it. We believe that there should be a goal to avoid a mix of roles by the fact that the same body is both owner and control body. The railway supervision shall also supervise private operators on the market. The responsibility of the State Railway Authority should therefore be transferred from the Ministry of Transport to the Ministry of Labour and Administration. The party of progress is also skeptical about the state being the owner of the NSB. Statens Järnvägen in Sweden lost the competition for commuting in Stockholm. The international company BK Tåg AB takes over local train traffic from 1 January 2000, and from the new year the company takes over the number of SJ employees they need to drive local trains in Stockholm. Swedish authorities estimate saving 250 million. public DKK per year for putting station and train operations on the market. In Norway, the government purchases passenger services for 980 million. kr in the year of the NSB, so tendering should also be a means of saving public expenditure in Norway. The NSB Gardermobanen presented yesterday's first annual result after the company came into operation. The figures show a deficit of 139 million. kr after three months of operation. This year the company is budgeting a deficit of 571 million. kr. Norway's most successful railway, the flight to Gardermoen, has had a fall in passengers after the new year after the price from Oslo to Gardermoen was increased to 90 kroner for full-price tickets. On top of this, these are subsidized by approx. 140 kroner per month Ticket. This subsidisation lacks the bus companies on the same route, but can still compete on both price and comfort. The forwarding party also notes that the NSB has difficulties in keeping its market shares on the freight side. In order to increase their market shares, the NSB must focus on better use of resources in its own organisation and thus improve its competitiveness. It cannot be accepted that the NSB will strengthen its competitiveness by worsening charges and other framework conditions for road transport. Norwegian transport costs are higher than in the nearest competing country and lead to significant disadvantages for Norwegian employment and value creation. The aim must be to reduce the distance burden for Norwegian businesses by reducing transport costs. I would also like to remind you of the significant amounts of car and car use brought into the treasury without it being reflected in better roads. If the railway is to compete, other actors must be allowed on the rail track in equal competition for persons and goods. The Party considers that it is necessary to streamline the use of public transport funds in order to improve the provision of services to consumers. A prerequisite for achieving this is better coordination between the different modes of transport. This requires a coherent view of all public transport. It would therefore be right for the body coordinating public transport to also purchase public services by road, sea or rail. This could bring significant coordination gains, as well as clarifying the liability of public transport. I would also like to emphasise in this context that the future competitiveness of the NSB will depend on the cost-effectiveness of the company compared to other actors. It is very important for the competitiveness of Norwegian industry to reduce transport costs in Norway. A contribution to this would be to allow longer vehicle combinations on Norwegian roads to reduce fuel consumption. It is not acceptable to prevent rational road transport in order to protect the railway from competition. Railways need to improve their competitiveness through internal measures in order to become more cost-effective. Int. S. No 136 for 1997-98 only the Progress Party and the Right were in favour of a full organisational distinction between the NSB BA and the Railway Agency in their respective proposals. I am therefore pleased to note that the central government in the 1999 national budget had reached the same conclusion after one year in the government offices. The Party will otherwise refer to its proposals for regulatory amendments to Document No. 8:46 for 1997-98, proposals by the Landfill Representatives Thore Aksel Nistad and Christopher Stensaker to distinguish economically and administratively between the NSB BA, the Railway Agency and the Railway Authority. The party initially wants to treat the form of the company BA as closely as possible to AS in terms of dividend policy. I would like to put forward proposals on behalf of the Right and the Advance Party. 1, 2, 3 and 4, which is shown in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1506	The representative has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1511	The representative Stensaker also had a little visit to me. It's nice, but it wasn't a completely correct description of the reality that the representative came up with. I pointed out quite correctly to some of the distortions in the charging system, which I believe, for my part, the railway comes to disfavor. So Stensaker says that NSB receives operating grants, and that it does not make a vehicle train. It'll be directly misleading to say that. Yes, the NSB receives operating grants – one may call it – what is called public purchases of government budgets for some specified transport services, but the freight transport of NSB is 100 pst. without subsidies from this house. In fact, the Storting has adopted and laid down as a condition that the freight division of NSB BA should balance. But right, we're going to spend about $1 billion -- $980 million. kr to be accurate in terms of the amount of the year – for public purchases of passenger transport services. This benefits some groups of trains, while other groups of trains are operated at the NSB’s own expense. My question to Stensaker is: if he thinks it's so terrible that the state spends money buying passenger transport services from the NSB, what would the alternative be? We know that it would mean a furrowing of the rail offer in the Oslo area, around the big cities and in the districts, and I'll ask another question to Stensaker. Does he think that local traffic on the Trunder Railway should be cut off? It is not operated economically economically economically. Or does he think that traffic on Raumabanen and traffic on the Rørosbanen should be cancelled because they receive transfers from Stortinget? It's not possible to run the railways with profits everywhere in our kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1520	The representative Sverre Myrli was involved in the investment fee. In my post I did not mention goods with a word. I said that the railway paid an investment fee – while the representative thought it was unfair that car trains did not – and that the NSB received operating grants. You could call it what you want, they'll at least get a subsidy because the government buys passenger transport services. You could say that there are distortions in the charging system. I think that if you look at who receives the most of the public, whether it's passenger transport or other, the railway will cut on the plus. When it comes to unprofitable passenger transport services, I have not told you to put it down. I fully agree that the public should buy these services where it is not profitable for the supplier to operate them. But what we're saying, and what we're talking about, and what we're going to do to our "dead day," is we're specifying what service we want, and we're putting it out for tender. And then it gets to operate that does it the best and the cheapest according to our specifications.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1529	The representative Stensaker asked the question of how environmentally friendly the train is. I think it was a rather bold question to ask. Now the Progress Party is not so concerned about the environment, but when the representative continues to say that he might well have allowed longer vehicle trains on the road, as an alternative, I would like to ask: What kind of environmental problem is there? And what kind of environmental problem would you have been facing on the way beyond Gardermoen if the flight hadn't gone? When we talk about what the flight costs in money today, we also have to see it in the context of an investment in the environment. So the representative Steinsaker said that the Progress Party wants the NSB to transform into an AS, so that they can have the opportunity to streamline, finance and provide better service. Then my question is, can't the company do it today as a BA? Hasn't the company shown that it has the ability to do so, namely to improve efficiency, economic efficiency and better service?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1536	The representative Jan Sahl was in on the environment-friendly train. I was about to ask myself where the fuel for the train came from. That fuel is defective in Norway today, and we get it, among other things. from coal-fired power plants. A train also carries much more tonnage in its own cargo by the fact that the train wagons are heavier than others, it needs more power to pull them. When it comes to longer car combinations, and what the savings are, it is clear. Jan Sahl also knows that you save a lot of fuel by carrying more goods on the same trailer. So it was that we wanted to convert the NSB company into an AS. Sahl wondered if the corporate type BA doesn't do the same job, if you can't compete with others even if you're a BA. Well, you can, but as an AS, you want more freedom to make the necessary changes without asking the public about the law. One can go straight from control to operation and switch faster than one can in an enterprise organized as a BA.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1545	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1548	Who had probably a year ago dared to bet 10 or maybe 100 kroner that the flight half a year after the opening of the main airport at Gardermoen would appear to be a success and the airport as a failure? As one said on the phone to me yesterday, it is the Gardermoban that is the best thing at the Gardermoen. Funny! Otherwise, I do not agree that the airport is a failure – it is not very comprehensive. The flight is a success, and more and more people choose trains instead of planes. NSB BA has a vision for the group to become the country’s most resource-efficient and socially useful transport business. That goal is ambitious, but correct. We need visions for the railway, and we need visions for the NSB. The NSB is in the forefront and has made huge investments. A quantity of new material, which Sverre Myrli had previously been in, shall be put into circulation in the next few years. 36 locomotive trains, main bank trains and tilting diesel vehicles for use on Raumabanen, Rørosbanen and Nordlandsbanen represent very large investments, but are absolutely necessary to meet the competition. In order to enable the company to make better use of the material and to provide travellers with a better offer, it is important that the infrastructure be provided. Krongetogene requires a better line network on Dovrebanen, Bergensbanen and Sørlandsbanen. We promised before the election to set aside $1,600 million. NOK to this during the four-year period in which we are now in. With a more strenuous and pressured economy than we anticipated, we have so far allocated 550 million. kr for the investment and upgrading of the line for the organisation of heel trains. It's not as much as we had hoped for, but it's a good start. So to the customer briefing, which was included in the Section 10-plan: NSB says that various studies are carried out regarding customer satisfaction with the products and quality offered by NSB. That's pretty important. And that's probably still the various improvement point. I would like to take a few small examples: radio in the train so that we can hear News of the Day, serving, also for those who are not so mobile, increased cooperation with local coach companies to ensure food for connecting points. The well-being of the train is important for passenger development, and I will give a great reward to NSB's pleasant staff for their service position. It's a feedback that I'm still getting. But the NSB also has passengers with disabilities – they are also customers. It is important that cooperation between disabled people’s organisations and the NSB is now established. For the Christian People's Party, it is essential that the special needs of the disabled are met in the best possible way, and I would like to stress that it is important that it is done at the earliest possible time in the process, not only in the case of trains, but also in the area of station availability. The Joint Management System for the Railway Agency and the NSB shall be wound up from 1 July 1999. The Board of the Railway Agency is wound up, and the Railway Agency becomes a governing body under the Ministry of Transport. This requires new forms of cooperation, with the necessary coordination and communication between NSA BA and the Railway Agency. Then there was a debate about allowing larger car combinations in the timber transport. This updates the conflict between goods on the road and goods on the road. Unfortunately, NSB BA has not always been able to offer the best offers once new freight contracts have been awarded and on some routes the NSB has lost contracts. We have had major discussions, including: in the case of timber transport. The greatest advantage of the railway is for the transport of large quantities of goods over long distances. Work-intensive reloading makes the railway less competitive on shorter distances. The Christian People's Party will work to strengthen rail competitiveness in freight transport. Investments and improvements in major sections will improve railway competition conditions. The planned new freight terminals in Stavanger/Sandnes and Trondheim will also strengthen NSB’s capabilities. It is also important, as a majority of the Committee stresses, that the Ministry should carry out an assessment of the fiscal aspects and other factors relevant to rail competition with other modes of transport, both in terms of freight and passenger transport, which are already in progress. Railway is a comfortable and environmentally friendly alternative. It provides employment opportunities that neither a bus nor a plane nor a private car can compete with. When the tiltogens are subsequently put into service, we can very well experience that increasing frequency, shorter travel time, work opportunities and comfort will greatly strengthen railway market shares. In that case, it will mean a long step in the right direction for more environmentally friendly transport.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1569	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1572	It was initially a tribute to the Gardermoban in the posts of the representative Kofoed-Larsen. I get it. As I also said in a previous line here: It's a great success, it's very nice that so many people take the course. We must all agree on that. But what surprises me is that even the Christian People's Party does not take into account that here comes a bill to be paid at the seventh and last, and that of course will have meaning for Norwegian transport. In essence, the question to the representative Kofoed-Larsen is very simple: does she think that these costs related to the Gardermoban, possibly debt cancellation and what we have to do in the future will have an impact on Norwegian transport, for example. in District Norway, with regard to investment opportunities? Would it have any consequence, or does she think that this is only «free lunch», free money coming from somewhere?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1580	The representative Oddvard Nilsen takes up the Gardermoban and the large costs that we have in connection with it, and any consequences for district investment in relation to the fact that we also have to cover these expenses with any debt cancellation or other means. We are in the situation that we have to cover some expenses on the Gardermoban. This has been a big project, adopted by the majority of the Storting, and it is clear that we have to look at it. We now have one thing to do about the operation of the Gardermoban and the opening of the Rome sport that we will deal with later in ours, and we will come back to the matter then. But as far as the district bet is concerned, I believe that the representative Oddvard Nilsen and the Christian People's Party share the view that we should have a stake in the districts, including in the field of transportation, in the future from this committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1589	The representative Kofoed-Larsen said the 550 million. kr, which was granted for investment and the organisation of bank trains, was a good start. I don't agree that it's a good start, because the assumption was really that the majority would come at the beginning of the period, and now we're in the middle of the period. But I understood it so that we can trust that these SEK 1.6 billion are in place during this four-year period, so that we can make sure that the framework conditions for crugogens are in place, and that when the Christian People's Party is involved in making a decision, we can trust that they will implement it. The second is under framework conditions – road tax, VAT, investment tax, etc. These are not new issues. It was now said that this is being worked on. The representative Myrli spoke about the urgent need to do something about it – and that is a slightly unclear concept. I wonder if the representative Kofoed-Larsen has a time perspective on when this could come to Stortinget, so that we can create conditions to strengthen the competitiveness of NSA BA on the passenger and freight side, so that we get the traffic transition that a large majority of the committee wants. Is the representative of Kofoed-Larsen counting that this is in place so that we can deal with it, for example. when we get the budget for the autumn – or do I have to ask the Council of State about it later?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1598	The representative Inge Myrvoll and I are largely very much in agreement about the NSB and the stakes on the railway. When it comes to the question of whether we relate to what was said earlier about the 1,600 million. kr in relation to the 550 million. Now that we've been able to input, it's clear that we have to deal with the economic situation in the future as well. To quantify how much is going to be allocated to this sector over these four years, I can't do here and now. But I can say that it is actually one of the areas in which both Inge Myrvoll and I want the greatest bet. Of course, I can't say anything about fees and the time perspective of what the department is going to come back with. There may be others who can say something about it, but I expect that the work being done will come to Stortinget as quickly as possible, so that we can take it into account in the further work to get a solution, among other things. the transport of goods, where we all agree that we want more freight from road to rail. In order to solve this, among other things: this assessment any of the elements at the bottom. I look forward to continued cooperation on precisely these important things for the NSB and the transport.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1607	It's cool not to work together with someone if you can't trust those you're working with – it's that easy! I consider a decision to be a commitment to a government. That is why I only expected one clear answer here, namely that it is clear that this money should be put in place, because we have a decision on that. I assume that once the Christian People's Party has signed a contract with the Right and the Advance Party, they say that this is a contract, we cannot break it. But making a decision in Stortinget that invites NSB BA to order material on the basis of that decision, I consider it a commitment. There's only one answer that's good enough: the money's going to be in place during the period.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1612	The representative Myrli quite rightly says that it's important that we can trust each other, and I guess we can. But I think the representative Myrli, too, has to deal with the economic situation in the country, no matter what else has happened. What I think is important is that the NSB and the Railway Agency – which we are not discussing today – are given such good, predictable framework conditions that they have the opportunity to do exactly what we are all concerned about, namely to facilitate the tilting process, which is now coming in the next few years. So far I've understood it as if the NSB are satisfied with what they've been given – at least satisfied so far that they think it's okay – but it's clear that if we can see that they can get a further increase, I think we're all positive about it. But this is totally dependent on the economic situation, and we're taking it with us. But the bet from 550 million. to 1 600 million. We still want to join, as I said earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1619	I expect that it was the representative of Myrvoll the representative, and not Myrli, although they have expressed one's opinion today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1622	Yes, of course – I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1627	It's okay!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1634	We mean the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1641	It's the same thing!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1648	With this, the line chord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1652	: There is a broad consensus that the railways and the NSB have an important role to play in the Norwegian transport system. This is particularly true in passenger transport in the densely populated areas. In this context, rail can reduce congestion and contribute to better accessibility, better environment and dampened land pressure. This is where the resources in the railway sector need to be invested mainly in the coming years. The disagreement in railway policy is between those who give priority to the efficient use of resources allocated to the railway sector – here in the Chamber represented by the Right and the Advance Party – and the other parties, who accept a lower use of resources, uncertain for what reason. It is very regrettable that, through this, the bulk of the population gives Norway a lower level of rail services, to the detriment of the environment and accessibility. While it is desirable for rail to increase its market share in relation to road traffic, this must be done by making better use of the resources allocated to the railway sector and not by increasing the level of costs of road transport. Unfortunately, the NSB has problems keeping its market share on the freight side. In order to increase their market shares, the NSB must focus on better use of resources in its own organisation and thus improve its own competitiveness. The future competitiveness of the NSB will depend on the cost-effectiveness of the business compared to other actors. It is not acceptable for the NSB to strengthen its competitiveness by worsening charges and other framework conditions for road transport. Norwegian transport costs are higher than in our competitors, resulting in significant disadvantages for Norwegian employment and value creation. It is therefore necessary to aim to reduce the distance burden for Norwegian businesses by reducing transport costs and not increasing them. An important instrument to achieve such efficiency is to release other actors on the rail track. The experience of private access to sectors with State monopolies is very good. They show that the use of resources then improves and the price level decreases. The experience gained from other countries by releasing other actors on the rail track shows that rail competitiveness is increasing when competition is established. In this context, I would also like to refer to the European Commissioner for Transport, Neil Kinnock, who, in a speech to the British Confederation of Industries on 3 November 1998, reiterated his strong belief in the need for continued liberalisation in the transport sector, primarily in the rail sector. It shows that not all social democratic parties are blind to improving the use of resources in the railway sector. Right-wing wants to open up competition in the railway sector and has made proposals to open rail freight and passenger trains other than the NSB. Unfortunately, there is no majority for this in the Chamber. On the other hand, I am absolutely convinced that in the years to come we will see increased liberalisation with increasing competition within the railway track, even though the majority of people do not want it. It makes it necessary to give NSB BA a more competitive governance. On several occasions, the right has proposed to convert the NSB into an AS. Unfortunately, we have not received a majority for that, nor by this crossroads. Today, the country purchases unremunerated passenger transport services from NSB BA. As long as there is only one tenderer in the system, it is difficult to know if you pay the “real” price. The right considers that public purchases should have full competition as a prerequisite and that they should be made through price and quality tenders. This has been done in Stockholm with quite a lot of success. By outsourcing local and commuter agents in Stockholm, the public saves 250 million. kr per. and quality improvement. The numbers speak for themselves, and further comments should almost be unnecessary. It is of course important that the framework conditions for the various transport sectors are designed in such a way that they do not lead to distortions of competition, with an increase in transport costs as a result. The right is willing to see if there are such negative distortive effects. In the case of the investment tax linked to the railway sector, the Right is also willing to look at it. This willingness to promote investment is, on the right, in principle, not in the situation or in the sector. With regard to the road tax and VAT paid by the NSB, this must be seen in conjunction with the charging regime and framework conditions of other modes of transport. But we don't want to deny that you should look at these overall in a context. I would also like to point out that, under a regime of competition on the track, the road charge should of course be maintained – in order to be able to charge for the use of the infrastructure, as required by other users of the infrastructure in the transport sector. The right-hand side expects the NSB’s roll-out effort to be economically profitable. I would like to stress that future appropriations for the State budget for railway purposes – which is also the case for the whole transport sector – must be seen in the context of the current economic situation in the country. This suggests that financial resources are only available once the Storting has taken its annual appropriations decisions. Of course, such assessments must be based on all actors in the transport sector, including NSB BA. The right is concerned that the NSB BA has not achieved the efficiency objectives to which the Storting has agreed in the implementation of the conversion programme ‘Effekt 600’. I would like to stress the need for continued efficiency of the NSB and ask the Ministry to follow developments very closely. The question of the use of longer car combinations has become a topic in this setting – this despite the fact that this case is out for consultation as I know it, and common practice should indicate that a expected result of this. The right will, of course, wait and take a final position on the matter when it is investigated and presented through the Directorate of Road and the Department. The audience has accepted the Gardermoban very well, and it is very happy. However, it must be emphasised that very high environmental and economic costs are linked to the track. The track benefits from special economic arrangements because the passengers are heavily subsidized. Prior to the opening of the tracks, the company was charged NOK 1.6 billion in debt to NSB Gardermobanen AS. In addition, the company is in the unique situation that the larger the deficit NSB Gardermobanen AS is recovering, the larger the future debt cancellation will be. It must be stressed that there is hardly a model for future follow-up. Otherwise, I will come back to the Gardermoban in more detail in connection with the message Stortinget has for treatment. Although the bulk of the population in this round puts an effective stop to the necessary structural changes in the railway sector – which we in the Right believe are absolutely necessary, and which we are absolutely convinced must come, it will force itself – not the image completely – completely – black. On 1 July, a full organisational distinction between NSB BA and the Railway Agency is implemented. This is a reorganization Right long has fought for, and it's a pleasure that the majority of the population has finally come to a conclusion that's identical to the one we've had for many years. I could have made an infinitely long list here of measures proposed by the Right, related to the NSB – efficiency improvement, BA, AS and all of this put in. What I've always wondered is why it has to go so terribly long before this magnification is willing to make decisions for the benefit of the NSB.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1690	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1693	The chairperson of the committee stepped into the framework conditions for railway operations. As I also mentioned in my post, there are a number of things to review both on the fee page and on the design of the laws and regulations. Then we can disagree or agree on the different measures. Another discussion that has now been properly updated is the possible introduction of 25,25 metres in length of vehicle trains. We have recorded through the media yesterday that the road manager has said that he will propose that it open for lengths up to 25.25 meters. This is almost praiseworthy in the setting that we have to deal with today. It says: «The experience from Sweden and Denmark is good.» I would like to hear from the committee leader about the kind of experience that has been done specifically in Denmark with this. As far as I know, only Sweden and Finland have introduced vehicle trains with a permissible length of up to 25,25 metres. So, as I said, I would like to see the committee leader deepening the good experience that has been gained in neighbouring countries with such long carriages, and in particular what kind of experience Denmark has.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1707	Let me first say this with regard to the first part of the question, which dealt with possible distortions of charges: I think I was reasonably clear in my post, I said we are willing to look through this. I'm counting on the department to do that as well. If it is that the tax regime in Norway somehow allows cost distortions to the detriment of one transport, we will of course have to look at it. Right is a lot that wants full competition in this area. We believe that competition is the most effective way of exploiting the resources of society. So of course we're willing to look at this if there's anything in the system that makes you like one transport, because it's economically unreasonable to do. In terms of the investment fee, I said it is independent of industry or sector. We are and have been against the investment tax, because we believe that we should stimulate investment, not charge them. We also remember the history behind the investment tax, why it was brought into its time – it was actually to reduce investment. We think that's a crazy way to do it. We should do it another way today. So that's what we're willing to look at in total. So this is a 25.25 meter train. The truth is – and I say it honestly – that we as a party had not intended to comment on this in the setting at all. It was actually the majority who provoked a statement from us. I think I have also stated in the past that we wanted that matter resolved. But when it's black, it's like this society has put considerable money into road capital in this country. And it's also important that the capital you're cutting is used in the most efficient way, that is, that road capital in Norway is used to achieve what is meant by the investment, namely reduced transport costs. In addition, there is also an environmental aspect to this, and the Committee is well aware that calculations have also been made by the Joint Transport Users’ Body showing the environmental benefits of these vehicle combinations, for example. for the transport of timber. It's a nuanced picture of this, but we're going to get the answer when the investigation is in place.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1716	The representative Oddvard Nilsen expressed himself almost as if it was not completely – and he repeated completely – black for the operation of the NSB today, it was a light point, that is, the division that was to come. Now it seems to me that there were some more points of light. Traffic with the Gardermoban was also a hot spot, then on a black background, as far as I could interpret the representative. He was convinced that increased liberalisation of access to the track will come, and no one in this Chamber disagrees with that either. I also think that eventually needs to get there, and as far as I know, it's also a prerequisite for NSB's operation. They expect competition to come on track gradually, and they will match that competition. But at the same time, we're in a strong investment period for the NSB and a strong transition period. And I would like to ask the representative, Oddvard Nilsen, why is this liberalisation being pushed forward in the middle of this strong transition period for the NSB?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1724	It was nice that the representative Sahl realized that there were some flashes of light, because it was actually meant to be. I have tried to say several times today that in no way is there any blackness in the NSB. I think it's very much to enjoy, especially related to this with attitudes, just to how to operate efficiently and economically and do this well. Here I think there's been a dramatic change in the business, and in that way I'm happy. So the picture is not like that. In the setting, there was something about ownership, among other things. by the majority. Yes, of course, I believe that the state as an owner should be a very demanding owner. So if I could be perceived as critical of the NSB from the pulpit at Stortinget, that's the owner's job I'm trying to do. I have to make the demands that I think the NSB is good at. I don't think the NSB has earned anything because no one claims them. I think it's actually some of the lessons of history that you haven't asked for the NSB in the past, and then it's evolved structures like it says to read about in the setting. It says, in fact, that you still have a governance structure that is not quite good. Well, then let's look at it. It's at least one of the concessions that stands there. So my answer to this is that it's just the owner role we're looking at. I believe that it is incredibly important, whether it is a private or a public owner, to have a very critical attitude towards the company and to make demands for return on capital and for internal management of everything. There are many ways we disagree. There I think in many ways the majority in the Grand Duchy does not make the necessary demands. Even in the case of the conversions themselves, we have not achieved the results in many ways. It is quite simply here that the objective of the conversion programme «Effekt 600» has not been achieved, and then, as a proxy, one must be allowed to go to the pulpit and say that this is not a matter of satisfaction, and in that way carry out the ownership as I and the Right believe the ownership should be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1733	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1736	The total volume of transport in the country has increased sharply in recent years. A lot of this increase is going to happen. So it's a pity in those parts of the country where one also has a railway, that some of the transport is transferred from road to road. It is a pleasure that, in recent years, there has been a growth in shorter rail travel around the big cities and for medium-term travel. When, on the basis of a social assessment, the Government will concentrate the infrastructure effort on the most crowded areas, this will be in line with the Norwegian Railway Plan 1998-2007, and there will also be a strengthening of the railway in the areas where the development is positive today. In these areas, which are the most densely populated, it is also particularly important to get more traffic on public transport in order to relieve the burden on the road network. At the same time, I share the government's wish that the railway should continue to play an important role in the southern railway, the Dovrebana and the Bergensbana. On the freight side, it has been found that the railway has had difficulties in being competitive in relation to road transport. But in order to avoid increased road congestion, I support the Government, which is engaged in facilitating the transfer from road to path of several fixed transports of large quantities over longer distances. I have noticed that the NSB in its Section 10 plan believes that there are several things about today's VAT rules that are distorting competition in the disfavor of rail transport. It should be clarified whether this is the case, and the Centre Party is therefore involved in a plurality which has pointed out that it is important that the Ministry assesses fiscal and other factors which may be decisive for the railway’s competition with other modes of transport, both in the case of freight and passenger transport. In the work to be done in this area, it is essential to consider, as the Government points out, that there should be the most competitive neutrality in relation to other modes of transport. The majority point to the fact that on some routes NSB car traffic runs a bus parallel to the train in the setting. As the majority point out in this context, it is of course necessary to look at closer cooperation between the operation of trains and the operation of cars in NSB BA. In debates concerning the activities of NSB BA, it is not to be avoided that the issue of increased competition on the rail network comes up. There is then reason to recall, as a majority of the Committee has made in the comments, that much of the Norwegian network is already open to operators other than NSB BA. This applies in particular to international freight transport. As the majority refer to in the comments, we are also aware that the Ministry of Transport has seen a distribution involving both national and international passenger and freight transport, in which the liberalisation of access beyond what is currently the case should be assessed. I see it as perfectly natural to await this distribution before proceeding with the assessment of further liberalisation. The central part and the rest of the center are associated with the Labour Party and the Left Party on most of the notes in the options. In the Central Party, we will work towards further developing NSB BA to become a strong and competitive group. We'll work on the implementation of the decisions that are taken and that are decisive for a positive development for NSB BA. We will also work to ensure that there are conditions of competition that can be compared between different modes of transport, but we believe that it must be assessed whether it is socially viable to ensure rail transport, on the basis of road and environmental considerations, as the message also states.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1759	The majority of the Committee shares an overall objective of transferring transport from road to rail. This majority notes that road transport has increased dramatically and sees it as crucial to reverse this trend. That's good, but then it's the step from thinking it, wishing it, it would be – the ability you don't have to do it. Now it can be said that NSB BA is going to do it. Yes, but they have to have the prerequisites to get the job done. We have a responsibility in terms of the Railway Agency and investments. I'm not going to start quoting all the goodwill that's in the setting, and that's launched from this pulpit, both because the railway station is not a theme, and because five minutes is exceptionally short for a complete railway station. Let me therefore leave the Railway Agency and the infrastructure, leave the medieval infrastructure where it swings forward with a few crossing tracks, lack of maintenance and other important framework conditions that NSB BA has to live with, and move over to NSB BA. I think it's happening very much exciting. There's a big material renewal going on. It'll be good to get the new stuff, sail if it has to go on old medieval tracks. There is also a good deal of exciting offers that are developing. I'm kind of thinking about market shares and how to reach them, and trying to differentiate it from which groups to reach. I think in many ways it happens very exciting. I am pleased that the majority of the committee is asking the Ministry to file a case on road tax, VAT, investment tax and cabotage. I am less pleased that the majority of the committee does not set a deadline. These are not new issues, these are not new issues, but these are issues that you have pushed ahead of you, and I think you should make a decision. What surprises me a little is that, among other things, The representative of the Central Party and others here talk about competition neutrality, etc. I would believe that with the objective we have, and the desire to move transport from road to road, we should go further. That the Right wants to talk about neutrality, I understand, but we should go further and say that the mode of transport that we want to strengthen should have a competitive advantage. That should be the goal. We know that the Ministry of Finance thinks otherwise. But we who want a form of transport strengthened, should actually give it an advantage and be erased no disadvantages. If it's the case that we're worried that goods go from path to path, while we want the opposite, it's our duty to do something about it and to facilitate that it can happen, not just sit and look at what's bad, because there's no accident, it's the result of a failed policy that we get corrected. I am pleased that the committee majority signal that it is not desirable for longer and heavier vehicle combinations. It was a wonderful experience when we traveled by car trains down the Østerdalen and heard about the poor carrying capacity on the road, where the car trains rolled over when they came on the edge – not on the outside of the road, but on the edge of the road – and you were dissatisfied with the curve and all that. And then you have to have longer and heavier car trains! So in those places in the country where we depend on road traffic, where we don't have rail, we can't use the car trains, and the roads on which we can use them, go parallel to the railway and twist the competition in the wrong direction. In the case of tilt trains and investments there, I have included it in a line. I just expect the Council of State to confirm that the collapse decision of NOK 1.6 billion is pending. But what surprises me is that I didn't get the committee to say anything about betting on regional trains, which the majority of the committee thought was right a few years ago. Does that mean you've turned around? Or does that mean that you don't want to keep the promise and say anything about it? I've been wondering where the center parties and the Workers' Party are. There is talk of tilting trains, ‘Oslo – Stockholm 2000+’ and close traffic, but there is nothing to say about regional trains. I'm also a little disappointed that the Christian People's Party will no longer stand on the interpretation of the agreement that was concluded when we transformed into NSB BA. I expect the partners to be trusted. As for the Center Party, they weren't in on it, and that's because they didn't want NSB BA, they wanted even more control. But now they do not agree that the Storting should have a political treatment of fragmentation and separation. It's a little bit surprising. I can't stand to say anything about the Gardermoban. But I think it is wonderful when you go to the Gardermoen and sit on the left side and see the train danger past the cars that look like they are parked on the road. I'm looking forward to 200 kilometers per hour and an open Roman sport.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1785	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1788	The representative Inge Myrvoll says, as I understand him, that we have a responsibility towards the NSB. We probably have the same situation as today. But I would rather say that we have a responsibility towards the users, the users of public transport, including the railways. My problem is that we lack satisfactory roads and offers to Utkant-Norway in areas where the railway cannot go. Does Myrvoll think it is right that the railway should seize as much of the public money as could have been used to remedy the situation in District Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1796	I particularly appreciated that question. To say it like this: I think we're building roads in the wrong places in this country. We use most of the road investment in central struts. In 1989, when I started here, I spent 25 pst. by the national measures in the north of Norway. Now it's down to 13 pst. And it's under the responsibility of the labor party government and the center government. The districts are down-priority on the roadside. At the same time, all railway resources are used in central areas. And that's more natural, because the little thing that's used to invest on the railway, we have to use where it gets the most effect. There's too little use on the railway, and there's a lot of unsolved problems here. But the problem is that the representative Steinsaker has not realized that it is the re-disposal of the use of the drugs that is insane, not the use of money on a rail transport that we really need. And if this hadn't been a reply, I could of course go through the consequences if we didn't have a good close traffic here in the Oslo area, if we were to have the rest of the freight across the road and all that. We're going to have a railway strategy where we use the railway where it has its strength, and then we have to get built roads out in those districts that have neither road nor rail. To say as a good friend of mine in Sogn and Fjordane, there's so much talk about walking and cycling. We do, but that's the way we're missing!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1807	It was essentially Inge Myrvoll's little kick to the Center Party that made me take a line. He turned negative to competition neutrality, and perceived it to be negative. I do not know if one can agree on the following: If one imagines that some transport branches in Norway would have higher transport costs and thus be subsidized above the tax code in some way, this would lead to the final bill being higher for the consumer. I think we have to agree with that. If you don't run the most economically but do it differently and get higher costs than you need, the bill will be higher. As well as the whole of SV's policy, there is a lack of it. I thought we agreed that in this country we need primarily economic value creation in mainland Norway when our oil revenues sink. And we all know that one of the critical factors in Norway is the transport costs. Does Inge Myrvoll agree that his way of seeing this will result in an increase in transport costs in Norway, and that this will make the potential for economic value creation in mainland Norway worse and weaken our competitiveness?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1818	What's a little important here is to listen to what others say. I am a supporter of providing rail with a better framework for freight and passenger services. I have not thus said that I want more expensive transport for those who do not have the railway as an alternative. I think it's important what the representative Nilsen says, that for large parts of the country there are large transport costs, and large parts of the country depend on the road as a transport year. They have no alternative to the road if they are not talking about a large quantity, and the time limits allow you to use a boat. I am not interested in giving business increased costs. What I'm interested in is that if we want to move on to rail transport, we have to facilitate it without necessarily making the road more expensive. So to neutrality. Now you can say that if you look at what the railway has to say on the environment, the road safety side, etc., and put it in, it should give the railway an advantage. It is important that such elements are included in the assessment, because there is a high cost on the road side when considering environmental impacts and road safety. Neutrality is a pretty exciting thing. I read statements and communications from the Ministry of Finance about this. To give an example: when comparing gas with petrol, they measure CO2 emissions. So it turns out that gas doesn't give so much less emissions, and that's why it doesn't get so much cheaper. Then there will be no advantage in switching to gas, even though it has a lot of other elements in it that make us want to bet on gas. But the difference is so small because it has to be competitively neutral, and you use mathematics instead of political goals – this as an example. Competitive neutrality destroys the possibilities. When you use economists to figure this out, you destroy the possibilities of switching to other forms of transport, to other fuels that you want to use, etc., because you use mathematics and not political goals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1831	The representative Inge Myrvoll asked in his article questions about the 1600 million. kr, which we have been in several times in relation to the arrangement for tilting. In the United Kingdom, it is true that it is the annual budgetary procedures and decisions, in the light of previous decisions and with clear assumptions in the current or the year’s economic situation, that determine what we can achieve by decision-making — i.e. the annual budgetary decisions. And I have to ask, how does SV and Inge Myrvoll relate to such situations? Does SV take its decisions completely independently of the economic situation and conditions elsewhere in society? Will they say that they can take responsibility for taking decisions that are completely irresponsible in relation to the economic situation? The Christian People's Party will invest what we can – within the economic framework conditions that we have, and within the economic situation that is in the country – in providing the best possible framework conditions for the tilting process, which both SV's Inge Myrvoll and the Christian People's Party are engaged in. But I would like to hear what SV's Inge Myrvoll says about decisions in Stortinget, which should be taken, in my opinion, with a background in the economic situation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1844	I'm pretty much satisfied with the budgets we're presenting. We have even received commendation in the executive position in the business world today for keeping a good budget balance. It might not have gotten SV a few years back. In the last few years, I think we've been good at that. And then, of course, we also need to give priority, both to getting income and spending. The first piece, the income, is also not that important. Now, it's the case that the decision to raise the issue has a slightly special validity. When we deal with the railway plan and the road plan and all that, it's very much in the form of a comment, which is indicative. Then there is a part that is in the form of decisions – and to what is in the form of decisions, I really don't think you can just talk about ‘the economic situation’. In that case, priority must be given to putting it in place, if the Stortinget does not actually have the chance to take a different decision. A decision shall be binding on the government which sits. And it will feel committed to the government parties that are here, and even if they are in a minority government, they should be obliged to decisions made by the Storing and that they have even been on board. Then there's one thing that amazes me. In some areas, there is no mention of the economic situation. I have never heard them talk about the financial situation of the cash support. Then it's just to spend money regardless of the economic situation. But in the case of large-scale decisions, which are taken here, now for tilt trains, we are talking about the ‘economic situation’. Now I believe that if this central government stops cooperating with the Right Party and the Advance Party, it is also possible to pursue a tax and income policy that allows you to spend money, so that not everything goes to increased private consumption in this country, while bets on the public sector are suffering. But then the government parties get to find other partners – as they have actually done in the setting up of this NSB BA case, as well as in the postal matter. And it shows that the Right and Advance are on the sideline. Make sure they are when the budget comes too!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1857	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1860	Through the Kyoto agreement, we have committed ourselves to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. In order to implement our part of this agreement, it is important to stimulate the most environmentally friendly transport. For the Left and Government, it is a goal that the NSB should be one of the leading players in the Norwegian transport market, both before passenger and freight traffic. This is why we want to strengthen the role of the railway through the ownership of the state, the purchase of passenger transport services, the improvement of infrastructure and legislation. It is a pleasure that more and more people chose the railway as a means of transport. There has been a larger increase in passenger traffic to the NSB. Presse points out that this is due to a political loss, Gardermoen, and that therefore we have no reason to rejoice. This I choose to ignore. Who doesn't think about big delays and chaos at Oslo Central Station a year ago? The attention is now focused on Oslo Airport Gardermoen. Of course, it is also an objective to get the most out of freight traffic on the railway. Almost all increases have occurred on the roadside. This owes many things, and is similar in many countries. We know that the average speed of freight by rail in Europe is about 16 km per hour, so it's getting a low point. Of course, this is not good enough when the ‘just in time’ principle exists in many companies. The government wants to get more of the freight on the railway. The government is now identifying factors that act on this development. It is important for one to be able to put in place next time measures that can make the NSB more competitive. The NSB also needs to go through its operations to see if there are any factors that could be improved. Cross-border cooperation is also important, and Nordic cooperation to develop common infrastructure and traction equipment is therefore very positive. The NSB is in strong competition with both road and air traffic. In order to meet this competition, the NSB must provide for organisational and material renewal in order to improve capacity, punctuality, regularity and faster transport solutions. Only in this way can the NSB achieve its objective of becoming the most resource-efficient and socially useful transport company in the country. The Ministry has set up a facility to assess further the liberalisation of access to the Norwegian network. This may also lead to increased competition on the track. The majority also ask that the department give priority to making a full distinction between the NSB BA and the Railway Agency. The requirement for this to happen is adequate and necessary coordination between the two companies. It is stipulated in the Railway Act that provision should be made for the provision of information and movement barriers as far as this is possible. In practice, it has been shown that this has not always been as easy to achieve. The Gardermoban, which has somehow become the NSB's flagship, is very sloppy to come on. It is probably true that there is a vehicle with a lift to assist wheelchair users. But it is very important to think of those who are physically handicapped without using a wheelchair. For example, the large group of older faithful users of trains and buses. It is very promising that a contact group has now been created to work on these questions. Users must not only get involved in cooperation at an early stage, which they say must be taken seriously. One must also consider means of research and development and research and development contracts, so that we use the best technology available and are forward-looking. In terms of return and exchange, the majority are in agreement with the Ministry and the Board of Directors of NSB BA that one does not intend to make an exchange from the company and that any surplus in the year and next year will be used to strengthen and develop the rail supply.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1879	The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is soon to come. The President will propose that this morning's meeting be extended until today's file is completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1882	St.meld. No 19, which form the basis for today’s treatment of Inst. S. No 138, take apart different areas of NSB BA. The rapporteur, Myrli, gave a thorough introduction to the challenges facing NSB BA. Nevertheless, I find it necessary to take a closer look at the transport of goods on the NSB, in parallel with the carriage of goods by road. The case has not been considered at least in the case map since the end of the contract for the transport of timber. For example, from Hallingdal, after April 1st, there was an annual increase in heavy traffic of about 2,200 vehicle combinations each year with timber and plank. This is in addition to the general road freight traffic. I understand that it worries people, and our commitment has been great. People don't understand what's happening when we politicians argue for more goods on trains – yes, most parties may also have it in their programs – while the opposite is the case in practice. It's not that easy for people to understand the difference between life and learning. The NSB Freight Division has received a signal from this house to balance its business. I think it's okay. But it must mean in practice that as long as we do not have a level playing field between the NSB goods and the truck industry, the train will be the loser. It is politicians – we are – who can change the framework conditions and facilitate equal competition. Only then will we get the environmental benefit, a gain that people understand, and that is desirable. I find a reason to comment on the transport of timber. These are short-range transports and several reloads from the production site. Maybe it's not the easiest transport to compete for, but the railway has its advantage on the long distances. The organization for exactly this must continue. Yes, most fixes will be available at the drop-down menu. I'm thinking about long enough crossing tracks, and big enough tunnels to take international containers. Now we don't have to paint NSB's cargo black. They have a lot of major transport contracts in place lately. The government has expressed its wish for more goods to be turned over on the long distances by the government. The message also contains thoughts about international transport – the Freeways project. Freight terminals in Sandnes and Trondheim must also be in place as soon as possible. Otherwise, it doesn't help with the good thoughts. I allowed myself, as also the representative Myrvoll did, to site freely from Ibsen's Peer Gynt a known stanza: ‘Yes, think it; wish it; would it; but do it!’ Probably most of the parties, including the Working Party, have a job to do in order to get more than fine words in celebrations for the years to come. The result must be more goods on the track – now!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1904	Others have already described the transformation process for the NSB well. With submitted by St.meld. No 19 for 1998-99, the Ministry of Transport presents the first notification of the activities of the NSB group. The Government wants the NSB to be one of the leading players in the Norwegian transport market, both in passenger and freight traffic, and believes that a strong and competitive NSB group will still be the best guarantee to achieve the objective of transferring transport from road to road, with a view to a more environmentally friendly transport policy. I have noted the comments of the Committee on Transport in the Inner East. S. No 138, and is pleased that the majority supports the main lines of the Communication. Within specified framework conditions, the NSB shall operate in accordance with business-economic principles. Predictability of the development of railway infrastructure and the purchase by the State of passenger transport services is central to the framework conditions of the NSB. It is also important that fiscal conditions ensure, as far as possible, a level playing field for the railway sector in relation to other modes of transport. By focusing on the development of railway infrastructure, inter alia: on the southern, Dovrebanen and Bergensbanen long-distance routes, with the provision of tilt trains, the Government wishes to facilitate the real competitiveness of the railways for alternative modes of transport, both in passenger and freight transport between the major cities. However, although there is currently little competition in the rail sector in Norway, the market situation of the NSB must be considered to be highly competitive as a result of competition from road, air and sea transport. In addition, the ‘Freeways’ cooperation will involve liberalisation of the rail freight market and it is expected that this could lead to increased competition for the good activities of the NSAs. From April 1999, the Eastfold Railway, Ofotbanen and Kongsvingerbahnen are included as Freeways corridors on the Norwegian side. In order to meet the increased competition in the transport sector, the NSB is proposing a renewal of the stock park. In addition, considerable emphasis is placed on developing connecting points in both passenger and freight traffic. In total, this represents an investment of SEK 6.3 billion, as others have mentioned earlier. In its position, the majority of the Committee points out that it has been taken into account to cover the capital costs associated with the tangible investment within the planning framework of the Norwegian Railway Plan 1998-2007. I would like to stress that this only applies to the train equipment to be used in the traffic covered by the system of state purchase of passenger transport services. The majority of the Committee points out that they have noticed that local and intercity rail traffic had a positive development in 1997. Although there has been a positive traffic trend in the last few years, there is still a need to strengthen the competitiveness of the company. In this context, it is important that the board of directors of the company be given the freedom of action necessary to carry out the conversion deemed necessary. To the extent that there will be a need for organisational changes affecting the basic services themselves, if necessary, I will present this to the Stortinget. As a general meeting of NSB BA, I generally add to a general follow-up of the company’s ownership rather than a detailed management of the company’s business strategy and activities. The governance shall contribute to the achievement of the country’s objectives of ownership and the proper management of the capital by the company. Return and dividend policies are seen as important instruments of governance in the overall follow-up of the company’s owners. The Ministry of Transport has calculated that the State as an investor could require a nominal return of 6,8 pst. the NSB’s bookd equity of the group. The NSB Gardermobanen AS is currently not covered by this requirement, as a balance sheet assessment of the company is expected. NSB’s forecast profits for the years 1999 and 2000 will largely depend on gains from sales of operationally independent assets. At the discretion of the Ministry, these are gains that should be relocated to operationally dependent assets in order to contribute positively to enhancing the competitiveness of the NSB as a transport operator. It is therefore foreseen that no dividends will be drawn from the company for the years 1999 and 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1938	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1941	It is today, also from the Council of State, said a lot – and very well – about the company NSB BA. If we are to succeed in achieving the goals of the company, I believe there is little disagreement that it is important to deploy the infrastructure, and that the situation is now the most precarious around Oslo. It is not possible to drive more trains on the Eastfold Railway or to Gothenburg without building a new double track between Oslo and Ski. And it is not possible, whether we like it or not, to get more train traffic on the Vestfoldbahnen, Sørlandsbanen and Bergensbanen without building a new double track between Skøyen and Asker. New double tracks from Asker are absolutely crucial to get in place. For the company NSB BA, too, this is of fundamental importance. The so-called Oslopak II outlines how this can be done. On a question from me here in the Chamber on 1 April last year, Minister for Transport Dørum said: ‘My objective, therefore, is to promote the case during the spring period 1999.’» Last week, the Department sent a letter to the Directorate of Road with a number of questions to be answered about Oslopackak II, with the deadline for replying on 1 November, i.e. a further six months in addition to the year and a half that the Department has already spent on the matter. The following day the letter was deliberately withdrawn, with the argument that it should never have been sent. And to take a little strong in, President: the husband of the clumsy proceedings shall a long look after! The Minister of Transport must now clean up this matter. My question is: what happens to Oslopackak II after the doubt the department has now sown? And when can it be expected that the Storting will be dealt with?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1956	Governments agree that there is a lot of good going on in the NSB. Furthermore, the Council of State agrees that there is a precarious nature around the Oslo area in terms of accessibility and the possibilities of maximising the use of transport options. The Council of State is determined that what is presented to the Storting should be as accurate and as concrete as possible. This means that both the underlying numbering material and the local decisions taken must be complete and correct. In other words, there is a need for a couple of meetings with both Akershu County and Oslo City to clarify the basis for some of the decisions to be taken in connection with Oslopackakte II. In addition, the Transport Committee in Stortinget has asked for an overview of the toll projects applied for in connection with ongoing work, forthcoming work, or coming to the Road Directorate and the Ministry of Transport. This answer should have gone to Stortinget today. There, the Council of State notes that no toll financing has been applied for for Oslopackak II until today. With regard to the letter itself, there was a basis for a debate and a conversation to be conducted, not for a conclusion. The conclusion is reached after the necessary clarifications have been made and the basis for the promotion of Oslopackak II for Stortinget has been clarified.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1965	In recent times, NSB has lost some large contracts on the freight side, for example: in the area from which I come. There are major environmental disadvantages and, in particular, road safety. In addition, this leads to excessive wear and maintenance costs on an already poor road network. Is the Council willing to consider placing parts of – I say parts of – both freight and passenger traffic at NSB on the market, as is done in Sweden? Or does he intend to open the grid to other actors in competition with the NSB? The distinction between the NSB and the Railway Agency is well known on 1 July of this year. Or is the Council of State of the opinion that it is best to continue with an NSB that we have today – a well-protected monopoly – with the result that there will be increasing traffic on the road network?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1975	The competitive situation on rails is being reviewed and assessed. It means, in other words, that the Council of State is aware that it would be right within a reasonable time to return to the Grand Duchy with an assessment of, among other things, the situation. the questions raised by the representative Nistad. In the case of losses in competition between the various carriers, the Council of State recalls that there is free competition in domestic freight transport. There have been no signals from the Storting, nor have any special things been done by the Government to facilitate additional subsidisation or transfers to the transporter on rails to improve their competitiveness. Since competition is free, we can risk the short journeys, where the car has its advantage, coming out better than the long journeys, where the railway has its great advantage. However, the conclusion of the Council of State must be that when free competition was opened up on the freight side, discrimination between different carriers was also opened up in situations where there is no possibility of competing on the price. If the Storting against Presumptive wishes to introduce new subsidies on freight transport, it is right that the Storing should say so. Today and until now, this has not happened.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1984	Today’s Business Today, April 21, under the heading ‘More competition in transport’, a seminar held in Trondheim, where the Council of State has underlined, as the article at least shows, that there is a desire for more competition in the transport sector. Of course, the Right is positive and good. It then remains to be seen what will come out of it. One might say that the experience from the first case we dealt with today, related to the ferries, is not the most positive with our eyes. But it is also to be investigated, and as we say in the West: 'There is hope in hanging cords'. So maybe something comes to the harvest that can be positive for consumers. But then a little bit of the same problem that the representative Nistad was dealing with. The message reads as follows: ‘The government believes that a strong and competitive NSB group will still be the best guarantee for transferring transport from road to road with a view to a more environmentally friendly transport policy.’ So, as the representative Nistad pointed out, there has been a development that most of us perceive as unfortunate from an environmental point of view, namely that the NSB is constantly losing contracts on freight transport. My question to the Minister for Transport is a bit rhetorical: How long will he sit and watch that the NSB loses these contracts and the goods are transferred on the road, which we initially believe is more environmentally hostile? Would it be right to introduce competition simply to test the non-competitiveness of the NSB leading to this unfortunate development? Or do you just want to sit and watch things go wrong both in terms of transport costs and environmental costs? I also know that the Transport Users' Joint Organisation has raised this issue – an organisation that represents all modes of transport, and that cannot be suspected of speaking exclusively on the roadside.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e1996	Although the Government is constantly assessing the situation, in the matters currently under discussion, we have taken into account the guidelines and guidelines laid down by the Stortinget. Personally, I strongly want us to get more heavy transport from road to track, not least for environmental reasons. But as long as we have a full, open competition, one must either accept that one loses in competition at price, or one must be willing to go in and subsidize or support a special organization, a special enterprise, which one wants to win in a special situation, and then on the basis of an environmental argument. I see clearly the unfortunate thing about the loss of contracts by the NSB, and we will follow this closely in the future. But then I would like to remind you that the NSB is most exposed to competition today from what I mentioned in my main post, from the car mainly, partly from the boat, on the person side from the aircraft – and so we could continue. So, to say that the NSB does not have competition and is currently exposed to competition is wrong in my opinion. It is just that we are using a closed concept of competition, ‘on rail’, in the context that we have seen today that competition has been called for. I will promise to follow closely the contractual situation for the railway in the future and come back to Stortinget with this in an appropriate form if it feels right that public authorities are now intervening.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e2005	There has been some discussion about the black paint of the situation in NSB BA etc. today. I have to say that I see more points of light in NSB BA than I see in this room when it comes to railway policy and getting to something. I thought I would be a little concrete in my questions. Governments talked about subsidies. But what has now been asked by the majority is to look at road taxes, VAT, investment taxes and cabotage issues. If you look at it and find solutions there, you might have improved the NSB BA's competitive situation both on the freight side and on the person side. What I could imagine asking is: does the Council of State see any time perspective for when you can present this to the Storting? I think these are old things that you really shouldn't have to spend so much time promoting. My appeal is – and I join the representative Sverre Myrli – that this is happening ‘fastest’. So the question is: what is the time perspective of the Council of State? In the case of loss of contracts, only the road charge is approx. 7 pst. the costs of the timber contracts lost by the NSB. If you also look at things like investment taxes, etc. in material terms, it is clear that there are significant cost savings if something is done about it. My second question is very brief: can we trust that the Government will follow up the decision to raise the figure of SEK 1.6 billion that has been taken when it comes to the organisation of tilting trains? Simply put, can we expect the Government to respect that decision?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e2016	The government has respect for the Storting. The decision of the Storting will have to be followed up by the Government, unless the Storting amends its decisions. Before it has amended its decisions, the Government is obliged to follow them up. But then I have to remind you of one thing, and that's that the appropriations are given from here. The laying of planning frameworks, and the sketching of amounts, have many of us from many years in the Storting experience are important and correct. However, until each year's appropriations are in place, we cannot lock the level of appropriations and take out the funds of the year in question. Let me say about charges: In order to ensure the most competitive neutrality in relation to other modes of transport, the Government will assess the value added tax burden on rail transport. It also provides for a review of the principles and basis of calculation for determining the charge for rail transport. The question of time is left to say something about. The first option there is to get into this is to be around the state budget for the autumn. I imagine with the long story this case has, that it will probably be a very short period of time. But what I can promise is that the work is going on.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e2027	Many today have had a level playing field in the debate. I would like to say that I hope that the same number of people are engaged in a level playing field when we are dealing with the National Transport Plan next year. That is when we have to assess the competitive situation between all four of our main transport systems. There has also been a big discussion about NSB Gods both here in the hall today and not least in the media. There are several parties that aim to get more goods on the track. Then you can ask yourself the question: What political action are we going to be able to do? One of them, of course, is linked to the infrastructure. Cross-border operations and crossing tracks will have a major impact on freight transport. What we also know is that rational terminals are essential. Now two terminals are planned – one in Trondheim and one in Ganddal in Rogaland. Both terminals are of great importance for the sections, in Trondheim not least in relation to the Nordlandsbahn. The work to get a plan clearance now seems not to have stopped directly, so at least to be significantly delayed. I would like to ask the Council of State: what will the Council of State do to keep up the progress in the planning of these two important projects for the NSB Goods, so that we can get a clarification until we deal with the National Transport Plan? So in the end, in relation to charges: it is clear that it is essential for NSB goods. The situation is that it is now – this year and next year – NSB Goods will order the new wagon material. It is therefore urgent to clarify the investment charge. I also hope that the Government will be able to return to the road tax as soon as possible, and I would remind the Council of State that we have a revised national budget in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e2038	I am very pleased with the positive tone that has been in the debate today, and the willingness to find practical solutions to the challenges we face in the transport sector and on the roads in Norway. I am aware that the tax clearance is now urgent. What I can promise is that the department will not be involved in postponing or delaying anything unnecessary. But I have to remind you that this is a matter that has rolled and gone over many years. We're willing to grab it to clear it up as soon as possible. With regard to the level of charges and infrastructure, I agree with what Red Road was presented here. I will promise with regard to the plan work and possibly stop. in Trondheim, to go into the matter more closely to find out where it stands, and what in that case is the reason why it has stopped, and what can be done to move on. It is likely that this Council of State will also need to clarify both in relation to the Storting and in relation to the Transport Committee in Stortinget in terms of the National Transport Plan and a number of projects that are now under way and are to be phased in. The phase-in time period, the location of the different packages is also in line with the national transport plan and the willingness to deal with and progress with them. One of them is already in Stortinget now. There are at least two more in preparation, and the willingness to see this in conjunction with the Transport Plan or to deal with them individually, it is necessary to clarify within a reasonable time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e2050	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of 3 minutes. Oddvard Nilsen gave up the word. [[H]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e2057	Let me first say that I think the debate today has drawn up a lot of interesting issues for the NSB and I have to say a lot of interesting considerations and good visions to take along. I am of the opinion that some of the most important of what the majority say in the vote is what is said about a total review of the charging situation for rail traffic, both freight and passenger traffic, in relation to other types of transport. Several speakers have requested, not least my near-named brother Myrvoll, when the Council of State may see that this can be presented. I don't feel very calm compared to the last post that the Council of State had. It should be unnecessary to spend a very long time going through these issues. This is too much known substance. Many research environments have produced lots of materials that you can go into to look at the charging relationship between the different modes of transport. It's urgent to do that. That is why I would like to stress once again what I said in my post, that this must be done by the department as soon as possible and come back to the Stortinget with a briefing on. The reason why this is so urgent is, among other things, a lot of material is now to be purchased. In addition, the Ministry of Finance has applied to the Ministry of Finance for exemption from VAT on its heelogens, precisely on the grounds that there is competition with the aircraft on these routes. If one takes Kristiansand as an example, the airlines can now deploy new aircraft and increase capacity there without paying VAT, while the NSB BA has to pay VAT on the trains that are now scheduled to be deployed on the South. I stress once again: it is urgent to come back to Stortinget with a broad account of this work. I would also like to say to the Council of State that it must be possible to present the cases and to assess the issues that the Committee is calling for, without necessarily having to solve all the problems involved in the budgetary procedure for the next year. Not all proposals need to be incorporated into the budget for next year. The most important thing in the first instance is to have a proper case presented, a proper assessment and a proper review of these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e2070	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see next page]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e2078	Then we should be ready for voting. We start with voting in case no. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e2084	During the debate, Mr Nistad presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up proposals for the competitive outsourcing of the national road haulage networks.’ Alternatively, the vote shall be taken between the vote and the proposal of the Party of Advancement and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e2108	During the debate, Mr Stensaker put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The entry Norge BA is converted into a limited liability company from 1 January 2000.’» We vote first on the proposal and then on the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-21.ana.ud2680e2138	During the debate, Mr Stensaker presented four proposals on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government requests that regulatory changes be made to allow operators other than NSB BA to operate passenger and freight transport services on railway lines.’; Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to investigate and submit to the Storting a system of overall responsibility for the coordination and purchase of all public transport services within the counties, including public transport across the counties.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: «NSB BA shall be converted into a limited liability company from 1 January 2000.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to transfer responsibility for the State Railway Authority from the Ministry of Transport to the Ministry of Labour and Administration.’ The suggestions are first voted on and then over the setting.
