ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e48	The requested alternate of the State of Oppland, Kjell Ivar Fossnes, is requested to be exempted from meeting under the leave of the representative Reidun Gravdahl from 13 April to 15 April, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. Other alternates of the State of Oppland, Gry Larsen, are convened to meet during the period of leave.3. Gry Larsen is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Reidun Gravdahl.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e72	: Gry Larsen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e84	We are near the beginning of a new century. The international development of technology and economics will be even greater than in this century, affecting businesses and therefore our daily lives as well. The world will be globalized. This means that our home world, local and national, is characterized by the outside world, both socially, politically and culturally. Both in the short term and in the long term, this will be our country's main challenge. When I start out like this, it's because in the middle of everyday life and day politics, it's easy to slip into an illusion that the world doesn't change, and this is a dangerous sense deception. Over the last two decades, a new global economic system has emerged. The new system has, among other things: its starting point in the technological revolution, and in many ways we are witnessing a radical shift in the material basis of production, communication and trade. In parallel and mutual development, a system shift has taken place in microelectronics, in computer technology, in hardware and software and in telecommunications. This is changing the way we work, the way we produce and the way we consume. It changes our power, and it also changes our power. The rapid globalisation and developments in the information technology sector radically change competition and thus also the requirements of the individual enterprise, small or large. As a consequence, the training and competence of both the individual employee and the enterprise will be crucial for how the enterprise is to cope. Both research, development and competence for individuals will determine how an enterprise that will live in an international environment will be able to develop further, and its efforts in these areas will be quite decisive. With regard to our level of education, we have shown that we are doing well internationally, but lately there are many companies that have both set up their research departments outside and are calling for research efforts nationally. But there are trends in flagging to ensure competence. In this new globalised economy, new demands are made on both the state and the politicians about how to further develop the profitable businesses for a period when there are no more borders, and the companies move out where they find it too well. I think the state will have to single out some areas where it makes a special effort. It will be about education, technology and research. I refer here also to the decision taken in connection with the budget, where the Right and Workers' Party decided that a research fund should be set up. I expect the Council of State will comment on this today. The Labour Party has for a long time also stressed that in this phase we are in, both colleges and universities must have a much closer cooperation with the business community. A number of measures have been developed here. In recent years, Sweden has changed some of the governance of universities and higher education institutions by establishing an external majority of boards. A large part of those who are in the government also have their background from business. I'd like to ask the Council of State to comment on this as well. We see that a number of our companies acquire research and development skills from outside by establishing their own departments abroad. It may be positive, but it may also be very damaging if we get a development that leads to less nutrient research in Norway. This could lead to the depletion of the overall industrial environment in our own country over time. In this context, we can, for example: see that in areas where we are strong, it should be possible to also make a stronger effort at home, not least in the case of oil and gas. We now have the discussion that is going on in relation to Telenor and Telia. I also expect the Council of State to comment that it is important for the Norwegian Government that the Telenor Development and Research Department remains in Norway. One thing is that some departments move out, but it's important that the entire research community stays behind and doesn't follow the head office. A prerequisite for companies to want to invest their research and development activities in Norway is that we have universities that train top competent candidates and researchers in professional fields of interest to the business community. Our universities have grown in size in recent years, but growth alone is not enough. It is necessary for universities to work much more systematically on the quality side in both education and research, so that they reach an even higher international level. A budget increase should be linked to an obligation to improve quality. Academic strengthening of universities is equally inadequate. They must interact with business to a much greater extent than today. Here, there's a difference between our four universities, and there's also a variation between the subjects. But if we compare them with universities abroad, the Norwegian universities are very introverted about business. There are several universities that now agree that closer interaction with business is desirable for many reasons. But universities are moving slowly in terms of this development. If we're going to speed up, as I mentioned at the outset, there's a need to look at the very governance and culture of our universities and colleges. Highly trained personnel are a prerequisite for the business community to conduct research and development from Norway, and in addition to the qualitative side of the candidates, we also need to have enough staff with research training. Robust professional environments, not single researchers, will be essential if we are to be able to attract foreign jobs as well. They don't grow out of themselves. Of course, this may happen, but in a country like Norway it will be very slow if the country does not participate actively as a contributor and a catalyst. Education and public research environments need to be built up in close interaction with industry and research institutes, and long-term efforts need to be made. We can only do that in a few areas. Therefore, I hope the Government can identify some key areas where you can have such a high ambition, where we can get a dense and compact professional environment. I think the marine and maritime sectors are such an area. In countries with which we can compare, we see that tax arrangements and business relaxations are now being discussed in order to increase their efforts. I believe that the Government should also assess it, because there is a debate on this. That doesn't mean that I'll simply join in that tax incentives for business will be the way to go. It might as well be that one concludes that a direct grant from the authorities will be the right one. But it's right to go into that discussion at the time of the submission of the research report, in order to know if we should possibly continue our own direct grant scheme. A number of actions will be necessary to bring our research communities up to the same level as other countries, and to ensure that our companies will operate their activities, including their research activities, from Norway. Through increased economic efforts, through professional strength, by taking tougher priorities, by increasing the interaction between research and business, and through an external majority of the boards of our universities and colleges and long-term public efforts, I believe that our enterprises and foreign companies are finding that they can equally operate from Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e114	The representative Grete Knudsen points to an important issue that the government is busy with. The entry for the representative Knudsen was wide and went into very many important areas. Based on the interpellation text, it might not be easy to see how the interpellant would deepen its interpellation. I'm going to go through a part of what the Government is busy with the interpellation, but I'm also going to look at the debate that comes with the interpellation, as an important input for the Government that is currently finalizing the research message. She will, as the Storting has previously been known, be presented in May, and it is quite clear that a round here now on such an important theme will give us an important signal to include in the finalization of that work. The globalisation of the world economy is also being pursued by industry’s R & D activities. Major enterprises are increasingly developing into multi-national enterprises. Other companies are assessing whether to buy the expertise they need in countries other than Norway. Large Norwegian enterprises use on average one fifth of their R & D resources outside Norway. In many countries, there is now a debate on what will follow these developments for national research and for national economic development. Norway is likely to have many research-intensive enterprises in Norwegian soils. If we are able to develop strong business environments in Norway based on good know-how and up-to-date technology, they will attract investors and businesses that need this knowledge. These clusters will also be attractive for enterprises that want to deliver goods and services to these businesses. Such developments will increase employment and strengthen local communities. However, if one cannot develop a strong culture of knowledge and innovation in a particular industry, the companies will place both their R & D units and their research assignments in other countries. Such a development will, in the long term, undermine innovation opportunities for this industry, and, of course, also weaken the Norwegian research environment. Nevertheless, in some cases it is a good thing that the Norwegian business people buy research and development abroad. In an international economy, it is important that entrepreneurs get the latest knowledge and the best technology, and perhaps it is just a foreign research environment that has the knowledge they need. Enterprises can order research assignments from research environments in other countries; they can allow their own researchers to study or work in a foreign R & D environment; they can bring foreign researchers to Norway. This will enable companies to make good contacts in business and knowledge systems in other countries, which the Norwegian industry and the Norwegian knowledge system will focus on. I am not afraid that foreign researchers will compete with Norwegian researchers in Norway. On the contrary, I believe that the Norwegian companies and the Norwegian research communities will have enjoyed contact with the foreign environment and the competences these researchers can bring with them. But we must continue the strong commitment to research and right-wing education in Norway. If we are looking for Norwegian university and university graduates with a good and relevant education, we are also strengthening the ability of companies to acquire knowledge from the Norwegian and foreign R & D environment. Another requirement is that we meet the need for doctoral candidates for the research system and the business community. The number of completed Norwegian doctoral degrees has increased sharply in recent years. In 1998, 685 doctorates were completed in Norway, 60 more than in the previous year. About half of the doctorates are in science and technology. There are more scholarships that complete the doctoral degree now than before, and they spend less time on finishing. The research message will discuss the future need for doctoral candidates. The University and Higher School Selection - the Mjøs selection - will look at the degree structure and study development. I think we should consider possible changes with a view to adapting to the degree structure in other countries, as in other countries. can improve the effectiveness of education up to the doctoral level. Recently, we have witnessed some mergers between Norwegian and foreign companies. The new company may reduce the total number of researchers in connection with such a merger. Nevertheless, the Norwegian knowledge and business communities can focus on such a merger, and the new group will be able to give the Norwegian knowledge system new knowledge and new contacts. But put it down or move out the Norwegian R & D department, Norway will lose on the merger. There is nothing wrong with Norwegian companies turning to the rest of the world. But we're facing a big problem if they move out or buy most of their knowledge in other countries. Such a development would undermine the Norwegian research environment, which would also contribute to weakening the Norwegian industry. Foreign research can simply never replace Norwegian. The Norwegian companies need knowledge to adapt Norwegian industrial, geographical and cultural conditions. In addition, industry takes a lot of its expertise from these environments, and its use of Norwegian research is also important for the knowledge-building of universities and universities. This is particularly true of the technological and economic disciplines. It is therefore important that we pursue a policy that makes it attractive for Norwegian and foreign companies to buy R & D in Norway and that gives them reason to have R & D business in Norway. We'll do our best to make sure that Norway has a strong and diverse system of knowledge. And with a knowledge system, I mean the network of companies, research institutions and others who develop, disseminate and use new knowledge. A good knowledge system relies on knowledge-intensive and creative businesses and institutions that know where to go to find new knowledge, who know how to use it and who are able to think new. This applies to both enterprises and research institutions. Enterprises naturally look after research and development of high quality. We must pursue a policy that stimulates such research, for example. by providing additional permissions to different top-level research environments. In addition, there must be a good exchange of knowledge, ideas and personnel between the different actors and the institutions of the system. We need to bet on actions that are involved in developing the networks in the research system. Strengthening the long-term fundamental research at universities, universities and research institutes is a central task for the government. Researchers at these institutions are involved in developing new ideas and processes that can be used in business. Equally important is that they are a knowledge base that companies can leverage throughout the innovation process. It's where they pick up their additions, and it's to these institutions they have to go when they're faced with problems they're not able to solve on their own. I have noticed that one in many countries is creating the new polytechnic R & D institute, among others. to ensure that industry invests in its own R & D environment. In Norway, we already have a large institute sector that helps large and small enterprises with research and competence. We have to make sure that these institutes provide research of such high quality that companies actively use them in their innovation business. I would like to work to increase the opportunities of research institutions over time for high-quality research, partly through the fundamentals and partly through the strategic research programmes of the Research Council. The research environment also serves as an important source of new knowledge from other countries. The government therefore places great emphasis on international R & D cooperation and goes, among other things. for active participation in the EU’s fifth research framework programme. I would also like to mention the work of the European user-driven technological and industrial cooperation network, EUREKA, where the companies themselves are taking the initiative in cooperation. Research cooperation does not only lead to Norwegian industry and society having access to the latest in international research and development. This also means that the companies and research communities involved in the cooperation must extend to reach international standards of quality and relevance. It also helps to strengthen cooperation between different Norwegian companies and between the companies and the research community. All of this will make them stronger in international competition. Experience shows that the Norwegian enterprises and the Norwegian research community claim well in international cooperation. Many of the industry's innovations depend on an effective interaction between enterprises and between enterprises and universities, higher education institutions and research institutes. The government will therefore further develop the tools to stimulate technology and research dissemination, R & D cooperation and increase the use of research and development. This applies, inter alia, to: user-driven research programmes under the Norwegian Research Council, other research council and SND programmes, institutions such as research parks and business gardens, and measures to contribute to a more efficient commercialisation of research results from universities and universities. Overall, Norwegian industry invests less in research and development than in the business world in the countries we like to compare with. The government has asked the government to issue and submit proposals for financial incentives to promote R & D work in enterprises. In a short time, the Government will set up an own rapid selection to assess measures to stimulate private financing of R & D. The selection shall assess different direct instruments, where R & D in the business community triggers some form of public support and indirect actions, such as: tax relief. The theme will also be handled in the upcoming research progress message.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e160	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is very positive that the Council of State signals a much greater effort in this area, and I am also very much in agreement with the guidelines used by the Council of State for the preparation of the Single European Act. It's true that our businesses are spending less on research than the enterprises in other countries that we can compare with are doing. But we really can't compare ourselves, because we have an industrial structure that is so completely different, and because we have so few big businesses. The large companies competing internationally have not reduced their research efforts, but their increased research efforts have come beyond the borders of the country. There has been a necessity to gain research competence. I agree that in many ways it is important, and that is good. But it is not good if there is less research in Norway and Norway. That's where the authorities and we politicians come in on how to make sure that there's an increase at home, even though many of the companies also have to find their research skills out. For example: the merger of Hafslund Nycomed and Amersham was examined whether this merger would itself lead to major research efforts in Norway. The answer to that was no, because the merged company concluded that the trade union environment in Norway was so small in this area, while the competence was found in England, the United States and Japan. So our professional environment wasn't good enough. But in some areas we are good, and it is precisely in these areas that we now have to make sure that we can create robust clusters of professional environments that allow even if you are merging or being abroad, you can equally fully strengthen your efforts at home. In this context, I would like to ask for a comment also on the Telenor Research and Development Department. It is simply a problem for the Norwegian community to stand in the middle of, and there can be great consequences if it is flagged out.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e173	I will comment on some of the challenges that the representative Knudsen is also addressing in both his first and now last follow-up post. The one thing was the question of funds. We will come back to that and talk about it both in the research notice and in the revised national budget, and it is clear that we will follow up what the Storting has said there. When it comes to external plurality, I would like to remind you of the laws that were passed three years ago. That was the first time we got external members of the university board. The marbles had to a great extent had it before. Experience so far indicates that it is a successful reform. Measles selection is in the middle of their work, and I expect them to treat the governance structure in a good way. But I've told you before that I want to present a test paragraph in the university and university spheres; it's also followed the Storting by asking me to do it. Of course, it'll be possible to try out this trial paragraph for the institutions that can think of it, while we're waiting for the Mjøs selection, so we can combine these two things. When it comes to the key areas, I totally agree with the representative Grete Knudsen. We've received recordings primarily from the Research Council, but also from other environments working on the research message, which we will largely follow up on the key initiative. I think we need extra bets, but we also need sharper priorities. It is important that we become even better where we are good, and thus in the leading line internationally. We're going to try to make it visible and follow up on the recordings that came up with this. When it comes to the Telia-Telenor merger, it is clear that there is an important matter the Knudsen representative is taking up. We are well ahead when it comes to ICT in business development, because we had a strong research department earlier in Telework. However, it is not right for me to comment on the work currently being done and under the responsibility of another State Council, but I will confirm to the representative Knudsen that in the research message we will show in a thorough manner how to take care of that kind of competence in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e188	Research, development and research-trained labour are an incredibly important part of this society's progress in the years that we can at least appreciate. I understand that this is a worrying field. If we look at the reforms we have had recently, reform 97, reform 94, higher education reforms and university development, then it is worrying. What we need now is an increased amount of knowledge added to the individual child and quality assurance assessed continuously. We don't have time to lose one, two or three year olds with children if we're going to have the industry development, research and research-trained labour required here. Thus, by increasing the overall level of knowledge of the individual, we will have a greater share that can be trained as soles in a future society. Norway is a small country, and it cannot possibly be best in all fields. It is worrying, however, if the research fields are essentially to focus on the marine and maritime sectors. The country consists of many different fields of work than those carried out along the coast. As far as the representative, Knudsen, said that no matter what happened in the relationship between Telenor and Telia and where the interesting fields of work had to be placed, we had to keep R & D at Telenor in Norway, in relation to what was said about the introversion of universities, perhaps a little contradictory. For R & D, it is necessary to work in close cooperation with industry, and if that part of business is moved, for example. to Sweden and we are going to run R & D in Norway, and this close interaction with universities will be lacking. We come in the situation that we actually only have left to develop the marine and maritime sectors. The Progress Party has promoted a wide range of proposals that can resolve structures, which can provide much greater efficiency, higher quality and faster implementation, but we have not seen that it has been possible to achieve anything other than our 15-16 votes in favour of this by voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e199	It is a key challenge for Norwegian research and business that the representative Grete Knudsen addresses, and it deserves the attention that a person receives through such a debate. We are also given the opportunity to come back to this in connection with the announced research report. It is also a topical debate, because structural changes in business, for example. in the telecommunications sector, shows that it will not matter where – in order to be concrete – mobile telephone and Internet devices should be located, because such devices have much to say about the proximity to development work in these areas. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to focus on quality in research, but this alone will not prevent flagging out. It must also be interesting for business to be active in Norway. In this way, we are moving towards the general framework of business in our country. In this debate, let me point to three aspects that the Christian People's Party believes are important in a strategy to make it interesting for business to have a R & D activity in Norway. Firstly, it is necessary that we have good basic research. We need to have good quality through a qualified education system with good equipment. We also need a debate in the research community that not everything is research, and that there is a difference between research and development. It will clarify the nature and function of basic research and focus on quality and innovation. Secondly, research recruitment must take account of the good talents, while also taking into account the needs of industry. The good talents must be nurtured and stimulated. It's positive that we now have an increase in the number of doctoral students. However, these doctoral programmes also need to focus on international contacts and research experience and to facilitate exchange programmes to provide researchers with international experience and horizons. It's there today, but I think we have more to pick up here too. But it's as important as doctoral programmes to make young people choose a research career. A special challenge here is actually to get young people to study real science, as the importance of real science is great for business. Finally, the business environment for R & D needs a review, and I am pleased that the Council of State is launching this fast-working selection of good proposals and actions. The Christian People's Party believes that incentives are needed to trigger increased private funding for R & D, and it would be right to consider different types of development contracts and tax measures. If it is economically interesting, while having good access to high-quality researchers, Norway has the best prerequisites for maintaining and increasing nutrient R & D.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e218	It's hardly any historical news that the world is changing. It's an illusion to think that it doesn't. But I agree with the interpellant that the pace of change, both commercial, economic and technological, is higher today than we have hardly ever seen before. And this is combined with a system of free international capital movements, which means that markets are also more demanding for national politicians. Real good examples of successful investment can be found just where excellent research and development, from the basic environment to the more development-oriented part of R & D, can be successfully linked with commercial investment. This recipe for good coupling is really the answer to everything. Therefore, this is more than a question of research policy. It is a comprehensive policy, which must also facilitate a rate of change and a direction of change in business, which is such that it promotes the use of knowledge. It sounds nice to say that when you look at the positive side, but it also means that you sometimes have to accept closures, changes and deflagration as part of the same thing. I agree with the Council of State that flagging itself is not necessarily wrong. But that's what's left, that's the problem, and that has to be more of it. Therefore, for the Right, it has always been an important public task to invest in education, technology and research. We should now ask ourselves the question of whether the old solutions last longer, in a situation where all countries compete much more strongly than before to attract good researchers, good minds to businesses and good businesses, and they compete with all conceivable means. To date, this competition has remained largely outside Norway. There are several governments, so this is a contribution to both criticism and self-criticism. But that time is over when you can look back, you have to look forward, look at what's the reason this has happened, and look at how we can now meet development fairly quickly. Other countries have given conscious incentives to start-ups. We haven't done it. It's time to look at it as well. Other countries have provided special incentives for research training and research establishment, both fiscally, economically and in other ways. We also need to consider such measures. And so completely banal, but simple: it's actually been like this in Norway that we've had a long shortage of labour. This is one of the reasons why some companies have chosen to outsource their R & D departments. I am pleased that the Government has now finally reduced a rapid-working sample. Last year's draft budgetary procedure presupposes the examination of tax incentives and their presentation in the budget for 2000. The selection should then be fairly fast-working!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e229	It must be an objective to have a large number of good research environments within national scope and a national culture of knowledge and reorientation in different disciplines and disciplines. It may be best protected against Norwegian businesses applying unilaterally to the rest of the world in order to meet their need for research and competence development. However, although it should be the general rule, I still have a positive view of enterprises that are well placed to order assignments in other countries, as stated by the Council of State, or leave their own to study or work in a foreign R & D environment or bring foreign researchers to Norway. I believe Norwegian enterprises and the research community can enjoy contacts with industry and the R & D environment in other countries, but it cannot replace the Norwegian challenge and research environment. Norwegian industry needs knowledge to adapt to Norwegian industrial policy, Norwegian regional, structural and cultural policies. Furthermore, Norwegian businesses are small, characterised by active, imaginative owners, who have had the ability to bet, try and fail. These should be subject to conditions for further development, and the provision of R & D programmes is one of several measures that the public can provide to enable these companies to compete more competitively. The large companies have resources to build up their own R & D environment that will enable them to find out what new knowledge is and how it can be translated into new production. But small businesses, which represent the weight of the workplaces and are often located in District Norway, do not have any resources at their disposal. These must have access to a knowledge environment regionally. Many of these companies operate in a combination of high risk and low profitability. The bend is early to make the smaller businesses aware of the possibilities for the need for further development. If not, there may be a risk of liquidation and purchase, as is often the case in an international global economy. One way to counteract this is to further develop regional research institutes. These have a unique advantage by being located up to the right-hand challenge environment, which provides an important dissemination of knowledge. In addition, they are in the first line towards local business. They know the culture and the way they think locally, are geographically close to businesses and have multiple professional competences. In addition, they may be linked to a heavier and central knowledge environment. State Council Lilletun and the Government's prioritisation of this knowledge environment through increased basic commitments in the 1999 budget was a correct and important step. In this way, one can specifically counteract the fears of the representative Grete Knudsen. In addition, the Regional Institutes should be involved in the strategic institute programmes. This can improve your ability to do a job for business that holds goals, and prevent businesses from going unilaterally to other countries to meet their knowledge needs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e242	I've been a little uncertain in which direction the interpellant wants to go, and I'm also a little uncertain as to whether the issues raised here are clear. But what is clear, at least, is that we spend a smaller part of our total GDP on research than many other countries. It is mainly not due to the state or the public, it has been the private enterprises that have spent less money on research than in many comparable countries. That's why the Stortinget has now decided that the OECD average for research should be an important step, and I expect that the Council of State will follow up. In particular, there will be a clear call for business to contribute to a greater extent than they have until now. Research is – as has been said many times – the main competitive advantage of industry. Research is, by its very nature, international, and that means that a one-sided focus on national research is not particularly correct. It is important that every country and nation have an up-to-date research environment, but research is, by its very nature, international. That's the way it has to be, and we also want to stimulate it. If we're going to participate, our research again has to have an up-to-date international environment. A historical reason Norway has the research environment we have is our unilateral dependence on raw materials. This means that we have become very good at energy research and some nearby research areas, such as oil, gas and everything that goes on hydropower, and that many other important sectors in this way have not been prioritised. It's been negative. We now see this in particular in telematics and telephony. It is essential that the State use its influence to ensure that the research and development department of the newly merged Telenor-Telia is added to Norway. It is quite amazing to think that our Swedish and Finnish friends have managed to bring up a research environment in telephony and telematics that is far more extensive than what we have in Norway. This merger must be used as a break-up bar to create a similar environment in Norway. Let me warn you about three issues which have been raised in the debate, and which some people may think are an easy way to improve the research environment, but which, in my view, is completely wrong. Some have suggested that enterprises should have a majority of the university board. It will lead to a commercialisation and a supremacy of universities and colleges, and it is a step in the wrong direction. It doesn't mean that it's not important to have external representatives on the board of universities and colleges, but it's something completely different. Let me also warn against significant changes in the framework conditions for business, i.e. tax harmonisation downwards. That's not wise. It is clear that if you want to do like Ireland, to do tax dumping in order to establish businesses, it may be wise in the short term, but in the longer term, the big community will lose on that type of tax harmonisation downwards. Let me also warn against a turn against increasingly applied research as the only gratifying. All research depends on an up-to-date basic research and is carried out at universities and colleges. This means that the State research effort in the institute sector is crucial and important for business. That's my last warning. I was going to say something more, President, but I don't have time for that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e259	That's absolutely right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e263	In this interview, the representative Grete Knudsen addresses a key challenge in future Research Norway. Because if we are to achieve the objective of getting up at OECD level in terms of research efforts, business must also contribute, not only with resources, but also with incentives for knowledge development. The needs of industry are often positive drivers of research and development of skills, as we have seen in this respect, for example. petroleum technology. In this field, Norwegian research communities and enterprises have developed unique competences in the world. It is therefore very unfortunate if the Norwegian companies are now completely flagging out their demand for knowledge. At the same time, I would like to stress that the interaction between international research environments is of great importance, both for Norwegian industry and for Norwegian researchers. Knowledge development takes place in a network where the best researchers in their field share experiences and results. In a globalised knowledge economy, the challenge is to facilitate the development of skills and good conditions for knowledge-intensive enterprises, not to build a protection wall around our traditional industry. This is precisely what the Government places the emphasis on in its industrial policy. I quote the Minister of Industry who said in Stortinget on Friday 26 March: ‘We work on an ongoing basis to ensure that Norway appears to be an attractive country to invest in for both Norwegian and foreign investors. In the near future, we will set up a Commission to discuss long-term employment strategies based on high value creation in Norway. We have just started work on comparing tax rules in the Nordic region." These measures are important to provide a good framework for business, and together with an active education and research policy, this can form the basis for future Norwegian business. In order for Norway and Norway to be able to compete in an international economy, substantial long-term investment in research in areas where Norway is already taking advantage and is able to assert itself internationally. This is important for creating new jobs, but also for securing Norway as a knowledge nation. The initiative must take place in an interaction between long-term basic research and more directly applied research. And it is important – as the Council of State emphasises – that we stimulate the best environments by providing additional funding for top research. Strong competition to participate in international research programmes will also stimulate the quality of research, both in enterprises and in public institutions. Participation in the EU Fifth Framework Programme is important in this way. For the Left, it is important to ensure that public universities, colleges and research institutions become leading knowledge institutions in the future. If this is to happen, institutions need greater freedom, but they also need to be better equipped to disseminate their knowledge and to commercialise their knowledge. This implies the establishment of efficient networks for business, where research and training institutions are drivers of R & D work and in the commercialisation of new knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e279	When half of the young take higher education and more and more take a doctorate, it means a great change for Norwegian working life and thus for the entire Norwegian community. The representative Grete Knudsen pointed to the challenge of moving out of Norway. When we were on a committee trip in Ireland, we met Norwegian young people who worked there in the telecommunications and data sectors, not just because they made a lot of money on it, but because it was a professionally exciting environment there. Of course, for young people in the knowledge industry, pay means a part to a certain level, but after that it is the most important thing to be in a professionally exciting and up-to-date environment. If you're going to hang out, you're going to have a job where you're getting better. I agree with the Council of State that it is good for Norwegian youth to volunteer, but this is a challenge that we have to face by investing in those areas where we are good, so that we can create precisely professionally exciting environments in Norway. And when we're going to design research policy, we also have to have at the back of our minds the consequences that knowledge centres can have for the move pattern in Norway. In the migration flow we have seen from North Norway in recent years, where 6,000 people move south – as much as a city like Fauske – young people with higher education are strongly overrepresented. And at the same time, when we are faced with the treatment of research messages, we know that the Nordic share of what we spend on research is very small. The Nordic share is small, but much of the research in which Norway is well advanced is equally full, especially in North Norway. This is space research, where North Norway and Svalbard have particularly good natural advantages and assumptions, in terms of marine research, where we already have more business start-ups as a result of Norwegian research in North Norway, and not least telemedicine, where the environment in Tromsø is referred to as perhaps the world's leading environment in this area. And telemedicine in Tromsø is also developing concrete efforts on the development of this environment, a commitment that can make the Telemedical Centre in Tromsø perhaps the most important thing that has happened on the knowledge front in North Norway since the establishment of the university. I hope the Council of State can take this into account in the work on the research report.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e290	I don't think many people today have the full overview of what's going on at our universities. I'm just going to come up with some personal reflections after hearing in particular the interpellant and the Council of State. It was about that we have an ever-increasing number of doctoral degrees. My impression is that doctoral degrees are increasingly required, both in scope and depth, and that they are less than previously self-employed work of personal ingenuity, which is due to the fact that they are more and more the result of guidance and seminars. Another factor is that those who are most suitable for such work will not become researchers or teachers — researchers at universities or teachers in high school. This is related to poor pay and low social status. I know an internationally renowned professor who today has the same salary as his son, who is a newly educated civil economist. Another factor is that we've got popular universities in the sense that most of the population is going into our universities or colleges, which then means that they're going to be responsible for both elementary education and research. A substantial part of the teaching, especially in primary and secondary education, can be carried out by teachers who have a main task behind them, i.e. have the teaching skills in secondary school. The difference is that they have much less education and work much less, largely, than those who work in high school. Too many resources are used in this area compared to research. In some areas, there is a significant mismatch between the needs of students, business and administration and the curriculum. The syllabus is far too much influenced by the special current interests of researchers in many cases. I've seen an agonizing example of French basics, where they had a very thick book in phonetics full of remarkable concepts and definitions. When you consider how difficult French is, to me, it's completely incomprehensible that you pay so much attention to exactly phonetics. It is a striking example that here there must be some university teacher in the environment who is very busy with phonetics and has an unreasonable influence.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e305	Let me note that the last article made could well have heard more naturally at home in one of the seminars mentioned by the speaker than in this interpellation debate. It would be desirable, in the case of interpellations like this, that the regulations allow an interpellation to be addressed to more than one Council of State. It seems clear to me that the issue raised by the inter-pellant is just as addressed to the responsibility of the Minister for Economic Affairs and to the Minister for Finance as to the responsibility of the Minister for Research. Personally, I would have drawn the opposite conclusion of interpellantence, and emphasised the framework conditions for the business and culture of Norwegian business far stronger than the question of the internal culture of universities. It must be seen in the eyes that the primary task of universities is not to solve industrial development problems. It is desirable that we have universities that are so good and so strong in fundamental research that they also create conditions for innovation in business. But that's not the primary problem. And I think it's a short cut to think that you're meeting the challenges we're facing in Norwegian business and working life by creating an external majority of universities' governments. There's no answer at all, and it won't solve any of the problems we have to solve. On the other hand, it is clear that in Norway we have worse conditions in stimulating business leaders to use their profits to invest in research and development than most competing countries have. It's possible to do something about it, and it's clearly more socio-economic for the Norwegian community that business leaders use their profits that way than the state can at any time collect tax revenues, so that that money goes straight into the treasury. Let me also say that I have little faith that innovation, which is a keyword, is programable. And I have even less faith that it is a natural task for government and big business to point out the areas that facilitate innovation. Historically, all experience shows that innovation has the peculiarity of being surprising — it is not programmable through research policy decisions. The most important innovation measures in Norway, for example: a company like Norsk Hydro is not the result of politicians' decision to now bet on this. It was simply the result of a failed basic research experiment in Karl Johan's Gate, in the Old Party Hall. That's why I think you should keep the problems apart. The primary task of universities is basic research and competence. The task of business is to find the areas in which it is important to invest bold capital.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e316	Only as a small comment to Inge Wohnning's heart's sigh of participation by state councils in interpellations, will the President quote what is in Storting's Rules of Procedure § 50: ‘If the interpellation is answered, the member of the Government responding to the interpellation shall have a speaking time of up to 10 minutes. The Prime Minister and other Councils of State whose departments are affected by the interpellation may also reply, with the same speaking time.» This is just an opportunity, if you wanted it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e324	The aim of the interpellation was also to discuss the whole issue of what education, research, interaction between research environments and enterprises have to do to enable companies to develop both in Norway and at the same time to interact with international environments. Here we will not pass up the need for increased research efforts, as the Council of State stated that it will facilitate through the research communication, which is already coming in May, and also in the next year's government budget. I also think it is positive that the Council of State facilitates various trials at universities and colleges, as there is so far good experience with external representation in governments. We have also seen this in Sweden, where they have gone even further, and by doing so, the interaction between different actors in the impact field of universities has been expanded. I think it is right that the Council of State also states that we need to look at the areas of priority. We're such a small country that we can't just walk all over everything to get the top environments. It might be even tougher in countries other than what we've been up to now, and I understand that the Council of State will come up with this in the Research Communication. I also agree with Holte that the regional research institutions have an important job to do, but then they have to connect to the colleges they are close to, even more so than the case is today. Per-Kristian Foss was, like several others, aware that the pace of change also makes very many traditional industrial companies have problems. We know that those who do the best conversion are companies of competence. This means that we need to enable small and medium-sized enterprises to cope with change and to become more competent. And the government has to add up to a different development both in terms of development contracts and SND's programs, than what the government has now done. Finally, I am pleased that the Government will come back with a detailed overview of how the research funds are supposed to be organised.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e339	The kind of interpellant debates we are currently having is new in this expansion period. This has led to rapid interpellations, and I therefore found that a few current debates are interesting. I agree with the wages that sometimes it might be interesting if a person had had a slightly wider participation from the Government's side. I have to ask for cause, but I don't think it's so under the regulations that you can ask for it from the interpellant's side, it's possible one can. And I totally agree that this clearly applies to several councils of state. What I think is interesting about such debates that we have today is that one does not stick to those degrees to a proposition, a message or an setting, but that one actually searches a little bit. I thought it was interesting when the Storting in debates were looking, looking for solutions. I would like to refer to the representative of Wohnning who said that innovation cannot be programmed. It's clear that he's basically right that we politicians can't do it. But at the same time, it is clear that the overall research environment is some that we need an increased focus on quality, and that within the budget, which, without consideration if we can increase it, will be thrones, it is necessary to eat. This does not mean that basic research at universities should not be free, as it is today. But at the same time, it's obvious that when it comes to strategic thinking about what's going to go through research councils, institutes and beyond, it's obvious some area where we have lead moons, where we're in the research front, and it's important to hold on. We need obvious warnings from time to time that we can't in a way create research and innovation. But it is important to put this on the agenda, and I also believe it is important to eat. I also think it is important that we take seriously what Mr Konglevoll said about North Norway. I believe that one of Norway's major demonstrators in the future on the international research page is polar research, which is largely linked to North Norway and Svalbard, as an infrastructure for research. I myself have discussed this both with the Chinese Foreign Minister and the American, and there is clearly a great international interest in our further development of Svalbard. That's why I think there's a lot of potential here. I take with me all the articles that have come here today. I'm working on the research message and I'm going to finish it, and I'm looking forward to the debate on it in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e352	The debate on substance is closed. So 1 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e366	‘There’s an audit ghost across the school. As a result, the principals don't dare try anything new. We have to do everything we can to get the device to have our backs free. Then we simply turn gray." This says a frustrated principal of the Municipal Report on 19 March this year. He specifically mentions the form field and the many laws and regulations that apply to the school. And he keeps on: ‘But none of the forms and controls focus on creating a better school for students.’ Maybe this is the point, but the signal is so clear from a lot of people that we have to take them seriously. There is little doubt that the Norwegian school is centralised to a monthly degree. Maybe this is another example of the Norwegian slope of similarity and millimeters. – cf. the constant requirement for national standards whenever a municipality wants to do things a little differently from others. Norwegian schools have a tradition of being highly detailed – from both the state and the municipality. But when it comes to curriculums and content in the school, we have had a slightly special development – with strong pendulum swings in the postwar period. The old normal plans were very centrally established, while the first pattern plan represented a clear break with this through a strong emphasis on local choice and customisation. The syllabus was largely gone – mostly guided by diffuse guidance goals – with strong freedom for the individual teacher. The 1987 model plan, where the gross work was done by the Willoch government, represented a careful tightening of the teaching material with a view to a certain firmness. But the great pendulum swing came with Hernes and L97. Both content and method are defined, partly in detail, and at the top of the whole, the curriculum is laid down, with the legal consequences. It's no wonder that a lot of the principals and teachers know themselves tied to their hands and feet. The work done in everyday life for these people is too much to deal with laws, regulations, reporting and state and municipal detail management. All of these may have some reasonable purpose. But the sum of it all becomes a Norwegian school with principals and teachers who can't use the many positive resources they're in, who get gray and worn out, and who can't give the students as much inspiration and knowledge as they could. In addition to the many signals we get from Norwegian schools about these problems, we also have international comparisons that show that the situation is much worse in this area in Norway than in most other countries. The most comprehensive and reliable comparison is found in the OECD report Education at a Glance. With us in Norway, only 9 pst. by the decisions of the individual children's ball. The corresponding figure for Sweden is 66 pst., China 46 pst., Denmark 31 pst. and Indonesia 30 pst., to give some examples. It's especially when it comes to the organisation of teaching that Norway differs negatively. Here's the detailed control in L97, which gives the greatest possible results. Norway also makes a clear distinction in these reports when it relates to the individual school’s impact on staff policy, on the organisation of the school day and school year, and on how to use the money that the school spends. I believe that by facilitating some of this, we can get a Norwegian school that is better for both the elephant and the teacher. But there is no alternative to go back to a school where most things are diffuse and little controlled and controlled. ‘A balance sheet is important. We are to have overall principles and local governance." These wise words are not my own, but are expressed by the Council of State Lilletun as a comment on the matter of central government in Norwegian school in the Evening Post on 17 March this year. I think it is important to have clear goals and greater freedom to choose the way to these measurements than we have today. Right wants a national framework for teaching. We know that the students are different, that the teachers are different, and that the schools are different. Then the educational methods to achieve the goal must be different in order to give students an equivalent offer, no matter what school they go through. That's something we all want, and we're all obliged to be with and follow up. I have full confidence that the individual principal and teacher will be able to adapt the pedagogical methods of obtaining this drug to local conditions far better than the bulking and department is able to. In the same way, we believe in the Right that the individual school in many areas is best able to organize its own business. The old word that it knows best where the shoe presses, which he wears, also applies today, and it also applies in Norwegian school. Of course, I am aware that a lot of work is going on. Both the experimental paragraph of the training laws and, in part, the regulations of the laws that are out of hand, have some positive features that go in the direction that I want and that many people have expressed their wish for. But I still think it is important that Stortinget gives a clear signal that we want a review of the width of laws, regulations and regulations to see if we can be with and create a easier everyday life for those who work and those who are elephants in Norwegian school. Even if today we are going to discuss first and foremost what government and greatness can do to bring about the lack and creativity of Norwegian schools, we should not underestimate that it is also important for the municipalities and the individual schools to see with new eyes what they can do under the law that applies at any time. We also need to stimulate municipalities, schools and the individual teacher for innovation, but then at least we have to send clear signals from this hall and do our part of the cleaning job that is so absolutely necessary. I would therefore like to make two proposals which have been distributed. The suggestions are clear in content and direction, but they have a form that is open and inviting. These are not selection proposals, but there are attempts to get the Storting to make decisions that give clear signals both to the Government, to municipalities and to schools that there is a job that needs to be done here, and that we are willing to do our part of this job. I have noticed with interest that representatives from several parties have expressed in the media that the pendulum has moved too far towards detailed management in the Norwegian school. I therefore hope for a broad connection from Stortinget to these proposals, which I believe are absolutely necessary to achieve the many great goals that we are all a few about when it concerns developments in the Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e407	Petter Løvik has addressed the two proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e410	The representative Løvik points to a matter of great interest, for which the development of school policy as well as the realization of the principle of participation and the shortest possible distance between decision and decision have implications. When it comes to the numbers that the representative Løvik refers to, tell them about decisions at school level. I would like to add that the OECD report also tells that 55 pst. decisions in Norway are taken by local authorities and only 35 pst. by the central authority. For the countries to which the representative Løvik refers, the report shows figures that are different from those of Norway when we look at the relationship between government and municipal government. However, there is reason to take a closer look at the distribution and practices we have received in our own country. I mean it today, at least formally, is an action room where the municipalities and the schools together can find good local solutions by making local decisions. The space for action is bounded by economics, legislation and collective agreements. When it comes to the law, there has been a development that has made the situation more conservative for the municipalities. This has been done by removing the general health that the Ministry has had to prescribe for the base ball. This means that we need to have a place in the individual section of the Training Act in order to establish regulations, and where we have not introduced such a home, there are no new regulations from the Department. In addition, we assessed whether we should use the homes we have, in preparing the regulations for the training laws that have been sent out on the hearing. The draft also involves a monthly reduction in the regulatory amount, and we will consider very seriously the hearing response received in relation to the regulations. It is important that the schools look for and take advantage of the space for action provided by the new legislation. It can provide exciting instruction and experience for the individual school. In addition, it is motivating for both elephants, teachers and schoolteachers to experience that they can be with and shape their own everyday life, which I consider very positive. They cannot find sufficient room for good organisational or pedagogical solutions within the framework of the legislation, they can search for exceptions to the laws and regulations in the new training law. In Norway, we have made a choice when it comes to what level to take decisions about the base ball. A large part of the decision authority has been added to the municipality level. Since 1837, municipalities have had an important place and an important role in national governments. When it is now claimed that our schools have too little autonomy, there is reason to look at the distribution in practice. We also have a long tradition that the municipal level takes responsibility for the schooling. This is particularly important in Norway, where there are many and small schools. Municipal involvement and municipal governance are important for achieving a holistic local school development strategy. This is particularly the case in areas where coordination and shared use of resources are required. However, it is important that both the State and the central authorities of the municipalities use the right to govern with understanding at all levels so as not to narrow down the space for action. The representative, Løvik, asks what I want to do to give Norwegian schools greater autonomy. One important thing in this context is the new syllabus for the base ball. The curricula are mandatory for the training activities. The regulations of the new Training Act will solve something by giving freedom to move the teaching material within the main steps in line with the desired Training Act. In addition to this, it is necessary to find out whether the curriculum is perceived as an unnecessary coercion by having the status of regulation. If that's the case, I'll review this. I refer to St. gemeld. No 28 for 1998-99, Towards richer objectives, which are now at the disposal of the Stortinget. The Ministry here states that it is reasonable to assume that there will be some time before a person is properly informed and can see the practical effects of the new curriculum for students, for work, for cooperation with parents and communities, for student participation and for learning outcomes. The Ministry will follow developments closely, both through regular contact with municipalities and schools, through the annual state reports and through the research evaluation of Reform 97. It will include: are relevant for schools and municipalities to report back on how the work on the local and individual adaptation of the training is affected by the fact that the curriculum is compulsory documents. It would be particularly important here to assess whether the amount of mandatory rules in curricula is too large. A step in extending local freedom of action will be to initiate major trials in the municipalities, cf. St.meld. No 28. As I see it, there is a need for innovative local development work in the school. It is therefore important that the space for action within the current legislation and legislation is actively exploited. I also want local attempts to detonate these frames on the basis of the new test facility in the Training Act. In this way, local initiatives will help to achieve key objectives, including: quality, differentiation and student participation. Such tests may provide an opportunity to gain experience which may be useful to other schools at a later stage. We've just had large school forms where changes are made. For a time now I think the school will be calm to make choices and carry out trials that relate to improvement and development. In this context, I will also point to local development councils as an important venue for local education and development. In such advice, home, school, community and business can meet and exchange views on their contents and school’s future. By investing in entrepreneurship in the school, there can be greater shortages, which can also help the school and the municipality to find local action rooms. More active participation of students is also strengthened by the new training law legislating the pupil council at the intermediate stage. I also believe that cooperation between school and home is important in this context. A study has shown that about half of the parents want to participate when the school assesses their work, and that they want more knowledge about the dishes and duties they have as parents. When decisions are made about the organisation and operation of the school, the Training Act opens up alternative leases, i.e.: Teacher-controlled dorms. Otherwise, you can also choose to have management for the school, then without a party in the school community having multiple ownership. The division of tasks at the schools has until now been guided by central instructions. When the Training Act is introduced, these fall away and there is a greater chance of controlling the local methods. The government wants one to open up good local solutions when it comes to method selection, while we insist that the content must be more common. In his statement to the Stortinget, the Prime Minister presented several important objectives The Government is working towards – among others. ‘Simplified Norway’. This work is well under way by the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research, and we already have in this work a look at the interpellant Løvik points out. This is because we believe that greater self-government and less central governance also lead to a simpler Skule-Noreg. There are many ways to ensure a local action room. My censure to the school is: Utilize the space of action that is and that will be given. On my side, I will carefully assess in each case whether it is the State that knows best, or whether governance should be left to the municipality and the school. Government governance shall, in the first row, ensure equivalent supply throughout the country. At the same time, the action space shall be exploited through local freedom of choice. By finding a healthy balance here, we can develop a unity school with space for want. I think I'll be a school that combines the throne of central leaders and local spaces of action, while at the same time promoting quality and motivation. In the introduction, the interpellant gave a description of the situation as a principal experiences it, and it is probably experienced by a lot of people. I've seen municipalities and schools that have organized their schooling and schooling in a rather untraditional way, and that have also followed their curriculum and regulations. I think that a lot of people feel that all of'shall' in the curriculum should be a pretty heavy one on their shoulders. But at the same time, I don't think that by choosing other methods, it's opening up for it, it should be able to feel different. That's why it's important that we respect the experience of the teacher and the principal, but at the same time give the clear impression that it's opening to make it different and more localized. To the extent that there's not enough opening, we have to discuss it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e456	I thank the Council of State for your answer. He showed, as expected, a positive attitude to the question, and it's probably also a certain follow-up to what Lilletun said earlier in this case. When it comes to what the Council of State said that he would consider positively in each case the applications that had to come, or the measures that had to be proposed, I thought that there might be a little too much control from anywhere. I think we have to open more generally, so that one escapes to search every time one will get something new and positive done. The council also expressed the same thing as I said in my previous post, that the municipalities and the school must take advantage of the space for action. That's absolutely correct. But to go back a little bit to the relevant principal, as I quoted in my first post, and who, together with a colleague now, ends up in the school of pure frustration, he says among other things. further in Kommunal Report: "It is the state and municipal bureaucracy that has taken the stranglehold on the principals. Let us manage the schools ourselves, and free us from the municipal coercion. We are choked by forms, papers and reports that the public should have. There are still new economic-administrative tasks. Finally, it takes a lot of weight, and enough is enough."This says the two rectangles that are now ending. The frustration that many teachers and principals feel, and that we still encounter, comes not only from a lack of knowledge of the space they have for action. Elevar, schoolteachers and teachers are different, and if we are to achieve the goal of an equivalent offer, the individual teacher and principal must therefore be given a little more authority in general, not just as an attempt to adapt the education. The size should therefore send today the invitation to the Government contained in our proposals. There is also a signal to both schools and municipalities that several decisions should be taken as close to the debt, the student, as possible, that was also the subject of the Council of State's response. I have noticed that representatives from several parties have expressed similar thoughts. Representatives from both the Labour Party and the Advance Party expressed in the Evening Post on 17 March that it must be opened for greater pedagogical freedom. When, to some extent, the Council of State gives a signal in the same direction, I thought it was to hope that today there should be broad agreement on the proposals that have been made.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e476	The experience of being choked by forms is known. But it is clear that suffocation must be a bad feeling whatever it comes from, and forms must be dry in themselves. We've tried to go after this while we were evaluating Reform 94. It is quite clear that for some of the questions and forms the responsibility was originally central. But then we see that to make sure you have enough feedback systems, the county council is very often making very difficult arrangements, and the principal, who has this duty, is often filling in, so that the teacher feels that the breathing difficulties are getting big. Every time we in the department thought it would be interesting to know that and that, or we get a lunatic idea, we have a tendency to take action in addition to a new action and a new form. But I've said that every time we think about something like this -- and I have the same challenge for the Storting -- we're going to ask, is it so useful for us in general to know this that we're going to put people out of more stress, or isn't there any reason for that? And the same challenge we have to give to the county councils, the municipalities and the principals. Of course, the size must also think like that. It's an important balance. I agree with the representative Løvik that the pattern plan was originally too loose, and that one needed something more binding. I mean, there's a lot of good in the new curriculum, but there's no doubt that a lot of people experience it as a heavy one. Then we have challenged the teachers' organizations, which were very critical. I also disagreed while we were reforming that it would be a regulation, but I told the teachers' organizations when I started as a councillor: what do they want? Shall we look at this? Then they said we had a little more experience, and they were also a little confused. That's why we've solved, as it was done between years, and we're saying we're going to follow it more closely if we're also going to cancel it as a regulation. I think it is necessary to have experience before a conclusion is reached. In the case of the proposals, proposal No. 1 entirely in accordance with what we're going to do in the future, and I don't see any need to adopt it. I have already confirmed a lot of that in the interpellation response. In the case of the last proposal, it is possible in local authorities and in the training laws today that municipalities can determine this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e491	I feel that there is a relatively broad political consensus on the content of the interpellation we have to debate here today. I registered that State Council Lilletun when he offered St. Announcement. No 28 for 1998-99 ‘Towards richer objectives’, spent a lot of energy on emphasising that he would do a reversal of education policy, through more flexibility and local anchoring. But I think it is necessary to remember, which is also to be a response to the proposals of the interpellant, that the majority of the population, the Labour Party, the SV and the Centre parties, in connection with the suspension of the training law, have said the following: «State governance must ensure a common knowledge, culture and value base through nationally adopted curricula and national requirements for the competence of teaching staff. At the same time, the majority would point out that local adaptation and educational freedom need to be provided within the national frameworks so that the school can reflect the diversity of schools and communities in a good interaction between pupils, teachers and the community.’ I believe that in the past, the Stortinget has clearly adopted the intentions of proposal No. 1 from the interpellant, and I perceive what the post the council had here today, so that the government is in full work just with the main element of the proposal. That is why, in my view, it should be a transmission proposal. This is my recommendation, and the Labour Party has indirectly supported the intentions. In the case of proposal No: 2, we will support the Lilletun Council. I would recommend the Labour Party not to support that proposal, because we do not have enough basis today to see if that is the right way to do it. As far as the basis for the debate on local adaptation is concerned, there is clearly and openly a balance between the single school, equivalent offers and how much it should be broken down to local adaptations. That's what they say. Finally, I would also like to say that, as a representative of Oslo, I have been surprised at the Right when the Labour Party in Oslo Municipality has repeatedly tried to get a ‘school for the city’, i.e. get a much stronger localization. Then the right has been the party that has said on the contrary no, you still want a central school policy at primary school in Oslo, which is a relatively large municipality, to express me carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e509	It is a very interesting and important issue the representative Løvik addresses today. Personally, I must say that I raised my eyebrows a little when I read the interpellation. I figured we didn't have much to boast about when it was self-government in school, but we were so far behind other countries, was alarming. The comparison with Communist China speaks for itself. The Progress Party believes that we have a solution to this problem in our organization and funding model for the school system, known as the unit price or school system. We have explained in detail this model earlier in Stortinget. It is based on an exemption from schools, a freedom of choice for students and parents, and a funding related to how many students the school is training. Of course, in such a system there will have to be some key rules and standards to ensure quality that all students are provided with basic knowledge. But beyond this, the schools will be very free to operate, educational, pay, etc. Although the Progress Party would not have a majority for its model, there are opportunities to modify today's system and better self-government in Norwegian school. The Council of State has today outlined some possibilities. I should also like to refer to the proposals put forward by the Advance Party in connection with the treatment of St.meld by the Stortinges. No 14 for 1997-98, on parental participation in school. In connection with the treatment of this, we suggested, inter alia: to propose a significant increase in the power of each school board. Among other things, the school budgets would be given decision-making powers, opening hours and prices for renting out the school’s premises. It should also be possible to decide on the organisation of education, the timetable, the local curriculum and rules of conduct and discipline, to approve pedagogical measures and trials, to employ staff, and to manage admission and admission. So we feel that we have outlined good solutions in this area that should be considered. Finally, the proposals put forward by the representative, Mr Løvik, are a small step in the right direction and are likely to receive the support of the Advance Party if he insists on getting them to vote. But as outlined by Rune Kristiansen from the Workers' Party, the most natural thing will be a transmission, and we recommend it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e520	The relationship between central government and local government and school administration has many balances. You ask at school today, the answer is that too many people think that there is too much central government and too little autonomy. Locally, many schools today have their own budgetary responsibilities, and local authorities have given some schools a high degree of autonomy. The current system with a large part of the decision-making authority at municipal level should be retained. Decision-making is almost essential for users — teachers, students and parents. However, it should not be underestimated that narrow municipal budget frameworks are not always as inspiring for the individual school, if they might inspire ingenuity. A clear signal from the school is that current curricula feel too tight. They contain too little flexibility and go far too far in the description of the various subjects. The curriculum is binding on the training system in each school. Here it is important to find out, as the Council of State pointed out, that the regulations of the new training law will solve the constraints. Furthermore, it is positive that the Department will conduct an open dialogue and also allow trials at school. If you look at the potential for improvement in school today, I still think you should have so much ice in your stomach that you get more experience before starting major and comprehensive reforms. One must make the school work and develop and try new models within today's framework. Another clear response that a person gets when talking to school people is that youth has too much theory. Studies show that approximately 1⁄4 of the students do not presuppose bilingual foreign language teaching. One consequence is that you see, among other things, in my home municipality, by the fact that today's system provides little search for mechanical subjects. An evaluation of the Oslo Reform 94 supports this. Students in high school are too theoretically motivated and therefore continue to apply in theoretical subjects. The school shall motivate learning. Physics and chemistry require practical examples, the theory of light breaking and pH and other basic concepts are often taught much easier by practical experiments and exercises. But today's school is given opportunities for custom solutions, sharing the classes into different subjects, etc.? The current legislation and regulations for the school provide a room for action, and we need to get out the message that we are making maximum use of this space of action. Good school learning today will motivate locally-thought-out projects to make the best use of the framework provided by the law and the curriculum.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e537	If we had settled correctly in this country, the school would have been the most attractive of all jobs, and one would have been in line to get permission to work. We all know that it's not like that. We have seen clear trends in the last decade to the contrary: the stronger the rhetoric has become political about the importance of school and knowledge, the fewer the queues are to be allowed to work in school, and the more people leave a job in school. That's what we have to take over and take seriously. There is no doubt that one of the reasons for this is the bureaucratic trend to which the teaching profession has been subject and which is clearly perceived as giving less freedom of expression, it gives less of confidence to the professional by the contracting entity than a professional would wish. That is why I think there is room for recalibration in Norwegian school thinking by introducing the principle of subsidiarity that has been discussed in other political contexts. Instead of asking how far we can go in delegating decision-making powers from above the system and downwards, the opposite question should be asked: What decisions are needed to move up, and what decisions can be made in favour of each classroom, individual teacher and individual principal of each school? It should be such that no decision in Norwegian school is moved a step higher than what is necessary according to the nature of the decision. In its reply, the Council of State said that the government management of the school should primarily ensure one purpose, namely equivalent training provision. I agree with the heart. However, there is no necessary contradiction between having an equivalent national training offer and allowing freedom and diversity in terms of the organisational and pedagogical handling of tasks. However, the premise that we can have an equivalent education offer is that we have a national assessment system that allows us to determine whether students actually get an equivalent benefit from their schooling. I think, quite frankly, that the answer must be that we must stop believing in rule and regulation management, which we have largely invested in so far, and instead bet on the method used in almost all other areas of society, that is to check the quality of the results and then leave to the practitioners to find out how to achieve the results. Then I think we can turn that stream away from the school that we see today, and that we can go back to Norwegian school as an attractive workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e544	The centre party is in favour of decentralisation in general and is therefore on guard against centralized override. From this point of view, Petter Løvik’s interpellation is important and in line with the Government’s goal of red tape of the school. That being said, I would nevertheless like to emphasise that there must be central objectives so that we can secure the single school, an equivalent school for all regardless of economic background, place of residence and abilities. L97 has been characterised as too strongly governing. Now the L97 is under evaluation, so I choose to wait until the result of this evaluation is available before I draw for bastant conclusions. But I would argue that today there is a variety of room for local decisions regarding pedagogical arrangements, the choice of textbooks, the organisation of school day and education. The Council of State indicated that the Ministry no longer has the general authority to issue regulations for primary school. It in itself limits central governance. [[Tingles]] As the Center Party sees it, school leaders, teachers and parents have great freedom of action if the actors know how to use the space of action that exists. There are many good examples of that happening, but I notice that the interpellant didn't have the same experience. The structure of the teaching is, among other things: depending on the interpretation of the curriculum made by the teacher. This, together with the choice of methods, is what characterizes the teacher as a professional trainer. According to the Evening Post on March 18, this year, the Right Leader has stated that we need a whole new curriculum, and that clear demands must be made on the school as to the objectives it will achieve in the field of education. ‘But how they achieve the objectives should be largely left to each school’, continues Petersen. Yeah, I agree with the last one. But I think the school has a lot of this opportunity today. That is why, in my opinion, the Right proposal, no. One, not necessary. As one teacher said to me today early when he saw the proposal: this is happening today. I do not agree with the Right-leader when he wants parental schools, as shown in the same newspaper article. Does the Right really think that this would ensure a qualitatively better school for everyone? We have recently adopted the Training Act, which says that no single group should have a majority in cooperation committees. This was not a prominent requirement in the consultation round on the Training Act either. On the other hand, it is very important that parents engage in school and become involved in the training of their children. Here it is a great potential for improvement. Municipalities can delegate decision-making powers to individual schools if they want to, even in the budgetary area, which we have just heard others talk about. The central party wants municipal autonomy to function, and will encourage municipalities to stimulate, among other things. more localised development work within the school, as permitted by the new Training Act. In this regard, it is interesting to note that this winter and spring, the local community's Central Association has a very school theme at its conferences – and that's good.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e568	The left share the concerns of the representative Løvik regarding the detailed management of the Norwegian school. Many years of centralized reform and the development of a detailed school management system have made many teachers and school leaders feel more like the bottom bureaucrats in a top-class school hierarchy than the self-educated educators to which they are educated. If the school is to be the good school we want, this development must be reversed. Schools and educators need more freedom for creative energy to be triggered. In the left, we believe in teachers and school leaders. They just have to get room to do their job. I am pleased that the Department now has a political leadership to address these problems. The left wants a liberal single school that maintains both the basic objective of the public school as a common meeting place for children with different social and cultural backgrounds and recognises that diversity is positive and should be valued. We will return the school to independent institutions where creativity and creativity are to be cultivated among the individual teacher and student, not choked by directives from above or by one-sided education. The keywords are better quality, more variation and more flexibility. A committed community is necessary for the good school. And school management must give the feeling that important decisions about school are taken on the ground and by the daily users and managers of the school. In this way we get a decentralization of the decisions, and the school can be released from bureaucratic override. The left wants a national framework for school content, but much less detailed management within these frameworks, especially in terms of methodology. We are critical that the curriculum has the status of regulation, and it is positive that the Council of State will now assess this. The government’s large-scale project on a simpler Norway, which is subject to regulations and laws aimed at eliminating unnecessary bureaucracy and over-management, must include the school to the greatest extent possible. The goal must be a simpler school Norway, both for school users and managers. I am pleased that the department is doing this work. The new Training Act opens up several ways to manage schools. The important thing is that each school's management and teachers must have real opportunities to develop their school according to local environment conditions, based on pedagogical knowledge. As the Council of State points out, there are many possibilities in the experimental paragraph of the law, and it is important to make known and inspire schools and municipalities to make use of freedom. The peak reform period must be over. From now on, changes and creativity should derive in reality from the individual school, not from the head of an overly rigid government council.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e585	Local self-government in relation to school policy has been thoroughly highlighted by the Council of State today, and he has rightly pointed out that it is bounded by economics, legislation and, not least, collective agreements. In addition, there are a wide range of regulations and curricula that also have regulatory character. As the Council of State correctly pointed out, it is possible to carry out experimental activities under its own jurisdiction. The only question is that if at any time all municipalities are to avail themselves of this right, the possibility of a ‘counsel’ would no longer be a topicality while all of these pilot projects are under way. The Progress Party does not initially object to this, but there is a massive majority in this House – the exclusive Progress Party – that will not be able to close its eyes for that to happen. So the Council of State further says that in Norway we have made a choice in terms of ‘what level’ to take responsibility. And we have it. We have a long tradition of municipalities taking responsibility for schooling. But what is the responsibility of the municipalities? Municipalities take responsibility for buildings, pay for teachers, lack of maintenance – because they do not have money for it – etc. This is not a positive sign of self-government. And how does this responsibility and this right of self-determination relate to the massive closure of small schools that we see every year in favour of centralisation? The Council of State also referred to ‘Towards richer objectives’ and evaluation. He himself has stated that he wants the school to evaluate itself substantially. He's been talking about different kinds of teacher-driven evaluation. What must be the purpose of an equivalent training offer, which is agreed by many here, including the Progress Party, is to set a common knowledge target and to evaluate the acquired knowledge of children in relation to this objective. An objective assessment must then be carried out and can hardly be carried out by colleagues at the same school or, where appropriate, in the same municipality. I would once again like to point out that, as late as last year's budgetary procedure, the Progress Party presented several proposals aimed at giving each school greater autonomy. No one voted for these, except for the Advancement Party, so the Right is a little late out.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e598	There's an interesting debate the representative Løvik is drawing up. Several of us raised the eyebrows when we saw the statements on the OECD report. But the situation is not as dramatic as the interpellation text bears the mark. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, today we have an exciting curriculum for primary school. The changes in the Training Act now give schools greater flexibility in the organisation of education, both in terms of content and methodology. The new training plan regulation now being consulted will replace a pile, not to mention several pages, with the names of regulations. It also makes the legislation more transparent. In my opinion, the main challenge today is to inform about the opportunities offered by the curriculum to organise education in line with the needs of the class in order to get the desired development, and also to motivate teachers and teachers to use the opportunities. I take it as a matter of course that the Council of State is providing information and motivations to take advantage of the opportunities that lie there. We need time for primary school to take advantage of the possibilities. Everyone who knows the school knows that change takes time, and we also need to gain experience to see if the rules and curriculum themselves are wrong. We need to establish a national assessment system that can help inspire schools for local development and adaptation. St.meld. No 28 for 1998-99, Towards richer goals, gives us the opportunity to focus on quality in learning environments and in the learning process. In its treatment, Stortinget has good opportunities to focus on this. Local development councils are also, in my view, an action that can deliver good results to strengthen the initiative locally and to support active principals and teachers. At all, my experience with Norwegian school is that where you have an initiative-driven school manager, who actually takes advantage of the opportunities, it's a very good learning environment with good learning outcomes. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, we are on the right track. Keywords such as new training law with the necessary flexibility, test paragraph, high awareness of the dangers of red tape and a national assessment system with emphasis on local school development are signals that we are on the way. The signals from the Stortinget and the Council of State to exploit the space for action are clear. I therefore feel the proposals of the representative, Mr Løvik, to open doors, and therefore ask the representative to convert the proposals into transmission proposals. I feel that the interpellant has received a positive response from the Council of State and in the debate, and therefore decisions should be unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e614	I just have to express great joy at the debate we have had here today, and the views expressed both by the Council of State and by the various parties. We're on the way, say more, we're going in the direction that the proposals indicate. Nevertheless, there are a couple of points that it has been made as if it is a little awkward, and that I therefore want to comment on. The representative, Rune Kristiansen, was concerned with the relationship between the unicorn and the equivalent supply and this with localization. I think we all are. But I think there's reason to stress that when we talk about an equivalent offer, and when we know that the students are different, I think we're all going to realize that we're going to give different elephants an equivalent offer, we can't give them a similar offer, but we have to give them a different offer that suits their abilities. If we're going to be able to fulfill the idea that we're all a few people about giving an equivalent offer, the individual teacher has to have the ability to adapt the teaching to a much greater extent than today. So I don't believe the representative Kristiansen and I disagree in this area either. So named the representative Tingelstad's parents' role. It's correct, as Tingelstad said, that the Right will give parents a stronger role, a stronger influence on the management of the school. In fact, I believe that the representative Tingelstad is also positive about this. The law and Norwegian tradition at school indicate that parents have a strong role to play. Which way to strengthen the influence of parents, their responsibilities and the role of parents, we can rather discuss, but I believe that on that point too there is a broad agreement. But even if parents' role is important, I think it's the bureaucracy that a lot of teachers and principals experience, which is the most important thing we have to do. It is also correct, as the representative Lyngstad says, that motivating and informing about the space for action that exists is important. I already said that in my first post. That's where we have the exact same opinion. But we're not going to give up the job we have to do, which I understand is that the bulk of the population is willing to take, simply to do our part of the job in order to get a simpler everyday life and a better Norwegian school. When there are various requests for transmission, I will come back to it in connection with voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e627	Like the interpellant, I also thought it was an interesting debate, and one is quite clearly a few about some objectives. The representative of Lyngstad takes it as of course that it is being informed, and he is quite right about that. But I think we need to intensify that work, and I think we all have a job to do here, not least the Council of State. It's quite obvious that either it's really such that you've been red taped, or you're just experiencing it like that, it's necessary to take that experience seriously, and then we need to inform you about the space that exists. I will take it seriously to strengthen this work further. When it comes to the exciting balance point, the representative on the pay side talks about, what is needed is taken centrally from the point of view that most should be located locally, I think it is very much explained in the plans that lead. But it's very clear that only one person has been able to communicate the central part. That's why the information job Lyngstad is talking about, important. Furthermore, we need to evaluate. If there are so many regulations that we don't get creativity going, we have to change. Professor Smith, who was a central man behind the training law, and who ran the selection that awarded it, said at a seminar that the department had a while ago, that the form of a curriculum was not very well suited to regulations. It tells us that here we are in some dilemma, which I am aware of and will follow closely. But I believe, at the same time – once we have implemented the reforms, and in part at a great pace – that when we are going to make changes now, we need these debates, like the one we have had today. But we also need to have a plan so that one doesn't do things again so fast that people don't experience ownership. We have to do the right call, we have to answer it and we have to make corrections, but at the same time we don't have to do it to make changes over the neck and head. I take the signal from here, and I have the enormous confidence in the committee that I should not be able to do anything about this, I don't think it's being completely set.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e638	So the debate is on case No. 2 o'clock. [[Opinion on proposals, see page 2657]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e652	The Act of 8 December 1950, Section 6, third paragraph, states that, in order to obtain Norwegian citizenship, a person shall be released from his original residence. Nevertheless, in practice this does not apply to 100 percent. The Council of Europe Convention of 6 May 1963, which Norway acceded to in 1969, entitled ‘The Convention on the reduction of cases of double nationality and military obligations’, and the last accession we made, 5 November 1997, in respect of the Council of Europe’s new Convention on Citizenship, do not preclude cases of dual citizenship. The latter specifically states that individual countries should be able to decide for themselves. The majority of the Committee agrees with the Ministry of Justice that, in cases where a country does not redeem its original inhabitants from its original or first nationality, a double nationality may be permitted. Not many countries are involved. According to a letter from the Department of the Advancement Party, it is Argentina, Bulgaria, Costa Rica, Iran, Lebanon and Uruguay. In this case, there is talk of people who have been living in Norway for many years, who are in fact Norwegians in line with everyone else, who do not have the opportunity to be disbanded from their original citizenship. Then it is reasonable that we should also allow them to have Norwegian citizenship. With regard to the so-called subsequent solution, I fully agree with the proposers that there is too much slack practice today. This means that there is no sanctioning option, according to what the department itself says, and the department itself has mentioned sanctions that may be applicable. One of these options is the agreement of the majority of the committee, namely that we want to have a new practice that requires an undertaking on Norwegian citizenship to be able to provide evidence of the disappearance of the other citizenship, but only once that documentation has been provided becomes a Norwegian national. There is a real convergence with today's system, and that means that, in most cases, the intention of the proposers' proposals would actually be fulfilled. What remains then is the cases I mentioned instead, where the State itself does not solve the person from the original citizenship, it must be possible to have dual citizenship. Otherwise we have the cases of marriage, birth and adoption, which can also lead to double citizenship. Where the Progress Party stands out, it is primarily on the point of people who cannot be disbanded from their original citizenship. We feel it goes on human dignity to give them an opportunity to become citizens of the country they really live in.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e665	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e668	I would like to pay tribute to the rapporteur for having managed to get a majority far in the direction of the views of the Progress Party on this matter. In particular, he underlined the system of subsequent solutions, which is practised in a good number of countries. There will now only be a commitment to citizenship, and then, of course – since Norwegian citizenship is very high – it will be attractive for a potential citizen of Norway to obtain the necessary papers and documentation so that Norwegian citizenship can be granted. However, as the rapporteur also pointed out, there are some countries that do not solve their citizens. And I actually think there are far more countries than the list that we've been informed about. Then there's another thing that I can't see is mentioned in the comments from the committee. There are some immigrant countries where parents come to Norway and become Norwegian citizens in the first generation, and then the second and third generations, i.e. their children and grandchildren, will be able to have citizenship in the country of origin. So here in Oslo, where there are many people who have double passports today, it will be so that they will also be able to give their children and grandchildren double passports. I wonder: Why has this not been evaluated? In other countries, when discussing the issue of dual citizenship, the argument for integration has also been raised as important. They think it's unfortunate that an immigrant has one leg in each country. Why have these things not been evaluated? Shouldn't that mean that something went further in this case when it came to trying to eliminate the possibility of double citizenship?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e675	As for the first thing that the representative Hedstrøm raised, that there were more than six countries that did not allow their original inhabitants to lose their first citizenship, it may well be more than six. But I don't think that's a big point. The point here is that in cases where one cannot be dissociated from its original citizenship, human considerations mean that in any case Norwegian citizenship must be granted. In the case of children, grandchildren, etc. As Hedstrom finally mentions, it is true that there is nothing to be said about it in the Committee's file, nor has it been discussed in the Committee. This issue has also not been addressed by the representatives of the Progress Party in the Committee, so it has not been included in the picture. I don't want to comment on it any more, except that it goes on, perhaps are more fundamental attitudes towards immigration and people with a cultural background – what separates the Progress Party from the other parties in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e682	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e685	The Progress Party has long been skeptical that many immigrants have had good opportunities to acquire double or triple citizenship when they become Norwegian citizens. We have the position that it is in the interests of the nation to avoid as much as possible double citizenship. And the arguments are very clear. The State of dual citizenship allows persons to legally represent Norway and another country. They may be eligible for election to the Storting, participate in governing bodies, hold public offices and have positions in the Norwegian defence and other advanced positions, and at the same time have, in whole or in part, the same rights and powers in the country of origin. Here it is, among other things. subsequent arrangements for changing citizenship which have not worked satisfactorily. Firstly, our authorities have not been in control of how many have acquired double citizenship at the time of the conclusion of Norwegian citizenship. Secondly, there is no updated list of the number of countries that practise subsequent solutions for citizenship. I have no written documentation, but I assume that there are more than 40 countries – and many in the Third World – that have this system. With the immigrant wave we've had in the last 25 years to Norway, there's reason to believe that a significant number have had double citizenship. This has been possible because our authorities have not been consistent in the requirement for documentation on solutions from the original citizenship. If the immigrants have not followed up, the Norwegian authorities have not had a sanctioning option and the results have become as they have been. It is therefore gratifying when the majority of the population follow up the proposals of the Progress Party for a while and asks the Government to introduce a new practice to counteract the possibility of dual citizenship. Only by making a commitment to citizenship will immigrants be given an incentive to arrange the necessary papers documenting the solution from the nationality of their country of origin, because Norwegian citizenship is highly valued. Although the Progress Party has not been fully implemented, it is gratifying that the political majority is on the run and is approaching our solutions in this area too, and I would say it spurs renewed efforts. Why is the Progress Party so committed to demanding the loss of original citizenship in order to achieve a Norwegian? Well, in some situations it may harm Norwegian interests that immigrants have dual citizenship. With civil rights in several countries, there may be doubts about loyalty, and I will elaborate on this. The development of the Third World is worrying in many ways. I want to take Pakistan as an example, because it is from here that Norway has got the largest quota of non-Western immigrants. The National Assembly has recently decided to introduce the Islamic Shari'a law as its top law. If amendments to the Constitution are implemented, Islamic law will be elevated to the country’s basic legal framework. The Pakistani government is under increasing pressure from fundamentalist circles which have Islamic law as their priority political objectives. Much may suggest that Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif will introduce Islamic law, and that is the heavy, primitive, medieval form of Islam he resorts to. The Koran and Sunni-Islamic principles that applied in the days of the prophet Muhammad can take absolute precedence over the country's present laws. I would like to quote a reference in the VG of 31 August 1998: “Christians are the lowest in Pakistan.”... “Christians are concentrated in certain areas.”... “They have no right of destination in the government.”... “Every Muslim is the master of every Christian. If you go against the commandments of your "lord", it can mean death. So the 10 000-kroner question is: if people who come from fundamentalist countries and get double citizenship in Norway, where is loyalty? I will take an example: the Ministry of Defence has considered quotas for immigrants into the Defence. One of the reasons is that one believes the level of defence will be raised. But one must also be allowed to ask: What about the loyalty of a war situation? It is very likely that future conflicts to which Norway must send UN soldiers will be ethnic or religious in nature. What can happen in the future in the Balkans, in Iraq or the Middle East? The reactions to the Rushdie and Nadia cases show at least where the loyalty of some immigrants lies. It's not in Norway, but in another religion, culture or ethnic group. Are we going to take the chance that this could negatively affect Norway in a war or crisis situation? Double citizenship may also have a negative impact on the process of integration. All experience and reports show that the integration of Norwegian society has been totally unsuccessful. How is successful integration to be achieved when many immigrants with dual citizenship have strong links with more countries? How should Oslo, who today has 13 pst? remote-cultural immigrants and many with two sets of passports achieve successful integration? I'm just asking. This case has even more pages on which there is reason to ask questions. In the case of second and third generations of immigrants born in Norway, it is possible for some countries of origin to have citizenship in these countries, even though the children are born and growing up in Norway. This means that immigrants with double citizenship can continue to increase in numbers as children are born. I might be tempted to ask, how many people with double citizenship will Oslo eventually get? It is unfortunate that the Norwegian authorities do not have an overview of the scope of dual citizenship either in the case of legislation in different countries or of the number of persons involved. In the light of the arguments I have mentioned, there will be a great need to establish a register of those with dual citizenship in Norway. I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party, which is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e714	The representative Hedstrøm has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e719	I would like to distance myself from the statement made by the representative Hedstrom that the other parties are drifting in the direction of the Advance Party. What we have done is what we think makes sense in this matter, based on the human considerations that need to be taken, and should be taken. However, what I want to ask Hedstrøm about is: For a short time ago, Odelstinget dealt with the law on Norwegian national law and on adoption. Then it was actually so that the Progress Party itself was in favour of double citizenship. It's just reading Innst. O. No 32 for 1998-99, which has been treated in Odelstinget for a short time. If you first have the opportunity to limit access to dual citizenship, then why has one agreed to it when it comes to adoption?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e724	What the Progress Party is dealing with is what we, as a nation, have also said in relation to international conventions. I am thinking of the Council of Europe Convention on the Limitation of Double Citizenship. But it is clear that there are different points of view out here in Europe. The conventions to which the countries have acceded provide both for the possibility of entering into dual and single citizenship in each country of the Convention. Nevertheless, I now think that I have brought a good deal of views to reflect on in all the political parties represented in this Chamber. I cannot agree with the rapporteur when he says that the political majority is not drifting towards the position of the Progress Party. In the case of a subsequent solution, it's obvious. One no longer wants, as it has been practised, to give the possibility of dual citizenship, because the immigrant, if all other elements are present for Norwegian citizenship, must obtain the necessary papers and documentation. Then I do not understand the logic of the case rapporteur when he can claim that the political majority on the matter is not on the way to moving towards the position of the Progress Party. But what I think is very happy, although the rapporteur will not admit it, is that at least it will be the practical consequence. And as I understand it, the Justice Committee – where I am not a member – will deal with the law of national law, and you have a leadership that binds up the political parties to what they have said today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e729	The fact that dual citizenship is undesirable is an old attitude that, in itself, has been known in – I kept saying – all the time. Now I shouldn't have said that, but at least it's been a basic position that double citizenship has been perceived as undesirable. In this way, the attitude of the Progress Party is not new; it is in itself comprehensive for what most of us have thought. What has been the traditional example of dual citizenship has been a child born in England by Norwegian parents, because in England you have citizenship according to where you were born, and in Norway according to the citizenship of your parents. This is in itself an old issue, completely independent of new circumstances claimed by the Progress Party over the past 25 years. One thing now has to be the attitude of the Progress Party towards immigration in general, they often have good reason to distance themselves, but there may be reason to ask the representative Hedstrøm two concrete questions: Does the real representative Hedstrøm find it reasonable that a person who wants Norwegian citizenship, and who does not have the opportunity to renounce his own citizenship, should not have Norwegian citizenship, when it is to Norway he or she perceives a clear relationship – that is where one lives and wants to live, and that is where one wants to have influence? If the attitude of the Progress Party is gained, the result will be that no Norwegian citizenship will be acquired. And: doesn't the representative Hedstrøm see that there can be a point in getting Norwegian citizenship compared to precisely that will promote integration in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e739	I agree with the representative Hove that the Norwegian citizens' right law has been on the back of the neck for a few years, and therefore the issues we are travelling today have not been raised in the past. But I'm going to say that they're getting more and more up-to-date. As we have more immigrants in Norway, the problems of dual citizenship will increase. That is what is the background for me to address this matter and raise this question. So to this with the benefit of getting Norwegian citizenship even if one is not disbanded from the citizenship of the country of origin. Those who look a little beyond Norway’s borders also see this problem in other countries, such as Norway. in Germany, where there are several million Turks who the German government has now refused dual citizenship because they are not being disbanded from their Turkish citizenship. It is not entirely parallel to the situation in Norway, but one of the reasons for Germany's failure to grant dual citizenship is that these millions of German citizens become German citizens, the possibilities of family reunification and large, heavy social assistance payments to spouses will be present. We do not want the German economy to be burdened with that. When it comes to getting Norwegian citizenship, you have a choice here: either you get Norwegian citizenship, or you keep the original citizenship. In the absence of a solution, Norway should, through international channels, try to influence countries to solve their citizens from the citizenship of the country of origin.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e748	As for Hedstrøm's continuing claim that the other parties are moving in their direction, I would like to repeat what I had in the past: the Norwegian law on national law states that the normal should be one citizenship, the other is, after all, all exceptions. I myself was a member of the political leadership of the previous government – in the Ministry of Local Affairs – and I presented the Communication of Integration, where we also stated this. So to the third question, the question of double citizenship by adoption, to which Hedstrom's elegant lot was to answer. Except in one case, the Progress Party, together with the other parties, is in a single committee and accepts dual citizenship, and that case has just been dealt with by the Stortinget. I ask Hedstrom again: can we get an explanation of the attitude of the Progress Party in that case? It is completely inconsistent with what Hedstrom has just said.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e755	Unfortunately, I cannot answer the question raised by the rapporteur here. I will admit that here and now. If this matter was dealt with in the Judicial Committee, I assume – I am sitting on the Trade Committee and cannot be up-to-date at all times on all matters, and I am asking for an understanding of it, but our position on dual citizenship has been known for a long time, and this case has been dealt with in our fraction and in the group for a long time ago – that our representatives in the Judicial Committee can provide a reason why they may have accepted this with regard to the situation of adoption mentioned by the case rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e762	There seems to be a fundamental difference between the Progress Party and most other parties in the Storting in the sense that most of us others are trying to work for consensus. And when the distance is as small as the apparent one is in this case, it's not easy for me to see why the Progress Party insists on maintaining its own proposal that is not very far from the majority of people. I want to mention a concrete reason why we do not want absolute wording. Many of the countries that are not willing to disband their citizens from citizenship are at the same time countries that, in relation to human rights, are among the most fundamentalist in the world. We have a country called Iran. Iran is a country that condemns its citizens to the death penalty for all eternity. It could have been thought that such a citizen — we would like to make it concrete to Salman Rushdie — would have felt more reassuring for his life and dignity to become a citizen of a country that recognized him alive. If that were the motive, does the representative Hedstrom think it would be reasonable that because the regime in Tehran refused to remove him from his citizenship, we should not have the opportunity to grant him citizenship in Norway? Otherwise, I fully agree with what Hedstrom said, that in parallel with such a concession, it would be quite natural to use the channels you might have to try to get the regime to state this little humane policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e771	The Party wishes to have a very restrictive position and not to grant citizenship if the original citizenship has not been abolished. We'll be consistent on this, but of course, we can always find some outrated positions, etc., so that there may be opportunities to grant exemptions. But we want to have a very restrictive view of that. But I'm glad that the representative Hernæs got a little bit into the situation in other countries, because there's a lot more conscious of these issues of citizenship than we are here in Norway. Here the consequences have almost not been discussed. I am also pleased that he mentioned Iran, as for example. does not allow anyone other than Muslims to join the Iranian army. It's not like that in Norway, it's not like that in the Nordic countries, but in many countries you're much more aware of this because you see the consequences, and we should be a little more comfortable here in Norway too.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e780	I will not extend this debate much, but I would like to ask the representative Hedstrom if he really believes that Norway should let its positions be determined by the attitudes of a country like Iran.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e785	The answer to that question is self-evident. Of course, each country must take account primarily of the situation in its own country, but we must be able to look beyond its borders and learn some lessons and experience of the legislation in other countries. I want to repeat: one is much more aware of these questions internationally than we are in Norway. They are discussed much more because the consequences of not having a specific regulatory framework are assessed. I would also like to repeat that in Iran only Muslims can participate in the Iranian army, and that also applies in a number of other areas. I can frame examples of this from many other countries. But there is one thing this matter symbolizes, as we also see when it comes to asylum, refugee and immigration matters: in this Chamber the Progress Party is often on one side against the rest. But we have one advantage, we know that we have large parts of the Norwegian people with us. They agree with us, although to a large extent the political environments do not want to say it – at least not publicly – that they have members who agree with us. For example, I want to do this. mention Ingvald Godal from the Right, who has many parallel views with the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e792	: The chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e795	After reading a committee position that I think was tidy and in principle, I have with some wonder followed the debate that is commuting between the principle and the practical reality policy. I will not try to go into those aspects of it, but pay attention to saying the following: It is, as has been mentioned by several speakers, a general rule in the Norwegian Act on Citizenship that one should have such citizenship and not more. It is also true, as several speakers have pointed out, that the so-called successor regime has so far had no practical sanctions if it has not been followed up. That is why, in the last days of my predecessor's regime, on 11 March, a comprehensive circular was sent out that clarifies the so-called successor system in the way that I also perceive that several speakers have been involved, that they are given an undertaking about Norwegian citizenship, provided that they are released from their old age. Then you have one year on it, and then this has to be done. Then you get citizenship, given that you're out of the old. In practice, a system of penalties has been put in place for what has previously been intended as a general rule. The Government has also set up its own authority to make a new proposal on citizenship, which the Committee has also noted. In this context, the Government has specifically asked that one look at the question of dual citizenship and in its position come back to whether we should have more or less of it. That means, of course, that Stortinget gets it as a matter of its own. However, let me make some fundamental comments on the issue of citizenship without making this an isolated asylum and immigration debate. It should be well known that the whole Western tradition is based on the notion of ‘citizen’. It should also be clear that the rights and obligations of the citizen in a democracy are reflected in citizenship, and it should be known that a general public in Norway has thought that Norwegian citizenship is an important aspect in promoting what is called integration into immigration policy. There seems to be general rules in a Norwegian political debate. Then there's an exciting question that I'm not going to address, which is what kind of challenges we're going to have in relation to our thinking about citizenship when we incorporate, as we're going to do later today, human rights conventions in Norwegian law. In principle, I am not going to go into the legal aspects, but rather to say the following: it is possible to perceive, as I see that the Storting will now add up, the human rights as an international, broad understanding of the ideals which are initially in the understanding of the concept of the 'citizen', that is, the human beings, the individuals, have rights, and that the rights are expressed in a democracy as 'citizens', which in turn is legally regulated to citizenship as one of the aspects of it, and which is expressed in other contexts by human rights, where one has an individual-oriented understanding of the people of society and how these individuals collectively constitute society. I just want to be very careful about mentioning these principal remarks. I think it might be nice to have a principal backcloth in one case, and I think the committee has handled it that way. Of course, we will follow up on the Committee's comments, and this will be done primarily by the committee set up to look at the issue of citizenship.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e808	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e811	It was after a number of enquiries that I started working on this Document No. The 8th proposal. And what I was very surprised about -- Norway is known for having an incredible number of control arrangements in different areas of society -- was that it actually didn't have an overview of how many people with double citizenship there were in Norway. I have no evidence of that, I want to stress it, but I think it is between 40 and 45 countries that practice the subsequent solution, and we know that the Norwegian authorities have not had sanctions and have not followed up all the cases. In the media, there are a number of issues, both football players and the Nadia case, where people have dual citizenship. In the light of what I and others have mentioned in the debate on, among other things, loyalty, I think it should be a priority to get an overview of how many people there are in Norway who have double citizenship. There may be situations in the Norwegian community as it may be convenient to have that information available, so I would like to ask the Council of State: will he start a job so that we can get an overview of the number of people in Norway with double citizenship?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e821	It appeared from my statement and from the Committee's position that a selection was actually set up to look at the issue of new citizenship law. It was also apparent from my statement, as from the Committee's position, that there is also a need to look at dual citizenship in this context. I suppose it would be reasonable in this context to look at the extent of this issue in terms of both quality and quantity challenges. And without going into the sample's work, I would say that with the knowledge I have of how samples normally work in Norway, it's a common form of work that you try to figure out what you're facing, how extensive it is, what challenges it's going on, and how you deal with it. I don't intend to try to control the details of such an expected normal form of work and will, of course, relate to a sample that is reduced and is working seriously, doing its job. I see then no reason to act as if it did not, and for safety reasons also perform a double job if necessary. As a government council, I rely on the simple principle that when people are assigned responsibility and trust, they will also be able to care for it. If it turns out it's not like that, there's a lot of practical ways it can be followed up, if necessary. But that's not my starting point. I expect that the selection that is reduced will do a real job at this point as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e828	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e831	Øystein Hedstrøm, on behalf of the Progress Party, has examined the matter and the important points that led us to promote this proposal to limit the possibilities of dual citizenship. It is gratifying that at least the bulk of the population has followed us in the argument, and followed up and adjusted the legislation we have in this area. Well, that's good. But then to the discussion that the Labour Party and the case-rapporteur, Mr Rasmussen, drew up here, namely that the Progress Party does not have a consistent line with regard to the proposal we have presented today and with regard to adoption. Yes, of course we do! Int. O. No 32 from the Judicial Committee, reference was made to the proposal for amendments to the Civil and Adoption Law. The conclusion was that foreign children under the age of 12 who are adopted by Norwegian citizens should automatically acquire Norwegian citizenship – ergo they automatically get Norwegian citizenship – and the other they have should fall away. It says in the position, and it was the main argument from the Progress Party when the Justice Committee dealt with this, that when we have a regulatory framework that opens up for adoption, which we think is a very good way to help parents who are childless and who have no other options, we open up this. We think it is right and fair that if parents are Norwegian citizens, the child who is adopted must also have Norwegian citizenship. But as a special remark goes on in that position, the Progress Party was pleased with the legislation that was for children with Norwegian father in relation to the citizenship itself. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights took a position on this subject. citizenship when the granddaughter was Norwegian and had accepted the fathership and this father may have died before the child was born. One has mixed many arguments in this debate on the matter we are dealing with today to try to present it as if the Progress Party is inconsistent in its argument. But we're not. We want a clean-up with regard to the possibilities of dual citizenship. We also want a clean-up in terms of subsequent solutions. After all, all parties must serve to ensure that we have clean relations in this area. One thing that I am concerned about, and that concerns me, is all those with dual citizenship who today have power and influence with regard to municipal and county elections in the Kingdom of Norway, while taking on their duties in the countries of origin from which they come. Here, as a small nation, we can have conflicts in the long term. We in the Progress Party do not think that is a correct and correct policy. With regard to the issue of review of the electoral law and its updating, the Ministry has addressed many of these fundamental questions and submitted them to the Stortinget for clarification. So here's a connection from the Progress Party. We are pleased that we have come one step on the right path in clearing up these matters, and I have the confidence in the new Minister of Justice that the follow-up to the decision that is being taken today is being made. I would also like to stress that it is a cross-section of thought that in Norway we do not have an overview of how many people have dual citizenship, how many can this apply. When there's a possibility that the second and third generations can still hold this, it's important that one get done something about it, that one get to put your foot down, and that one get precise rules to deal with, rules that are also in line with what the Norwegian people think in this area, and that's what we have taken the initiative on.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e844	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e847	Now we're not going to let this become a debate on another matter. I just want to stress again what I said before, that the Progress Party has agreed to accept what goes on in dual citizenship, assuming that we are going to have a non-discrimination between children born in marriage and children who are adopted. The only case in which they book is relative to Norwegian father. That's what I said in my post instead. Nor in the other cases concerning birth and marriage, did the Progress Party propose to abolish citizenship. I stand by that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e854	I have to clarify again: we've gone in to get some clarity in the system that's been in this area. And I have to repeat that what the Progress Party said with the majority in the position of the Justice Committee on amendments to the law on adoption and to the law on Norwegian national law, we also thought was a step in the right direction. The main point of the change in the guidelines was that children under the age of 12 who are adopted by Norwegian citizens would automatically receive Norwegian citizenship. Here it was not about double citizenship, but that we wanted a system that would allow them to automatically acquire Norwegian citizenship. That's the principal content of the proposition, and we've supported it. In addition, we had a special comment in the position on the matter that the case rapporteur for the matter we are discussing today, Jan Petter Rasmussen from the Workers' Party, was here. It applied to the limitation in relation to the father of the child. We're good at it. We're happy with what we've done, and we're following the line that we think is beneficial for both King and Fatherland and all the people that this includes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e863	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2657]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e879	The courts are the third state power. The functioning of the courts must therefore be an important issue for the Grand Duchy. This also applies to who are judges and to what else is the composition of the courts. TV2 had for approx. a month and a half ago, a documentation of who is selected as a layman to the courts, with a particular focus on the fact that there are many politicians among them. This is interesting and important, although it might also have been interesting to get more aspects highlighted than just the question that some are politicians. On the basis of this TV2 programme, we have had a public debate, both on the question of the selection of trainees and on another issue, namely the issue of the influence of laymen from political organisations. I'm going to do both of these questions in the post. If we look at the background of the toys system in Norway, the introduction of a jury in criminal matters and the use of children as judges was an important part of the democratisation of power in Norway. As Rune Slagstad says in his new book, there was an important reform in the «Left State of 1884». In our century, there has been hardly any debate about the laymen and the system of laymen themselves, only on the question of the way in which laymen should participate, in the form of a jury or in the form of a co-judgment. The question of the role of the laity in the courts may have been so obvious that it has closed to ask questions about the functioning of the laity system and who is being selected. It may be typical that in the mandate of the Court of Justice, which otherwise addresses the issue of who should become a judge, and how to recruit judges, the system and questions relating to children are not included. Undeclaredly enough, I allow myself to mention that there is at least one exception to this, namely the initiative taken by the Left Mons Espelid in 1983 through questions in the Questionnaire, which led to the fact that we now have equal numbers of men and women in each case before the courts. In addition, I guess I also mentioned that the age in order to become a homeworker was reduced to 18 years too soon. Leakers are important in relation to the individual case, but it also gives the permanent judges, the tradesmen, good contact with people's legal opinion more generally. The courts are the governmental authority, and we also have legal provisions on who can be elected to playwrights. As one condition, next to some others, it is called – I quote from Section 76 of the Law of the Court of Justice – that it 'shall be chosen only for people who, by virtue of their integrity, skill and independence, are considered to be particularly fit for the profession'. How, then, would a large number of people be found to satisfy these criteria? Well, it would be logical just to use the local government to carry out a mission for the state, the equal woman and man as opposed to the officials, to add the selection of such just to a democratically elected local body that could have knowledge of people. This does not mean that this is a political duty, that it is a political choice because it has been added to the local authorities. As citizens, we have a number of civic obligations. They are to let us choose the local government, the county council, and for that matter the local government. Then we are in a position of responsibility in relation to the party and the voters – the ones who have put us to election, and the ones who have elected us. The profession of judge is an independent position. They are officials, they are irrevocable, and it is often said that the judges are strictly speaking the real officials. They are responsible to the legal society they serve, in clear text to the law and other legally valid arguments. This must also be true of the children, whether they are jurors or co-judges in the courts of lords and cities or in the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of The wording of the insurance to be provided under Section 100 of the Law of the Court of Justice underlines this. It states that, in the context of the assurance given, the President of the Court of First Instance shall: "observe him the duties of a fellow judge, and accept his assurance that in this matter as well as in all future matters he will pay attention to all that is being negotiated in court, and that he will be judged as to the truest and most correct to be according to the law and the evidence of the matter." This means, therefore, that being a layman is not a political duty; it is a social authority that each individual is responsible to himself. If we look at what came out of today's appointment practice, we have 435 local authorities, and it's natural that the practice is different in the individual municipalities. What was the result of TV2's survey was probably the opposite, which is striking similarity: a very large number with local political background, over 70 pst. by the co-judgments, strikingly large numbers of rapporteurs and rapporteurs of the legallegislators. If we then look at the criteria to be able to choose, I can immediately say that of the many municipal councillors and list candidates I know, every one fills the criteria that are set and that I've quoted. But very many I know that have not had such positions, will also satisfy the requirements. The main problem with the result TV2 has found is not really the ones that have been picked out, but all of those that have been left out by having as one-sided as the recruitment basis people with party political backgrounds. There may be reason to ask questions about some of the reasons why this is so often viewed as political, that it has been decided to stick to proportional electoral arrangements, etc. and thus in a way lost the focus on the primary role of the social ombudsman for whom the individual becomes responsible in relation to himself. The media community we live in reinforces this problem, and it is unfortunate when the leader of a large party in Oslo comes into the situation that he is interviewed about his views as a layman, on the basis that he is responsible for his party and his party program. I therefore believe that at least there is a clear point that people who have such positions in the parties and in politics that they become particularly responsible in relation to their party programmes must at least not be involved as playwrights. At least then it is close to ending the need to exclude wholesalers, also because there is a distribution of power in it. Otherwise, we should be busy getting far more and recruiting far wider than what you've done in the way you've now done it. It may be useful to try to get e.g. organisations to make proposals, and perhaps faster replacements should be made. Then I'll go over to the second main question, the tipbook of the Women's Movement in the Workers' Party. In 1996, the Women's Movement of the Workers' Party published the Tipbook for Women's Jury Members in Criminal Matters. The foreword states that this becomes ‘therefore more a political document than a legal document’. It seems that the recipient group in the first row is women from the Workers' Party who are jury members and co-judges. The tip book has a legitimate purpose: to provide better information to children. Absence in this field has obviously been evident, and I would like to highlight a study conducted by two students at the Faculty of Law in Oslo, which has as an important finding that the toys lack information about the place of work. There is good reason for the Council of State to take a closer look at this issue. The second aim was to bring the courts to a more stringent judgment in certain specific cases. There are two good reasons why this paper should never have been published. The booklet encourages the reader to regard the judiciary as a political office. A responsibility is established for those who are co-judges and workers' party members, at least women, towards the Labour Party's policy. Secondly, one tries to influence the position of the judges. In an interview with TV2, the country’s leading judge, Supreme Justice Carsten Smith, also said that the booklet is ‘a clear violation of the courts’ and that it represented an ‘irregular influence’ – strong words from that team. It is incomprehensible that the booklet was made in 1996, but it is really unacceptable when the booklet is also defended after it was raised in principle against it, and I am eager to hear if the Workers' Party will stand behind the booklet in today's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e930	Ever since the Criminal Procedures Act of 1887, doctors have had a significant place in the criminal justice area, and today, laymen are involved as co- magistrates in the law of the city, the lord or the law of the law or in the law of the law of the law. The historical starting point for this scheme was in particular the requirement to be judged by their peers. The rules for the choice of laypersons are laid down in the Law of the Court of Justice. The election takes place every four years — after each municipal election — and is chosen for four years at a time. It's the local government that chooses the co-judgments and the team members. The Court Act contains a number of provisions on who can be elected as co- magistrates and law-enforcement members. The basic conditions are that one must be over 18 years old, economically qualified and elective in municipal elections. Some groups are excluded from selection, e.g. Councils of State. In addition, some groups have the right to request exemption from elections if they so wish. This applies, inter alia, to: those who are over 65 years of age. In addition, the Court Act contains an important rule that co-judges and law-enforcement members should be people who: "because of its integrity, competence and independence, it is considered particularly fit for the profession and which, because of its lack of knowledge of the Norwegian language or of other reasons, would not be difficult to fulfil the duties of the profession". This requires the municipality to make an assessment of each individual chosen. In a circular sent by the Ministry of Justice to the courts and municipalities prior to each election, the Ministry has stressed that the sample should be composed in such a way that they represent all social groups and different age groups. In addition, the Ministry has pointed out that it is important that the samples reflect the Norwegian population, and that this is why, among other things, it is important that the samples reflect the Norwegian population. persons with different ethnic backgrounds should be selected. No rules have been laid down for the choice itself, so that the local council must apply the general rules for similar elections made by the local council. In some Norwegian municipalities, practice has developed to a large extent to recruit the co-judgments from the local government’s own party ranks. This can be a practical way to solve the choice, including: due to the requirement to carry out a fitness assessment of the individual co-judgment. It's easier to suggest people you know and trust. The experience of my predecessors is that in practice such schemes have not been problematic. The courts feel that when politicians act as co-judges in court, they do not act as a tool for their political party, but as responsible people who use their common sense. And it's such qualities it's important that the co-judgments have. At the same time, I clearly see fundamental concerns about schemes that invite party-political divisions to form the basis for the proposals. Outwardly, it can be seen as an attempt to conduct party politics in the courts, and it is not reliable. The law does not call for political considerations to be taken into account in the elections, on the contrary. In previous circulars, in fact as early as 1959, the Ministry of Justice has expressly stated that it would be contrary to the law’s premise that political consideration should be given to the selection of the co-judgments and the members of the law. Before the summer, the Ministry of Justice will issue a circular to the courts and municipalities listing the rules and guidelines for the future choice of laypersons. I want to make it clear in this circular that it is unacceptable and contrary to the law's assumption that political considerations are decisive in the election of co-judges and law-enforcement members. It is the personal assumptions and characteristics of the candidates that underpin the choice of the municipality. At the same time, this does not mean that I believe that the law prevents the selection of co-judges who are members of political parties or who are otherwise politically active. On the contrary, I believe that people with political experience will often be responsible and upstanding people who meet the law's standards of fitness and who we need in the co-judgment committees. The interpellant asks me what can be done to prevent certain groups or parties from affecting laymen in a particular direction. I assume that the reason for this question is the attention that has recently been directed to the tipbook of the Women's Movement of the Workers' Party. In my opinion, this practice is clearly critical, and it must be seen as inappropriate to influence the decision of individual judges in individual cases. This does not imply the necessary trust in the independence and impartiality of the judges. I can't stop anyone from trying this. But fortunately, we have procedural rules that avert such an influence on both professionals and laymen. In its utmost consistency, this type of impact trial may lead to a familiarisation of co-judges or team members. As I said at the outset, the court law has clear rules on who is excluded from elections as a fellow judge or a member of the law. These rules were designed at a time when society looked quite different than it does today. I therefore see that there may be a need to go through these rules to assess the need to change them. Storing representatives are not excluded from elections under these rules. Nor may they claim exemption from any charge other than where they have a valid maturity in the individual case. It is likely that questions can be asked about whether the role of legislator is compatible with the role of co-judgment or a team member. The Ministry will therefore send, at the hearing, a proposal to exclude representatives from elections, together with a proposal that one should not be able to be elected a co-judgment or a member of the law if one is 70 years old. In the case of local politicians, it is hardly appropriate to propose that these should be excluded. In general, these are responsible, socially involved people, and we need them in the co-judgment and teamwork committees. And I believe that they are able to pay tribute to party politics when they do their judgmental business. Finally, I would like to say that the Ministry of Justice is considering an overall review of the rules for the choice of laypeople, both in order to simplify today's to some extent complex legislation and to assess the size and composition of the samples. This is a comprehensive work that we will try to implement so that any legislative changes are in place in good time before the municipal and county elections in 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e971	It is quite clear from the Council of State's response to the statement I made, that I have good reason to be satisfied with it in the first place. It is very good that it will be emphasised that political considerations should not be the basis for the appointment and choice of laypeople, while – and I would like to stress my agreement – that having a political background so definitely should not be a reason for not being able to be chosen for homework. But there might be reason to encourage local government to look at those who have the most central offices. There is certainly every reason to ask questions about how wise it is for sitting rapporteurs to be elected as laymen and jury members, and that they may become laymen if they have previously entered the polls. I think the thing that sometimes is a little bit of the point is that people get to work from period to period. Once you're on the list, you kind of don't get out of it until you may have reached an age that you should feel like you're pulling out or getting removed from the list. In fact, it can also lead to some poor rolling. And once you've had an appointment practice, it kind of hangs again for a very long time. I would say that sitting rapporteurs should not be elected, but I am not at all a stranger to the fact that former rapporteurs can be excellent people to choose, provided that they end up as rapporteurs so early that they are not perceived as too old. Furthermore, I am very pleased with the clear position of the Council of State regarding the tip book that I also mentioned in my article. I agree with the Council of State that there may not be as much to do in relation to that type of business, other than to give clear notice that it is not appropriate. But there may also be a point that the type of activity, if it became common, will actually reinforce any need not to have a political background to be selected. The Association of Lawyers has taken the initiative to carry out a wider review of the stage of learning. As I mentioned, there are also two law students at the University of Oslo who conducted a study on a broader scale in the case of laymen. I would like to encourage the Council of State to go a little bit wider into these questions than that both the interpellation and the answer provided directly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e984	I would like to inform you that I have examined whether the sitting court commission should look at this issue, but I have come to the conclusion that it will not be appropriate, they have already received an additional mandate. But I have said in my reply that I will ensure that there is a broad review of the question of laypeople in addition to the two concrete amendments that I said I would send out to the hearing already in ours. I have the belief, in a democracy, that a public debate in itself is a good one in a matter like this, because the public debate is the searchlight we all need in order to be able to show it that is right and wrong, that which is false and true, that which is true and false. And in that search light, we're quick, in the sense that what's standing up, it's standing up, and what's not standing up, it's not. So that's why I'm not going to try to add more comments to political activity, except to say that the influence of the court is at risk as a result of achieving instability, and I guess that wasn't the purpose of the case that more people have been looking for. That is why I am also sure that the distinction between what is normal information in a democracy and what can be seen as a clear, improper influence. I simply perceive it as a result of the normal open debate, and there is no reason to dwell more on it. At the same time, it is the way – as the representative was concerned about – that there are several aspects that you should dwell on, and I would like to mention one of them. One of them is, for example, age composition. I have been in a former role in life – long before I became the Council of State and the Grandfather – sitting as a fellow judge and discovering that I was among the youngest. Then I was 50 years old, and the person we were to judge was 22 years old. I think the jury around me should have had a slightly more nuanced composition age-wise. I can confirm that the sexual representation was consistent with what was previously mentioned. But I wondered about the matter and later I brought it with me, because it is clear that there are distortions here, and you can of course include that when working with this locally. I'm going to end by saying that when I had to do this in my own time as a local elected official in Oslo, I saw it as a solemn act. I just went around and found a representative sample. And I found out that people thought it was very solemn and important to be asked, and they viewed it as a great honor and honor. I guess that normal practice can be carried out by anyone in the Kingdom, and I strongly encourage you to use the common sense in recruiting fellow judges.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e995	In the text of the interview, the representative Harald Hove says that TV2 has revealed that ‘very many of the lessons have been recruited’ from the political parties. That the common man and woman were surprised, could then be. But the fact that this should be so surprising to many from within the system, there are people from the political environment or people within the judiciary and the legal system, is in itself surprising, as long as one knows that the political parties around the country's municipalities have for many years been assigned the task of finding candidates before final appointment takes place by the local authorities. With this in mind, it should not be surprising that many who are today playwrights have the background of a political party. The central questions are now about today's system of appointment and reappointment every four years of laymen for the rights of the city, the lord and the team, and whether one today has too narrow recruitment to these important jobs and therefore needs to have a greater width in terms of the background of the toys. These are the most relevant questions for which we wish a thorough assessment by the Workers' Party, cf. the proposal that has been distributed here today. It seems obvious that grubbing-up representatives as legislators must be excluded from these positions. In a review, one must also decide whether previous depositors and alternates of the Storting should be able to hold such positions. One must also be able to do the same in the case of political advisors and state secretaries. In the case of local politicians and state politicians, they are not legislators. Therefore, in my opinion, these duties and the Workers' Party cannot in themselves be disqualifying in relation to performing a task as a layman. If a person were to be excluded against assumption on this basis, at least one would not do the work of getting people to engage in local politics more easily. In the wake of the heated debate earlier this year on these issues, a case for Gulating Lawyers' Rights in the final jury selection asked questions about political affiliation. Now I don't know this specific matter, but if it wasn't a matter where the relationship to political parties and attitudes was relevant, in my view, this is totally unacceptable. The crucial question in this context must be stability or instability in relation to the case in question. With regard to the suggestion by the representative Hoves that a political party has attributed ‘sine’, I consider the matter to be debated and completely irrelevant in relation to today’s topic. There it has been explained up and down what was really the background to this booklet – it has been made completely several times in the past. I bring this up with the proposals of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e1014	Jan Petter Rasmussen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e1017	For many years I have been concerned about the selection of fellow judges. It's called so nice that you have to be judged by their equivalents. This is not the case when politicians who are not representative of the attitudes of the population towards punishment are judging. It is, as we know, just the Progress Party that really wants strict punishment measurements. A poll before Christmas showed that 54 pst. of the population was most in agreement with the Criminal Policy of the Advance Party. ==References== 1 pst. was most in agreement with Tor Nymo and the Center Party, and I think the opening up of the Left in this measurement was barely measurable. So when the co-judgments are picked out of a sample put together politically, that means that only 10 pst. of the co-judgments represent the position of the Progress Party, which is representative of the 54 pst. by the population. The actual relationship with this selection is, therefore, that the vast majority of criminals in Norway are judged by co-judges who have politically liberal attitudes to punishment, and not by co-judges who have representative positions for the Norwegian population, who are sufficiently independent and independent. That's why I'm very excited that the representative Harald Hove of the Left now raises this issue and wants to get a change, so that the co-judgment becomes more representative of the population. One solution may, of course, be that the sample is the whole population — all Norwegian citizens. It'll be the most representative sample. Then you can pull out more than you need in each case, and shoot out people who may be the least fit in each case. But it's just one possible thought. The only reasonable solution here is to let the court committee that is now working assess the whole issue. That's the answer I had been waiting for from the Council of State. I would therefore like to ask whether the Council of State will ask the Court of Justice to consider the questions raised in this interview. Furthermore, I would now like to announce that the Progress Party is prepared to vote in favour of the proposal by Mr Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e1030	It is an important matter that the interpellant has raised. It is a health sign of our democracy that as important functions as laymen are brought up for debate. I'll think you'll need it at regular intervals, no matter what we have to get to today. I think the question of the laymen's background from a political party is one thing. Whether the children are a member of a local government is something else. When it comes to being a member of a political party, I see it as still the most legal thing in Norway. By using this formulation, I believe that it cannot and should not address anyone regarding the question of being expelled for homework. Any thought that you should ask about party membership in that selection process is completely unmistakable – I assume it is for everyone. In the case of members of a local government, the party membership is revealed, and this is the case to a certain extent. With the knowledge that at least I have of municipal government representatives from a small municipality, they are largely selected according to the very criteria that I assume are in the intentions to select laypeople. But it's people who, for different reasons, are equally useful, don't want to be on a party list. I think the call that the Council of State has made through its statement almost completely covers my view, precisely that the local government that chooses is aware that there may also be useful people who, for some reason, will not be exposed to a party list. Much of the background for this matter is what the representative Rasmussen calls an output from a particular party. I think it's okay to name that party, there's only one party that can behave that way, and that's the Norwegian Labour Party. I completely disagree that it is irrelevant to take this with me today. The recommendation booklet from the Workers' Party and the questions asked are of the utmost relevance. Although the Labour Party believes that the matter has been debated, I would have liked the Workers' Party's representatives to state in plain text from the Stockholm Chair that they are not satisfied with the way this matter was handled in this so-called party. I also hope that the Council of State will be able to clarify whether it is possible to bring this matter into the courthouse, or to clarify what other reason he might otherwise have for not being able to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e1041	We thought that this matter was now finished and debated, and we could not see that, in relation to the reason for this paper, it would be necessary to go further into this now. I am very surprised at the kind of vocabulary and the strong words some of the representatives who have spoken here have used. Therefore, I would just like to briefly point out some factual errors that have arisen in this discussion. It may seem that the recordings are based on a lack of knowledge of what the booklet really is. It says in the interpellation text that a political organization has attributed to the laymen they perceive as theirs. This is all wrong. No such assignment or list of addresses has ever taken place. The paper has been distributed since the autumn of 1996 at internal meetings and conferences of the Women's Movement in the Workers' Party and has been sent to some of the organisational groups in the Women's Movement. The interpellant further stated that the second purpose of the paper was to bring the courts to a more stringent judgment. No, in fact, there has never been any purpose of the paper to get the courts to judge more stringently. On the contrary, there was an information booklet on what is happening in a court case, and how you can be heard as a layman or a jury member. The purpose of the booklet was to give women self-confidence enough to prejudice their own opinion, and nothing else. If the fact that more women have confidence, basis and information enough to prejudice their own opinion leads to more severe punishments in some violent and violent cases, then we think it's totally okay. It's completely in line with the large number, including the left, several times has underlined. I am very pleased that more people, not least the Council of State, see that there is a great need for information to people who have been designated as teachers, and I hope that the Council of State will help those who need it to get their information needs met. We have received many enquiries from people who feel overwhelmed and lost in the system, who feel that they are not getting their opinion and are not being given sufficient consideration. That's what we wanted to do. At the same time, it is clear that the Workers' Party is using the channels and the possibilities we have to say what we think about criminal measures in the various criminal areas, as all other parties on the Stortinget are doing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e1055	I just want to say that I can agree with what the interpellant has said here, and what the Minister of Justice has said and said in this debate today. I think it is very important, as all the speakers today have focused on, that we should not have party political decisions in court, and that we should therefore not necessarily have the same procedure in the future as regards the appointment of laymen. Here it is important that we take care of the aspect that it has been focused on today. And since the Council of State has stated that this has been taken into account, the proposal of the Workers' Party is really unnecessary. But since there is now a proposal, we do not see any reason to vote against it. There is no reason to disagree with the content, but it would not have been necessary to present a proposal today. I would also like to comment very briefly on what goes on in the Tömrås itself describes as guidance. That's probably what was meant by the tip book of the Workers' Party, I don't have any reason to doubt it at all. We are many who are not satisfied with the fact that matters of the kind to which it has been particularly focused in this regard are so small in the legal system – both in the case of investigations, in the case of legal proceedings and in the case of judgement. But, as has been pointed out, the path to this does not go through an influence that can instill on the laymen. And when people who have a bearing on what will be inhabilitating, express it, I also think, as it has been pointed out by others from this pulpit today, that representatives from the Workers' Party might have admitted that it was unfortunate that the guidance was given the form it was given. This is not a big deal. But I think it's important to stress that anything that can be inhabilitating is unfortunate. What may seem informative and guiding is beneficial for those who are going to participate in processes, and I have the confidence in the Council of State that, as he has expressed here, you will add up in a good and fruitful way in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e1066	I will first be allowed to thank for the debate and what I see as a relatively clear connection to the main features of what was the intention behind the interpellation and my contribution at the beginning. However, I would like to make a few comments. The representative Rasmussen said that if you had knowledge of the system, you should not be surprised at the numbers TV2 found in your study. I feel like I'm not completely familiar with the system from multiple angles of incidence. I agree with Mr Rasmussen's representative that there was no reason to be surprised that there were many who had their background from lists in political elections. But that it was so comprehensive, and especially that there were so many rapporteurs in the jury committee, was actually a surprise to me. So I get to say that at least there was a clear reinforcement of something that I probably was initially aware of and in and of also something concerned about. To the agreement of the representative Jan Simonsen that the grounds for appointment should provide a higher level of punishment. Well, it's possible that that's going to be the result. And if that's the result, it's okay, I don't have the strong perceptions of the level of punishment in the individual cases. Some of my points in many contexts are precisely that it is the specific court that is going to judge the specific case, which is supposed to have an opinion on it in the first place. However, what is continuous — and of course it may have to do with the basis of appointment — is that, insofar as laymen disagree with professionals in terms of punishment, it actually goes quite consistently in the direction of wanting to reduce penalties. And it's made me feel a little strange sometimes in this room to feel that you're talking about a general legal awareness that was going to go towards more severe punishment than the courts are doing. It is in so far as the toys people say before they meet the specific case and are confronted with the specific case and the situation. But then it's just that there was something different in this case than what they thought was the usual, and then they discover what the professionals know, that's the unusual thing that's the usual. It might be a good and a compliment to the lessonrs that you're just able to take a different view of the specific matter than you have in many ways. With regard to the proposal by Mr Rasmussen, I find it difficult to see that it may be necessary to maintain it and that it could not be transmitted. The court committee is probably a little lucky recipient. They are, as I have perceived it, simply in the process of finishing their work. In the end, the representative Tömerås is going to find out that some of us are reading things differently from what she wants. The question as to whether it is in accordance with what was meant or not should be a different matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e1079	I was asked by some representatives whether the court committee should look at the question of laymen. I get to repeat what I said in my main post, namely that I have discussed that issue with the court committee and have come to the conclusion that it is not the ones that will now be the right to look at this. But because the question was timely, namely, how to choose a layman, as I also said in my post, I have already taken the initiative that we should send out at the hearing proposals in ours to exclude guttering representatives from the jobs this is about, and also proposals to introduce an age limit of 70 years. In addition, I have said that we are going to send out a circular that will be tightening up in relation to the choices to be made soon with a view to strengthening representativeness, and I have said that we are going to have a broad review of the complexity of the rules – because they are complex – with a view to having this reviewed and processed so that it is well available and evaluated before anyone is selected in 2003. So that work is going on. I also underlined in my contribution that it is as citizens we jointly govern democracy, it is as citizens we become party members, and it is as citizens we become fellow judges. It's not like party members we become co-judges, even if we can do everything else that's there, and it's often not a coincidence either. But when I express it so in principle, it's because you have to be something in principle, and the principle is that the parties are a practical tool that has got a heavy place in our way of ruling. But it's the citizens who initially decided to form parties. The parties have different opinions, but it is the citizens – not the party members – who are recruited into the court committees, into the court committees, etc. When I find reason to do such a principal summary, it's because it's this that's the principal idea behind the arrangement that we're talking about here and that's been maintained for many, many years. As many people have experienced, there has been a debate as to whether or not you should have the system at all, and now the search has been made for these samples. Finally, let me just establish what is a very clear basic principle in our country, that the courts are independent, the prosecution authority is independent – and that is what it must be. And that sense of role I sometimes think it's very good that we're all reminded of, no matter what place, rank or position we should now have, whether we're Norwegian citizens, depositors, playwrights or Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e1088	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Recommendation, see next column]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e1101	Then we're ready for voting. Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e1109	During the debate, Mr Løvik put forward two proposals on behalf of the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Grand Government is reviewing the law and regulation of the basic school, with a view to facilitating that the individual school and the individual teacher, within the framework of nationally agreed objectives for teaching, can have great freedom in choosing the method and practical design of teaching.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Grand Government is proposing greater financial, administrative and organisational freedom for the individual school.’ Mr Løvik has asked for the floor to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e1124	The debate has shown that there is a great deal of agreement on both intentions and direction in the proposals. I therefore see no reason to stick to the proposals. I'll draw them, and we'll follow things up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e1129	There is no voting theme in case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e1135	During the debate, Mr Hedstrøm has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit the necessary proposals so that Norwegian citizenship is first granted to foreign nationals who have renounced their original citizenship.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e1156	During the debate, Mr Rasmussen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to review current practices in the selection of urban, county and law-enforcement courts, including to propose amendments to the court law with a view to excluding glaring representatives from being elected as law-enforcement members, co- magistrates and judges.’ Mr Hernæs has asked for the floor to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e1164	In the course of the debate, the Council of State has, on all essential points, met the intention of the proposal, so I would urge the Workers' Party to turn the proposal into a transmission proposal. If the Labour Party were not to do so, this is a proposal which, of course, there is no reason whatsoever to vote against. I would nevertheless add that we regard it as a purely institutional matter. So if the Labour Party prefers it, I think a total increase will support the proposal – with the additions made on the occasion of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e1171	Several have not asked for the floor for an explanation of vote, and the President understands that the proposal is being maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13.ana.ud2144e1185	There is no record.
