ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e63	The representatives of Liv Marit Moland, Sverre Myrli, Terje Johansen, Harald Hove, Helene Falch Fladmark, Jan Johnsen, Unn Aarrestad and Kjellaug Nakkim, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: André Kukkestad For Buskerud County: Frank Willy Larsen For Finnmark County: Kirsti Saxi For Hedmark County: Erling Brandsnes For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Dagfinn Ripnes For the counties of Troms: Arne Bergland For the Vestfold counties: Harald Solberg Five permit applications are available: from the representative of Gunnar Schaug on leave of 10 and 11 March in order to attend a seminar chaired by the North Atlantic Assembly, in Bulgaria by the representative of Steinar Bastesen on leave of 16 and 17 March in order to attend, after invitation, a conference of the Norwegian Chamber of Commerce in Bangkok in Thailand by the representative Fridtjof Frank Gundersen on leave from 16 March to 18 March in order to take part in meetings of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Western European Union in Paris and Brussels by the Workers' Party Group on the leave of the representative Hill-Marta Solberg from 16 March to 19 March in order to take part in a study trip to England by Lars Gunnar Lie on leave from 16 March to 19 March in order to take part in a conference at Wilton Park in Steening, England. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For Akershus County: André KukkestadFor Nordland County: Bears Olsen and Arvid FalchFor Sogn and Fjordane County: Gunn SteinhovdenFor Østfold County: Morten Olsen
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e183	Morten Olsen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e191	The representative, Jan Simonsen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e194	On behalf of the great representative, Kristin Krohn Devold and myself, I put forward a proposal for additional appropriations for the 1999 police budget to maintain the unaltered operating budget in the police districts.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e199	The representative Mr Børge Brende will also make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e202	On behalf of the representative Per-Kristian Foss and myself, I am promoting a proposal for the introduction of binding prior commitments in tax matters.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e207	The proposals put forward will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e224	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Valverd Reply City Haugland Foreign Minister Knut Vollebæk State Council Ragnhild Queseth Haarstad State Council Eldbjørg Løwer Furthermore, Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik has asked to provide additional information related to two of the main questions he answered in the oral questioning procedure a week ago. The President will propose that we start the oral question procedure by giving the Prime Minister the floor first, and that those who took part in the Questionnaire on this subject a week ago be given the opportunity to ask additional questions. Afterwards, the oral Questionnaire will continue as usual, and the whole process will be terminated within one hour. The President notes that the Prime Minister does not participate in the further part of the Questionnaire. On this basis, the President requests the consent of the Storting to derogate from the provision of the oral question procedure in the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 53 paragraph. 2, so that the outlined arrangements can be carried out. – This is deemed to be adopted. The members of the government advertised are present. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e252	In the previous spontaneous Question Time, as the President referred to it, I was asked more questions about the EU drug monitoring centre. I have registered through the media the desire for supplementary information. I'd like to, because I always want to give the Storting as good information as possible. The European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction is an independent EU institution on the basis of Article 235 of the Treaty on European Union. The Centre’s task is to collect, analyse and disseminate information on drugs and drug policy issues, thereby enabling Member States’ politicians, professionals and others to better design effective responses to the drug problem. Norwegian professional authorities consider participation in the Centre to be useful. The rise of Norwegian cooperation came in January 1994, when the then Social Minister Grete Knudsen wrote to EU Commissioner Flynn. In the same year, Norway was invited to participate as an observer in the Centre’s Board of Directors during its meeting in November. The result of the referendum later in the same month resulted in the EU not allowing Norway to maintain its observer status. The Statutes of the Centre also provide for participation by non-EU countries. With reference to these, then Minister of Social Affairs Hill-Marta Solberg wrote to the Chairman of the Centre in April 1995 and asked the Management Board to assess Norwegian participation. The Management Board of the Centre entrusted the Director with the task of assessing whether Norway is eligible for participation. In this context, the Director made two visits in 1996 to Norway. Before the last of these, a letter was sent from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health to the Director of the Centre on 29 May 1996. Here it is clear that from the Norwegian side it was desirable that the discussions should be based on Norwegian participation under the EEA Agreement. During the meeting held in the Department on 3 and 4 June of the same year, the Director agreed to this, but had to deal with the Centre’s Board of Directors and the European Commission. The Director expressed that view to the EC Commission in a letter of 18 November 1996. This shows that an EEA solution was also created on the basis of the then government. In a letter dated 30 September 1996, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health was briefed on the Governing Board decisions of the Centre, which mandated the Director to initiate formal negotiations with Norway for participation either on the basis of Articles 235 and 228 of the Treaty on Union or on the basis of the EEA Agreement, depending on the assessment of the European Commission. At the same time, Norway was invited to participate in its activities pending a final agreement. On 5 November 1997, shortly after my government joined, the first meeting of the European Commission on Norwegian participation was held. From the Norwegian side, it was again stated that it was primarily desirable to reach an agreement within the EEA framework, as the Director of the Centre had also stated. The European Commission initially rejected this. In February 1998, the Commission stated that the main reason for this was that Norway appeared to be on the EFTA side alone with a desire for links with the Centre. On this basis, Iceland was contacted with a view to identifying any Icelandic interest in participation on the basis of the EEA Agreement. The issue was raised in the EFTA and Iceland several times during 1998. It took significantly longer than provided for a clarification of Iceland's position. Only in December 1998 did there exist sufficient grounds to review the case with the Commission, based on an EEA solution for both Norway and Iceland. On 26 January this year, a new meeting was held with the European Commission, which again rejected an EEA solution, this time also in the form of a subsequent so-called non-paper, which only became known to me after I had been in the spontaneous Question Time last Wednesday. One main reason for Norway’s involvement in the EEA track is that this would best ensure Norwegian rights as an observer in its activities. This would confer rights of participation in addition to those set out in the draft bilateral agreement submitted by the Commission. In addition, the amount of the financial contribution would then be lower than that previously foreseen from the EU side. This is why the Government has kept on the EEA track. Once, after clarification with Iceland, we have received a written notification, as informally as in a non-paper, that participation within the EEA Agreement is not relevant, the Government is set to negotiate on a different basis, in the form of a third-country agreement. I also announced this position in my responses to Jan Petersen and Haakon Blankenborg in the spontaneous questioning session. The outcome of the negotiations must of course be assessed in the usual manner. Until our future situation is clarified, Norway can continue its practical cooperation with the Centre. Other, including: Representatives who raised the matter here in Stortinget last Wednesday spoke about full Norwegian membership of the Centre. It may seem misleading. Article 13 of the Centre’s Regulation provides for participation in the Centre for Non-EU Countries on the basis of agreements concluded between the Parties. For institutional reasons, the EU has never accepted the status of third countries as members of the Community institutions or institutions established by the Community. We have also met with this in the Schengen context. It has always been formally provided that Norway should have observer status with speaking rights, in the same way as other participating third countries. The Commission’s draft agreement therefore also refers to Norway’s participation as an observer. In addition to holding two meetings with the European Commission, Norway has continued to be an observer in the Centre’s Board of Directors, its Scientific Committee and in the National Contact Body Network. In addition, since 1998, Norway has been part of an expert group to produce comparable estimates of drug use in EU countries and Norway. The goal is to get a report during the year. So the government hasn't put the case away, as someone claimed in the previous spontaneous question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e286	Thorbjørn Jagland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e289	The starting point was that no one claimed it, it was that Social Minister Meltveit Kleppa had said to Bergen's magazine that the government had lowered the matter, which was contrary to Stortinget's position. This was also not explained in the Foreign Minister's Europe statement. The Prime Minister responded spontaneously that it was not the case that the case was depleted but was due to the EU. He said that the European Union has not clarified its vision and that we are waiting for answers. This seems to be contrary to actual circumstances. James Howat Russel, a member of the European Commission, said yesterday to the Official Journal of Bergen that it was already announced in November 1997 and again in January-February 1998 that an EEA framework was not possible. It therefore seems that the Prime Minister did not provide correct information when he was here in the spontaneous questioning session, and it is still unclear what the Government has done. Howat Russel also says that it is the EU that has always taken the initiative to get clarifications and meetings, so I ask the Prime Minister to deal with what James Howat Russel said to Bergen's Official Journal yesterday, whether this is correct information.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e298	The answer to this was to be found in my statement. A main justification from the EU for not accepting a solution within the EEA Agreement was in the past that Norway was the only EFTA country that had expressed the wish for an association with the Centre. That is why Norway, as I said in my presentation now, took this up in the EFTA community, and in particular with Iceland to investigate this country's interest. The clarification in relation to Iceland did not come until the end of 1998, i.e. a short time ago. On that basis, a new meeting of the Commission took place in January, and we have recently received the reaction of the European Commission, rather informally in the form of a so-called ‘non-paper’. That is what we are now dealing with, and on that basis I have said that we will have to take note of that and enter into negotiations on a different basis, namely a third country agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e307	Haakon Blankenburg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e310	I have never doubted that the Prime Minister has been interested in as close cooperation with the EU as possible. But that's not the problem here. The problem is that in the previous Question Time it was said that there was a waiting for EU clarification in relation to the EEA. Now it is clear that Norway and the EFTA side are delaying this. It was not the EU, because the EU had clarified its views in different ways, at least from November 1997, just after the change of government, and until today, so that side of the matter seems to be fully open. The responsibility was on the Norwegian side and on the part of the Government, perhaps also on the part of another EFTA Government. Moreover, we have been appointed by the Minister of Social Affairs to say that this was not a matter of priority. No comment has been made so far. I would like to have a comment from the Prime Minister on that very point. When the Prime Minister now says that he will start fresh with a view to maximum participation, we are naturally pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e321	I do not agree that Norway delayed this, because the EU used as an argument that other EFTA countries were not interested. Then we had to check whether other EFTA countries were interested. What's sad is that it took so long to clarify it, especially in relation to Iceland. But that was decided at the end of 1998, and after that there was a quick meeting. The Government has decided to follow closely the consequences of that meeting, namely that the EEA Agreement is still not up to date. I regret that the EEA Agreement is not up to date, and I believe that the Workers' Party will recognise that. This would be better for Norway in terms of both institutional solutions, meeting attendance and financial contributions. I guess that's why the Labour Party government worked for it. I must also say about the accusation of delay, that two working party governments have been involved in this matter for three and a half years. So we've been going on for barely a year and a half – so the individual will have to assess this. But we're interested in coming up with and working on it. As far as the opinion of the State Council of Meltway Kleppa is concerned, can I not comment on it? [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e338	I'm afraid the time has run out.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e341	I'll take it in the answer to Jan Petersen, even if he doesn't ask for it. Or maybe he does?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e346	That's what time will show. Jan Petersen – the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e351	Then one of my questions is already asked. Since the Prime Minister last week very far on the road indicated that the State Council of Meltveit Kleppa had been misquoted in the Official Journal of Bergen, I simply ask: will the Prime Minister really maintain this after the conversation has been written out in full to the public? When the Prime Minister said in the previous spontaneous interview that everyone has agreed on the EEA track all the time, what emphasis does he place on the following, as stated in the drug report, St.meld. No 16 for 1996-97: ‘... accession negotiations will begin in 1997.’ When we spoke so early about membership, how can the Prime Minister maintain that everyone has agreed on the EEA track until today? However, I hope that the outcome of this round will be that the government will put full pressure on this work, because Norwegian drug policy will greatly enjoy working together in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e365	As I said in my first answer, the term'membership' in this context is misleading. It was also true, even though it was in a wholesale communication prepared by a workers’ party government, because third countries cannot become full members of this centre. When also Jan Petersen used it last Wednesday, it was actually misleading. The Centre Regulation talks about participation on the basis of an agreement. And that's my opinion – and it was also the views of the workers' party governments – that getting this done within the EEA Agreement is actually better for Norway than what we are now at risk. Then we could participate more in meetings and actually pay less. Now we probably have to pay more and participate less in meetings. But we must now fight for a third-country agreement that will be as good as possible. In the case of the State Council of Meltveit Kleppa, she responded to a question from the journalist who asked if it was such that the discussions and work on this membership were stopped. And then she said, "I probably told the government that this matter should not be given high priority" at the same time we entered the department. [[The President clubs.]] She acknowledged that she has expressed herself unclearly on this point, but it has certainly also been done by some representatives who have talked about membership. But we...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e372	This means that speaking time is over, and we move on to the first main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e375	I have the following questions for the Minister of Labour and Administration: The forecasts for developments in the Norwegian labour market show that there is reason to take the signals that an increasing unemployment rate is on the rise, very seriously. Also in the South, we see increasing problems in some larger companies. Over the past few days newspapers and media in the region have been dominated by the gloomy views of some farms in the Agder counties, such as Bredero Price in West Agder, Norton in East Agder and the A-CMI car industry in West Agder. Several hundred employees of these enterprises are afraid of their jobs if this leads to redundancies. My question to the Council of State is: Is the Council of State aware of and will she be following the problems facing these companies and the labour market in this part of the country? The government will take this which is now happening, seriously, and see what you can do with, among other things. the Norwegian tax provisions, the cumbersome environmental requirements and the rigid labour regulations that hinder businesses? [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e384	The President shall ask the representatives to remain within the allocated speaking time. The President will also ask for a little more peace in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e387	I want to assure the representative that we are following this development very closely. We will, as we have said to the Storting on several occasions, come back to Stortingen at the time it is necessary, to possibly look at the level of action. The representative also mentions other business framework conditions. The most important improvement in the framework conditions for business, as we see it, is that interest rates go down. It's moving in a positive direction now. In addition, we have met with the oil industry and the engineering industry to look in particular at the signals coming from these areas. They have also made a number of demands and demands for a change in the framework conditions at the Council of State. We will look at this up until the presentation of the revised national budget and see whether changes can be made to the framework conditions that will make sense in that context. So my answer to the representative is that we have this under full observation, and that we will come back to Stortinget when it's time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e396	It's very expensive to hire people. The provisions of the Working Environment Act are strict. The rental and distribution of labour is in an almost public monopoly situation, while the public taxes on each job more than is done in most other countries. All of this has contributed to the lack of appropriate framework conditions for both industry and the labour market. If you don't do anything about these problems, we'll see that what's now going on in larger companies, among other things. in the South, just a beginning of a decline that Norwegian industry will be able to feel even more burdensome in the future. Does the Government have the necessary understanding and understanding of the complexity of what is now happening in terms of both the framework conditions for industry and the establishment of a Norwegian labour market policy, in order to stop or limit the negative developments we know are about to take place here?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e403	The representative took up much of what is budgeting for business. Of course, we also have opportunities to improve, and we have a discussion on this in the beginning of next year's budget. If it's possible to do something this year, let's see if it can fit in. In terms of labour market conditions – the representative mentioned unemployment, but I expect that he might also be thinking about employment services – I have followed up on the position of the Blaalid Committee in preparation for the Government. That matter has been promised by the Government that it will present it to the Storting during the spring session, and we will keep that. The Stortinget will then be able to have a discussion about the functioning of the labour market, and in case there is something that is not reasonable, we have the opportunity to correct it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e411	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e414	That, in order to improve the competitiveness of the labour market, and therefore the enterprises, I believe, is a major investment in education and training. But in addition to that, last week's Business Week reported that the black economy has increased by 100 percent, and they estimate that 130 million. tax is exempt. It is also a heavy burden on serious work and a serious business. The Minister of Labour and Administration sees the fight against undeclared work as a much more important part of the fight to improve the conditions of competition for serious employment than for example: attacks on professional rights?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e421	I do not know what the representative meant by attacking professional rights. Clearly, the future reform of education and skills is crucial if we are to use the labour we have in this country in a sensible way. We will come back to that when we discuss the reform of skills and payroll. I am absolutely sure that much of the change in skills needs we have today is not solved through labour market training, but actually through retraining. So there we also have to take a force roof. As far as the black economy is concerned, it is clear to everyone that a dimension such as that suggested in the Week of Economics, and only half of it, is a giant dimension and a threat to what else should go to our Community solutions. We might be able to do something about that if we strengthen the Tax Directorate's ability to address that problem.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e428	There will be follow-up questions - Signe Eye.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e431	It becomes a bit strange when the Progress Party comes and asks for more funds for labour market measures and other measures, a party that has helped the Government to cut further into the labour market measures for this year. I hear what the Council of State answers, she says she follows very closely. It's not just in the Agder counties there are constant job closures, very many are now unemployed and have no job to go to. Nevertheless, the Government does not come with measures. The Council of State says that they will come back when appropriate. We know that there are now 60,000 unemployed, and that there are only 7 000 who are given the opportunity to take action this year. The other 50 000 are going to be fine. It's like the record. Then I have to ask the Council of State: is it certain that the Council of State will bring new measures into the revised national budget? [[There's a lot of conversation going on in the rotunda]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e440	The President will request that the representatives in the Roundundunda organise their conference either at other times or elsewhere, thereby contributing to peace in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e443	I have, until now, registered all notices of leave and notices of leave notifications and cancellations that come. The figures so far do not give us any direct reason to increase the level of intervention. We are aware that some people believe that the level of action should be higher than it is, but if some of these permits and, if so, the redundancies result in a change in the number of unemployed, we will return to Stortinget. We've said that many times. – I start to sound like my own reprise, but I have no other answer than that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e448	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e451	I will ask a question to the Council of State Ragnhild Queseth Haarstad. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has now distributed 50 million. SEK in extra discretionary grants to 150 municipalities with unadulterated and few schools. The extra funds have gone as an increase in the framework grant to the municipalities, and I am in doubt that the money will be used as intended, when they are not earmarked. My experience is that they don't meet where they're going to meet, that's to maintain the primary schools. My question to the Council of State is: Why does the Council of State not want to earmark these extra discretionary means so that they can take the right and not be added to the framework grant, so that the municipalities can use them for anything other than to maintain the schools?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e458	The size granted 50 million. extra in discretionary grants to be channelled to municipalities that had a particularly difficult financial situation, where they had a structure on the school system which made it difficult to maintain the primary schools. In addition, particular account was to be taken of the municipalities that had problems due to the conversion of the tax system by making the corporate tax state-owned. They were also to be catered for in particular. What we've done from the department is to distribute the funds to the different statesmen after we've got the countymen's assessment of which municipalities had these special problems. The community has thus distributed the funds according to their knowledge of the situation in the individual municipalities, and not least their knowledge of the finances of each municipality. I expect the municipalities that get these extra discretions, actually spend the money for what they're supposed to do.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e465	The council doesn't want to hear what I'm asking! When I ask why she doesn't label the funds, she says that she hopes the municipalities use them to maintain the branch schools. I think the Council of State is trying to ride two horses at the same time: she's trying out district policy and municipal freedom, and she's trying to centralize beauty and school policy – and this isn't going to work. My question is: what should the Council of State do if cross-border schools are closed in municipalities that have received a discretionary grant?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e471	I have to remind you that it is the Stortinge that adopts the budget. The size has not decided that these 50 million. kr was to be earmarked for primary schools. The majority decided that 50 million. kr was to be used as a discretionary grant to the municipalities that needed it, which had additional financial problems, and municipalities that had problems due to the State making of the corporate tax. It is based on the knowledge that each county has about the municipalities in the county, the money is distributed. So I have to remind you that it is the Storting that decides whether the money should be earmarked or be beauty. The government has decided on discretion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e476	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e479	My question goes to the Minister of Labour and Administration. At the time of accession of the Government, the Government promised to look at the functioning of the labour market, in particular the provisions on renting and brokering, which are rigorous in Norway. Increased searchlights have now been put on this because competition conditions between Norway and the rest of the world have become more focussed on the basis of, inter alia, the open and free economy. I register that we will no longer clarify what the government thinks, than that it will notify a big message about the Blaalid selection in ours, so I will leave it. But there's another piece of this where the state council can at least determine whether the government has one or more visions. The government has warned to reduce a sample to look at the overtime provisions. In this sample, employee organisations have refused to sit, and the central party representative Morten Lund, this week’s Newspaper, says that he ‘is very pleased that LO refuses to participate in the Government Committee to assess the increase in overtime use’. What is the Council of State's view of this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e490	Work environment legislation is lower than the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, so if permitted, she is the right one to respond to it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e495	With the greatest joy, President.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e500	Then we leave the word to Councillor Ragnhild Queseth Haarstad.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e503	I understand that the representative Foss has some problems knowing which issues are in which department, but I'm going to answer the question. It is true that we invited all the employees’ and employers’ organisations to participate in a sample that would look at overtime for one and four weeks. This is in line with what a majority in Stortinget decided just before Christmas. It is true that employee organisations have refused to participate. They point out that the Government is now in the process of creating a sample, which we will call the Labour Market Committee, which will deal with, among other things. a. the flexibility of the labour market, the need for changes due to changes in working life and working time in the future, including. a. the development of home work, which appears to be increasing. That sample has all the organisations agreed to participate. The selection is about to be appointed and will deliver its first sub-position already until the autumn. We have expectations that the sample will also be able to look at the issues raised by the representative Foss.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e512	This was still unclear. I thought it would be clearer when Councillor Queseth Haarstad was given the opportunity to correct one of his own party traps. What Morten Lund is saying here is that the agreement that the government parties in this House have concluded with the Right and the Advance Party is not to be fulfilled. That agreement explicitly states that a sample should be set up to look at the overtime arrangements, and that is not what the representative Morten Lund says to the Newspaper: ‘It is LO that decides. This case loses the government.’ I would like to ask the Council of State Queseth Haarstad to comment on both the principle view, that it is LO who decides in any case and that the Government loses, and then the second question: does he keep the wording of the agreement that a sample should be set up to look at the overtime provisions? Nor is it the case, as the representative Morten Lund says, that these overtime rules are supposed to be maintained as they are now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e519	As I said, we are now, for the first time, setting up this Labour Market Committee to look at what is going on in the working environment, job protection and participation. It should also look at the flexibility of the future labour market. It has been said by all the employees’ and employers’ organisations that they are interested in and willing to participate in. This sample should then make an adjustment for the autumn. One of the problems they're going to have is to look at the overtime regulations. It's right that we wanted, in parallel with this, to put down a sample that could only look at the overtime regulations, in line with what a majority in the Grand Duchy decided before Christmas. But it goes without saying that a party-based sample where none of the employee organisations want to participate will be a little difficult to implement. It makes us have to channel this also into the sample where all parties say they should be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e526	Lars Arne Ryssdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e529	It is not easy to interpret how the Government will deal with this. I would like to ask the Council of State Queseth Haarstad to confirm that she does not share Mr. Morten Lund's view that when the organisations do not want to participate in this work, it means that the Government will not take a stand and will not investigate this further. Can the Council confirm that she will reach a position in line with the agreement reached between the parties in the last harvest of the Storting and that LO and the absence of the other organisations will not delay that work?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e537	I've tried to explain that it's not only LO, but also the academics, AF and YS who have said no to participate in a sample that just has to look at the overtime regulations. However, all employee organisations have agreed to sit in the Labour Market Committee, which will look at increased flexibility in working life and will assess the need for increased flexibility in business and, of course, the need for more flexible working time arrangements for workers. Of course, the selection will also have the opportunity to assess the overtime provisions, because it is in order to obtain more flexibility. The selection we are about to make will provide a partial setting for the autumn. As the representative is sure to understand, it is difficult to set up a joint selection when all employee organisations refuse to participate. [[The President clubs.]] We have to be allowed to come back to this when we get a closer look at how we're going to proceed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e542	The President is asking that we stay within the time limits set. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e547	I will ask the Minister for Children and Family Affairs the following questions. The government has been concerned with having a very high value profile and making itself a spokesman for the very weakest in our society, and the Workers' Party was repeatedly faced in government positions with the fact that we are increasing the difference between the poorest and the richest in this country. In these days, 200,000 will lose their entitlement to sick pay, and there is a low salary of less than NOK 56 000 that will lose this entitlement. Is it not the Council of State that becomes a moral question when rich, wealthy families receive cash support, while the social welfare recipients lose it? And I have to ask how the Council of State can still sit completely paralyzed and see that there is such a degree of discrimination in our municipalities. Is it correct, in the opinion of the Council of State, that a person in Bergen should receive cash support if one is a social client, while one in Oslo should not receive it? Does not the Minister for Children and Family feel a responsibility for a system she herself has rushed through?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e554	The representative Orheim basically asked quite a few questions on one and the same question. I'll try to answer most of it. When it relates to the right to sick pay, I would like to remind you that the situation is unchanged for the first two weeks of a sick pay period, which then applies to most. I would like to admit that it was not the easiest proposal to put forward in the budget, but we were forced to find budgetary restraints in order to reduce interest rates. And then there were several measures there that weren't easy to show, and this was one of them. I don't have any trouble admitting that. After the decision of the State budget, it goes to both the rich and the poor – it does – and it also supports childcare facilities, it also goes to the rich and the poor. When the state supports the cash beneficiaries, it is exactly the same system as for the state support to the nursery. When it comes to managing differences between Oslo and Bergen, there's something that the government will come back to when we're going to present the big-time message on how to smooth out living conditions. There is no law today that allows me to order the municipalities to carry out the same practice, but I expect that when the big news comes to Stortingen, the government has also taken a stand, and we may have to follow up the decisions that will be taken. I also want to say that there are very big differences today also in the amount of support for social assistance recipients, someone gets less, and someone gets more. Thus, the municipalities have a freedom to evaluate this, and I have – because it is so different from one municipality to another – said that it can go, but I hope that we can get a more similar system in all our municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e567	The cash support does not go to both poor and rich as long as we see that the municipalities practice as differently as they do. And neither does it, as the Council of State has just done in this matter, recommend the municipalities to have a similar practice. The Minister for Children and Family Affairs has repeatedly been confronted with this issue without taking a concrete initiative. The idea of cash support was not that it should reduce the social costs of municipalities? At least there's not going to be a proper presentation, as the Council of State has done through the media lately, when she seems somewhat surprised at what's now happening in Kommune-Norway. She became, among other things, asked a written question about this on 22 September last year by the representative Signe Øye. I believe that the Council of State should act now through a proposal for a legislative decision. It is not useful to wait for the spring party to make a change in the law. We know enough, we know that 80 pst. of the municipalities cuts into the cash support.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e572	I understand that the representative is impatient. But we've put a race here in the government that I'm putting myself fully behind. Now we know that even in all the years that lie behind us, we have had a very different level of support when it comes to social assistance payments, and that's one of the things that we want to look at in the big-time news of equalization of living conditions. And as long as there's such a big difference, we get to live with this difference as well, and I want to say that the municipalities themselves have the freedom to consider whether they want the cash support scheme to be taken into account or not. If I was surprised – I was probably surprised by the numbers, not that there were any differences. I knew that, because we didn't clearly say from there and promote a bill that it should be similar to practice. But, as the representative knows for sure, there are different practices when it comes to child welfare, and it has been so in every year without the previous government taking it up. Now we've taken both of these schemes into account so that there will be a smoother distribution of support, and then I also hope that it will be better in time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e579	There will be follow-up questions – Inger Stolt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e582	I would like to ask the Council of State a follow-up question about what the Government really means, what it really wants. The Minister for Children and Family Affairs has on several occasions expressed her deep regret that some municipalities recognise the cash support as part of the income base of social assistance recipients. However, in a circular to the municipalities sent out by the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs on 1 December 1998, it is clear that cash support is among the economic rights to be recognised in the income base before social assistance is paid. Now it is the case that there are bureaucrats who are reading circulars, and there are mostly parents and other voters who are reading newspapers and listening to TV broadcasts, so how will the Council explain this double communication by the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e587	Yes, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has sent out a circular, as the representative says, and it says that the cash support can be counted together with the other benefits. But we also know that the municipalities have full freedom with regard to whether they want to charge it or not. That's what I'm trying to underline in my answers. Municipal self-government is also in force in this area. The reason why I'm defending it so far is that there's so much difference between municipalities when it comes to how much they give in social welfare. I hope that this government will be able to achieve a smoother distribution than we have now in society, and then we'll come up with a clearer advice. In the circular sent out, all the different support schemes are included. They can insert local authorities if they want to. As I also replied to the previous question, there is a recurring question of whether or not to include child protection. It's also in the circular form, and it's going to be treated differently.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e594	Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e597	The confusion is getting bigger and bigger for me when it comes to this question. I'm glad I'm not a social welfare beneficiary in Norway and wonder if I'm going to get between NOK 2000 and NOK 3000 more a month – or not. I hope someone can prepare it. For that state council did last week, and in a way nectar for now, was to say that really everyone should keep the cash support. Now the council says it's got to be up to the municipalities. So Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, who belongs to the same government, said at the annual meeting in the Rogaland Centerparti that she was not concerned about income in relation to social assistance. She wasn't interested in getting up to $3,000 — or maybe twice as much if you have two kids — in the difference between people, but she wanted to work for minimum standards. It's okay if you work for it, but it's going to be a very fuzzy signal. How should clients understand this, how should social offices perceive it, and how should they perceive it?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e605	It is as I say and have said many times, different practices. The government has also said that it may be until we take a position. The position is expressed in the message on anti-smoothing of living conditions. I actually thought it important to underline here the difference that is between municipalities already today. So I think it's important that before we give a clear answer, we get a more equal system than we've been able to do today. When one gets a more similar system, it's also easier to give clear advice. The proposal for cash support states that this should help the families of children to get more time together. Then it's clear that there's a basic hold there. But at the same time, we know that when the municipalities are going to pay out social assistance, they look at these things differently. When there's such a big difference between the municipalities, the government has said it's going to work, and then we're going to get back to this. And then I also hope that we have a system that is more smooth and less different than the system we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e614	Karin Andersen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e617	For this debate between the Council of State and the Workers' Party, I would say that proposals that will work more evenly, both the Workers' Party and the Government's parties could be allowed to participate in and decide on, because it will be proposed when the disparity message comes, unless the Government does so. Cash support is such that it is curtailment only for poverty and not for wealth. The council was also quite clear on who it was that had now been paid the agreement with the Progress Party and the Right. These included: social clients, there were women in ‘small’ jobs who were not receiving sick pay — and also the marginalities we could mention. But there are unclear signals here. So in the Municipal Report of March 5, this year, it is a State Secretary who says that the Ministry of Social Affairs will have equal treatment. In the last few days, the Council of State has also expressed its opinion that the Council of State believes that the cash support should not be curtailed. Is it possible for the Council of State to confirm or disapprove of her actual opinion in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e626	Yes, I think actually I've said it quite clearly, and I mean it also says among other things. In the proposition we sent to Stortinget, that cash support is going to improve the family's ability to have more time together. Then I also said clearly that as long as there are so many differences between the municipalities as it is today, the municipalities have the freedom to take it with them or not, just as they have the same freedom in relation to the child's rights. The government will then take a final position when the message is submitted, and if necessary it will follow up with any legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e631	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e634	I have a question for the Minister of Labour and Administration. In an inter-pelling debate before Christmas about public service offices, the Council of State told the Government that it is actively working to coordinate social affairs, social security and employment offices in municipalities, and several attempts have been made to do so. I thought that was a good idea. To my surprise, I have received a number of enquiries from my own county, Akershus, where it appears that a project aimed at just this, more or less, has stopped. Can the Council of State tell us what she can do to speed up this project?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e641	Yes, first I want to expand this project on service offices something. There, users are supposed to be able to meet the entire public service, not only in social services. So the service offices go on after the concept set up by the Government, and we are now working to remove rules that would have to prevent this from happening between municipal and public agencies. So for the project in Akershus, called the STA project. That doesn't mean that any of us have been so stubborn that we haven't gotten it done. STA actually stands for social, social and work. There is a type of client in need of support and assistance from all these institutions or agencies. The project in Akershus has defined coordination of this work in a way that has made it difficult to define it quite clearly as a project that we can go further with. There have been some laps. I have personally met representatives from the Akershus municipalities to try to get this in place, and the latest signals I have received from my State Secretary, who is responsible for continuing this work, are that there is now good contact between the head of state, social security and municipalities about continuing this work through a project. If there should still be things that are obstructive, I am of the opinion that I will go into the matter again to see if we can get this in place. There is also an important issue in relation to the Cohesion Communication, because this concerns people who are often out of work and are thus further exacerbated by their living conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e648	I have just received reports from the Intergovernmental Conference on the budget for 2000 through the media, and it is very clear that the Government will continue to hold the tight line in order to bring the interest rate down. However, there is also evidence that costs increase automatically, public welfare, sick pay, etc., in the order of more than DKK 5 billion per year. That means that we have to cut costs, and I also look at this public service office project and the STA project in Akershus as one of several tools to reduce costs. I hope the Council of State can help speed this up, because with a central administration that now costs us over 80 billion dollars a year, it should be possible to achieve coordination effects that are also shown on the cost side.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e653	Yes, I could come up with catchy descriptions from Halvorsbøle – I won't do that. But I think that within this STA project, there isn't always money needed; it's simply the interaction between state and municipal agencies that can get better. Through such an improvement in the process itself, perhaps also a stronger commitment, we can help these people to clear up their working capacity and get into work, and to arrange for them with a combination of social security and paid work. That is a clear objective. It will once again, as I said, strengthen the quality of life of people, and that will be good for public budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e658	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e661	I will be asked questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In the process now under way of the possible extension of NATO, a number of demands are being made on the Member States. The starting point is that we see NATO as an alliance to defend the interests of democracy. That is why we call for political control of the military and not military control of the policy in new Member States, and we call for these countries to be legal states. Then it's a paradox that one of the members of the alliance today, i.e. Turkey, does not meet any of the demands we make to new members. Turkey is not a legal state, and in Turkey, military control of politics is more than political control of the military. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Turkish management is very west-facing, very busy becoming part of the good company in the West, among other things. in NATO and the EU. How has Norway raised the Öcalan case and the requirement for a fair trial in NATO? And how will Norway use NATO's bodies to ensure that the same requirements are met for Turkey as those we are now making to new potential Member States in NATO?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e671	With regard to the human rights situation in Turkey, the representative Solheim will be aware that these are issues that we are discussing in multilateral forums, but also bilaterally. In particular, the Council of Europe has been used, which has a special responsibility for human rights in the light of the fact that they administer the Convention on Human Rights, where Turkey is also a member, and has acceded to this Convention. But we have also intensified the bilateral dialogue with Turkey on human rights. The Minister for Human Rights visited in this capacity, among others: Turkey last year, and will continue that dialogue. On the issue of NATO's role in human rights, there is no doubt that we have also discussed human rights. We are discussing good governance more generally within NATO, and it is true that when you look at the new strategic concept, a number of issues of a political nature in terms of good governance and democracy will also be involved. But I think we have a number of other bodies, both multilateral and bilateral, that are better suited to discuss both human rights issues and to put pressure on land in human rights matters, than precisely NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e678	Of course, I fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that it is not about boycotting Turkey or then pushing them out of Western cooperation, but about a dialogue and a pressure on Turkey. And then I think NATO is particularly useful for several reasons, partly because Turkey itself places such great emphasis on NATO and the heavy Western institutions, but also because this is about NATO's own moral basis. Before the strategic concept and discussions in Washington, there is an American demand that NATO be an organization that defends democracy all over the world. How can you do that on a somewhat safe moral basis, at all, at least discuss it, as long as you have in your own ranks a country that the blatant violates perfectly obvious things, such as demands for a lawyer, demands to choose your own lawyer, demands for international observers in legal proceedings, etc.? That's why I want to repeat the question of whether not exactly NATO is the place to now put clearer pressure on Turkey about a fair trial for Öcalan.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e685	In the context of its supplementary questions, the representative, Solheim, may have been injured to make a number of claims that are not necessarily entirely correct. We do not have the opportunity in Norway to have international observers in legal proceedings, so I am somewhat uncertain whether there is such a big difference between Norway and Turkey in the specific case. It is also my understanding that Öcalan has been given the right to choose his lawyers. Therefore, the starting point for the question may not be entirely correct. But we use, as I said, NATO, because we're not satisfied with the human rights situation in Turkey, and that's why we've started a dialogue with Turkey. We have intensified it bilaterally. I personally believe that the Council of Europe and the bilateral are more appropriate, but we use, as I said, NATO in this context, in a broader context in the area of human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e690	There will be follow-up questions – Ågot Valle.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e693	The right to choose their own lawyers is quite misleading when the lawyers are exposed to threats, so that they are forced to resign. But I'll get a little further into Öcalan and his destiny. When Öcalan was kidnapped and led to Turkey, he had tried to fit in with several Western countries, and he had a peace initiative. No Western country would accept him, and no one would consider the peace plan he was going to discuss. Öcalan signaled that the time had now come for a political solution to the long - standing war between the Turkish state and the Kurds. It has been found that Öcalan would also have access to Norway and try to get Norway to join in discussing this peace plan. I would like to know if it is true that Norway has received this enquiry, and if Öcalan has not received it, I would also like to know what the reasons why Norway would not take on this leadership role.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e702	Let me first say that we are concerned with Öcalan's trial, with which the representative Valle will be familiar, and follow it closely. On the question of whether Öcalan has asked for political asylum in Norway, I am not familiar with it. I've seen this in the media, and I've been confronted with it by the special class struggle. I have never received such an enquiry, and I have said that we have not evaluated this, because we have not received such a request. So my answer to that is that it has not been evaluated, because we have not received such an enquiry.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e709	The time for the oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e725	Last year, 96,787 people crossed the border in South Varanger. They all have something to say about the distress, about people living in desperate poverty, that the weakest, the old and the young, the disabled and the orphans are the ones who are hardest hit by the Russian financial crisis and economic collapse. I've visited Maxim and his orphan friends in Apatity. I have seen children's homes with broken window panes and empty food stalls. The winter is cold. I have eaten red cabbage soup with small pieces of meat at 50-year-old Nathalia who had taken 14 orphaned babies. I've seen an old grandmother cry when the Norse business leaders filled her dining room. Without strong women, the Russian babushka, the situation had been even worse. Therefore, I was morally dismayed that our own councillor Hilde Frafjord Johnson in summing up the big debate on 4 February this year on humanitarian aid defends that she did not at all care about North-West Russia in her long presentation on 21 January. The state council should take a trip to the Barents region. Then she would have self-evidently confirmed what the United Nations Development Programme says, that 150 million people in the old Soviet Union live in extreme poverty. To put it into a more understandable perspective: 150 million people are as many as they live in France, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and the whole Nordic region together. It's about 150 million people living from hand to mouth, without a health care system, without schooling and without safe outcomes. They are 'untrustworthy of tomorrow', as the Evening Post so aptly writes in a leader on February 12 this year. We can very quickly agree that the humanitarian situation in North-West Russia is also a responsibility for us as the closest neighbours. From the height of 96 on the national border, we look with the naked eye at people who tempt a life of material distress, hunger and humiliation. Old people are freezing, kids are starving. A proud Russian people need neighboring help. And they get it. They get help, but not enough. The Norwegian state does not set up this way both we and they could expect Nansen's home country. We want to be the best, but preferably in developing countries, where the need is far from our own living door. Of the total foreign budget of NOK 11 billion, we have set at 55 million. kr to Eastern Europe, of which – as I understand it – is 40 million. kr from the agricultural agreement. 9/10 of the foreign budget goes to international assistance in parts of the world other than our own. The right claim is that the bulk of the population has been looking too long blindly at a goal of 1 pst. GNI shall be used for assistance purposes, as long as democracy measures, humanitarian aid and support for other actions in our neighbourhoods are not defined in this 1 pst target. Anyone who has seen the need in North-West Russia wonders that the vast majority of people are causing the humanitarian situation in Kola to deteriorate because the people who have to compete for 1/10 of our budget, while the other 9/10 are reserved ‘to help those who are hardest hit, where the needs are the greatest’, as State Council Frafjord Johnson said in Stortinget on 4 February. And so distressed Russians are not in great enough distress according to her opinion. The government was supposed to be there a cold February day. Maybe the cold brain and the warm heart had seen that this distribution is wrong. For us who live in North Norway, close to the need, it's a crossroads that the government can make a statement in the Great Britain about humanitarian aid without including the Barents region in the description. Through the media and through self-confidence, the need is present. For example, I can. recommend a week's reading of the newspaper Nordlyst, which in countless reports and pictures has described the situation. We have a big message on the voluntary sector under discussion in Stortinget. Here, the government and the Storting of non-governmental organisations and the involvement of individuals in a number of areas. Why does the government not see the broad and strong commitment that people across Norway, for a long time, have shown to alleviate the humanitarian situation in North-West Russia? It would have been a good idea if a government grant had been channelled through the countless actions that people have engaged in. Here a public crown would quickly breed to three. SOS children's cities gave 2,600 children in 41 children's institutions warm clothes before Christmas, and they got 500 new fatherhoods within a few months. Six million. kr they collected in the ‘Help the neighbor’s children’ action and 10 mill. kr for the construction of a children's town in Murmansk came from a single donor. The East Trade Centre of the Churches and Statoil, in cooperation with the school authorities of Murmansk, has run the project ‘School Lunch for Children in Murmansk and Kola’. Students in three schools are thus given a lunch every day. Rector Hans Schelderup in Rossfjordstraumen has now sent 85 car combinations with food, clothes and equipment for very much needed. LO and Norwegian People's Aid have been badly involved, thanks to the solidarity of the trade union movement. The Red Cross has established itself with infrastructure and emergency assistance and must bet 70 million. kr. $12 million. kr they collected quickly into the ‘Nabo in distress’ action. «Mor Murmansk», 85-year-old Margot Lorentsen in Tromsø, has demonstrated an expeditious commitment over several years and has sent hundreds of consignments of bus, car and Braathen aircraft with medicines, hospital equipment, toys, food and clothing. Thanks to the Norwegian hospitality, thousands of kids at Kola have also been transported to Norway during the summer stay, and have returned home saturated with a bag full of clothes. The county councils and municipalities in North Norway are responsible for a strong commitment. Most people end up about collections and actions. Why? Of course, it's because people care. Many are waiting for the government to care more, and join the team in a much broader and stronger commitment. One hundred million. It is now proposed for the Eastern and Central European programme. But how much is going to go to humanitarian aid? The basis for the Norwegian initiative for the Barents region was to contribute to the balancing of differences in the living conditions of people in the north. Much is done by the authorities, I admit, and even more is done by engaged individuals in Norway. During the autumn budgetary procedure, the Government claimed that there was enough money to meet the needs of Central and Eastern Europe. The right doubted that time, and we suggested another 80 million. NOK for emergency aid. The majority of the population voted it down, and the government did not recommend it. Now we see that the needs are laughing at us, and we've only come to the beginning of March. That neighbors who want to live in peace help each other are good people. I therefore agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs who in the 1997 Annual Report on the Cooperation Programme with Central and Eastern Europe says that the proximity alone does not impose a responsibility on us, but ‘that we are neighbours does not reduce responsibility. Through the cooperation programme, we conduct community construction in the spirit of the neighbourhood». Unfortunately, the clear speech of the numbers shows that we are better at using big words than at providing humanitarian aid in the Barents region. In 1997, we pledged a total of 114 million in support for various areas of activity. kr in the Barents region. Only NOK 249,000 went to humanitarian aid. The clear figures for 1997 are that Norway provided EUR 900 000 to Russia as a whole in humanitarian aid of a total of 241 million. kr referred to in the 1997 Annual Report. I fear that the worst people in North-West Russia will have little joy of the 100 million. kr which the Government has now proposed in a proposal under consideration by the Foreign Affairs Committee, unless the Committee should give a clearer priority to it than the Government has done. I also assume that the Foreign Affairs Committee will carefully consider the proposal and the need for further emergency aid. The right will at least come back with more concrete proposals for funding that follow the intentions we have had in our two-year state budget, where we have proposed an emergency aid package of 80 million. NOK 160 million in total. kr over 2 years. The real gravity of the situation in North-West Russia is described by the authorities of Arkhangelsk and Murmansk, who are biting the degradation and begging for help for food, medicine and medical devices. Then I ask on their behalf: what is the Government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs who has had a strong commitment in other areas in the Barents region? Does the Government and the Council of State have a strategy to alleviate distress? I'm taking up the two suggestions that we've traveled, which are on the table. In one proposal, we ask the Government to return to the revised national budget with an assessment of the possibility of channelling humanitarian aid funds to our neighbourhoods through voluntary organisations and/or the United Nations system. As I've also shown, it's an engagement, and it's a need. And one public crown in this case, as in so many other cases, will breed for both two and three when combining volunteer work and government crowns. In the second proposal, we ask the Government to come back to the revised national budget with a review of the need for humanitarian aid in North-West Russia, as it seems to lack an overview and a complete knowledge of it. I think that's gross. I think that we should get a much better overview of this in the bar's regional cooperation, and we should then draw up a strategy and promote action plans in line with that knowledge. We've traveled these suggestions. Let me also say that when the Storting and the Foreign Affairs Committee deal with the bill of 100 million. The kr-appropriations, we will make proposals on any additional appropriations in line with what we proposed in the autumn, and in line with the fact that part of the year has passed. We make concrete proposals on supplementary appropriations through the suspension of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e774	Sir. The Ludvigsen has taken up the suggestions he himself has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e777	The representative of Ludvigsen is entitled to the serious humanitarian situation in northern Russia. The fourth year’s economic crisis led to an acute deterioration in the supply situation of some weak groups. This was the reason why last September Governor Jevdokimov of Murmansk made an appeal for humanitarian aid to his colleagues in the Barents region, including the Nordic country rapporteurs. The appeal concerned assistance in the form of basic foods and medicines. From the Russian side, it was clarified that there was no general supply crisis. However, there was an urgent need for assistance to the most disadvantaged, especially to institutions for children, the elderly and the sick. It was estimated that the need for help would continue until the summer of this year. The Russian appeal triggered considerable activity at county and local level in Northern Norway, to which the representative Ludvigsen has referred. Aid was granted by the Norwegian central authorities for aid of 14.5 million. kr, channeled primarily through the Red Cross, but also through other bodies such as the municipality of Karasjok, the Norwegian Commonwealth of Norway, the Church's Emergency Aid, Redd Barna, Norwegian People's Aid and Oslo Christian Center. The emphasis was placed on reaching vulnerable indigenous groups. In addition, the Agricultural Cooperation concluded an agreement for the free supply of protein-rich foods, funded under the agricultural agreement, at a value of approximately Forty million. kr. I would like to take the opportunity to pay tribute to those who have been active in this auxiliary work. Solidarity with vulnerable people in the north is a worthy six-year mark on Barents' cooperation. I would also like to stress that it is important that the help comes out. The Norwegian aid organisations have developed a good cooperation relationship with the local authorities of Russia. Good procedures are in place. The government is in close contact with the relief organisations and with our neighbouring countries. We know that the inhabitants of the north are going through a hard winter. We need to see in our eyes that there will be a need for help for months to come. It is not realistic to expect any improvement before the agricultural crops of the year come into circulation. A good annual yield after the failure of last year is therefore essential. However, if the crops become poor, it cannot be excluded that the situation next winter will be at least as difficult as it is today. We must avoid groups of people in North-West Russia becoming dependent on emergency aid. The representative of Ludvigsen is therefore entitled to combine humanitarian aid to alleviate distress with longer-term measures. It is just this government is trying to contribute to. On 18 February, as you know, the Government promoted a proposal for the Stortinget with a proposal for an additional 100 million. actions under the Cooperation Programme with Central and Eastern Europe and the Nuclear Action Plan. If the proposal is adopted by the Stortinget, it will total 155.5 million. available for cooperation projects in 1999. We're assuming that about 60 pst. of these funds will be used in North-West Russia. In addition, transfers amounting to 63 million. kr from the last year's budget. The Government will give priority to humanitarian aid within these budget frameworks. At the same time, cooperation with North-West Russia on longer-term measures will continue, inter alia, through: Barn cooperation. On the Norwegian side, we give priority to health and the environment, economic development, cultural cooperation and training, and the development of democratic and rule of law principles. Let me draw three examples of priority tasks here: The Barents Council meeting in Bodø last week adopted a comprehensive health plan for the Barents region. It includes, inter alia: combating infectious diseases, measures to improve the health of indigenous peoples and the development of skills, such as: by telemedicine. The government is going in to set aside 10-15 million. kr annually to the health plan for the next four years, subject to the consent of the Storting. Furthermore, the work on nuclear safety in the north is an environmental effort of great importance for the Kola peninsula. The Norwegian-Russian framework agreement on nuclear safety of the fourth year forms the basis of the multilateral declaration of principles adopted in Bodø. This declaration was signed by 13 countries, including the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany and France, and is an important starting point for ensuring wide international efforts in the comprehensive clean-up process. Norway has run a very active diplomacy to get this done. The Framework Agreement and the Declaration of Principles are important steps towards removing legal barriers to road clearance. Now Russia and donor countries must set clear priorities for this work in the future. Thirdly, I want to mention business development, where in the last year we have seen an improvement in the situation. A working group has made considerable use of the monitoring of barriers to economic cohesion in the Barents region. The Finnish Presidency is now responsible for continuing the important work to improve the framework conditions for trade and investment. At the same time, Russia has improved the conditions for investment in the energy sector. This is important in order to develop the significant potential of the large oil and gas resources in the region. Norway has been a driver to improve the framework conditions for business. As a follow-up to the positive developments we see in Barents’ cooperation, we are now considering two measures. Firstly, we will look at the use of the support and guarantee schemes of the State Enterprise and Regional Development Fund (SND) and the Guarantee Institute of Export Credit (GIEK). The aim is to identify specific projects which may be supported by these schemes. Secondly, we consider testing a scheme of less credits or micro-loans in the Russian part of the Barents region. We would like to do this in cooperation with other countries. Such financial instruments are important for small and medium-sized enterprises. They also contribute to stimulating the financial sector in an economy. The scheme may also be targeted, for example: by giving priority to activities undertaken by women. These are concrete Norwegian contributions to the transfer of competences and help to self-help. The objective is to strengthen Russia’s capacity for long-term, positive economic and social development, so that the need for urgent assistance to the weakest sections of the population is reduced as quickly as possible. However, a lasting solution to the problems also depends on Russia itself being able to implement the necessary conversions and long-term measures.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e816	I thank the Council of State for the answer. We can quickly see that we agree that the humanitarian situation is serious for large groups of people in North-West Russia and that humanitarian aid must be combined with other measures. So let me repeat what I said in my first post, that Norwegian authorities have done and done a lot in the Barents region. There's no doubt about it. But it is done too little in the humanitarian field. That is where the need is enormous. If we are to succeed in some of the other measures, whether they are in health, or they are in the field of nutrition development, we must also ensure that the humanitarian situation of the most deprived is improved. And here it is that we haven't done enough in relation to the need, and we haven't done enough in relation to what we as neighbors should provide. The Council of State gives the impression that it is now making a huge effort. That's, to put it nicely, only partially correct. First of all, I have the impression that the government is not prioritizing well enough. All measures are prioritised at the same time by an excessive amount of money. And even if you now in St. prp. No 38 have proposed an increase of 100 million. To Central and Eastern Europe, this does not mean that there is an increase in relation to the efforts we have made in previous years. We note that the government did not have sufficient overview in the autumn, when the budgetary agreement claimed that there were enough funds. I am still morally dismayed that the government in an hour-long statement in the Storting did not focus on North-West Russia. But I am pleased that the Foreign Minister has now focused on this, and I have no doubt that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has much to do with understanding the problems up there. But focus is not enough. What we now have to do – and it's urgent, because winter is still a long time – is to deploy resources so that we can alleviate the distress of the poorest and victims of the Russian financial crisis and the economic collapse up there. Let me repeat the question, because it's not going well enough out of St. pp. No 38, where the government proposes 100 million. D to nuclear safety measures and the Central and Eastern Europe Cooperation Programme: when the Council of State is so strongly stressed that the Government will give priority to it, it can say something more specific about how it will now give priority to these 100 million. kr for humanitarian aid? Can the Council assure us that this is enough money now? In the right hand side, we don't think so, and when we're dealing with St. pp. No 38 in the Foreign Affairs Committee, we will make concrete proposals on increased appropriations earmarked for the humanitarian situation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e829	I have a great deal of understanding of the moral aggravation of the representative Ludvigsen. I think it is healthy and right, and I would like to put pressure on myself and shut up – if it is a parliamentary expression, President – so that we do not do enough when it comes to a good thing. After all, the representative Ludvigsen gives a certain credit to the government, but then it drowns in the moral aggravation afterwards, when he says we don't give priority. The representative Ludvigsen himself pointed out that in 1997, there were 900,000 DKK for emergency aid in Russia. I just told Stortinget that we had 55 million in 1998. kr. It is a relatively large increase – with all possible respect. If I don't mess with the numbers, I guess I told you it was $14 million. SEK + 40 million. NOK, so it would be away from $55 million. NOK set off, so that there is at least an increase from NOK 900000 to SEK 55 million. kr. I agree with the representative Ludvigsen when he says we must help in the humanitarian field if we are to succeed in other areas. That was exactly the basis for the government, when it took over the leadership of the Barents Council for Norway last year, to turn the direction from a business-oriented effort to strengthen the soft values, because we saw that health and education were a prerequisite for economic growth in Russia. But at the same time, we must not go from one extreme to the other, because it is important, as I am absolutely sure the representative Ludvigsen agrees with me, that in the long term it is better to teach people to fish than just give them fish. This is not least the case in North-West Russia. That is why we also have a responsibility to look at the longer-term measures, even if there is an urgent need, which we should not forget. Within the proposals we have now submitted to the Stortinget in the amount of 100 million. kr, emergency aid is an important area. I can't say right now how much help is available, but at least that's a relatively large proportion. This is something we are discussing with Norwegian non-governmental organisations, and there may be room for more. But what we also need to remember, which I am sure the representative Ludvigsen is concerned about, and which the Russian authorities are concerned about, is that the channels are also important. We are not going to do Norwegian assistance for black stock exchanges. That's why it's important that we have a receiver that's always good enough. We have had that in cooperation with the Red Cross, the Church's Emergency Aid, the Samemission. And we're going to make sure we still have that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e840	Let me first stress that there is no doubt about the seriousness of what the interpellant has taken up. I fully support the description given by Ludvigsen here, and also the need for assistance, and I think that the commitment of the representative Ludvigsen is commendable. No border in the world marks a greater difference in living standards than the border between Norway and Russia. The humanitarian situation in North-West Russia is precarious, and it is necessary that Norway, the other Nordic countries and the EU both address long-term cooperation projects with Russia and recognise the need for immediate humanitarian assistance. However, on the part of the Labour Party, we are a little surprised at the interpellation and proposals that have been put forward for two reasons. The right was in the budgetary agreement with the Government before Christmas strongly contributing to the cutting-off of the appropriations both to Russia and Eastern Europe, and I think the history of Ludvigsen is somewhat deficient in this regard. We were also dissatisfied with the government's proposals in this area, and we proposed an increase in the financial position in addition to the proposition. However, when the right came into the agreement, the allocation was further cut. I would also like to question two verbal proposals for increased appropriations to Russia in the revised national budget today, when there is actually an additional 100 million. kr for consideration by the Foreign Affairs Committee. We are going to have a debate next week on humanitarian aid to Russia, and it is therefore wrong to advance that debate with two verbal proposals here today. We'd better get back to that next week. I think that the representative should draw up the proposals now and rather assess them next week. Maybe the interpellation should also have been taken at the same time as the treatment of the proposition. But when it comes to treatment, we want a proper debate on the new social divides in our neighbourhoods, on the problem of poverty, on the long-term unemployed and on direct social distress. But we also want a debate on structural problems, as the Foreign Minister also stressed, and an incredible wealth among a few, which is probably due to the lack of effective administrations and public and civil organisations, the tradition of private business development and the lack of economic rules and a democratic law, which thus leads to, among other things. a precarious lack of provision of health, education and care for the elderly. Norway should play an active role in developing our neighbourhood, both through the regional cooperation bodies and by contributing to the strengthening — and concrete — of the northern dimension of the EU to address emergencies. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]] But we'll get back to that debate next week.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e855	The President will remind you that the speaking time is 3 minutes, and it must be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e858	It is not difficult to conclude that the situation in North-West Russia is difficult for many. The question is, how can this be resolved in the most appropriate way? The answer to this will probably vary slightly depending on the conditions that must be considered to weigh the weight of an overall assessment. The starting point of the Advance Party will then be: what will the Russian people earn in the short term and not least in the long term? The help provided by Norway from a voluntary and human point of view, we must try to call again. In this context, public assistance could be provided in several ways. Perhaps the most appropriate thing is to be able to guide and facilitate the export and import of consignments to Russia. In fact, it may seem strange that a country that experiences the individual as a ‘painful’ distress has barriers to trade that make aid difficult. This may seem like the situation, for example. in the north-west does not mean that Russia wishes to make practical and necessary adjustments that will improve conditions for people there. It's worrying that a socialist and communist duma is not willing to do what is necessary to give their own people the goods and services that we here take as a matter of course. This brings us to the long-term problems of aid to Russia could lead to. Russia has in recent years received very large funds for stabilisation and further development. Nevertheless, a beak may claim that Russia has taken far too big a step forward. This is probably largely due to the pre-mentioned majority in the Duma and the lack of order for fundamental market-economy pillars. The question of e.g. private ownership shows in many ways the problems of Russia in a nutshell. It will be of little benefit to neighbouring countries to provide building aid to Russia when Russian authorities themselves do nothing to stabilise basic conditions. In fact, Russia has every opportunity to become a large net exporter of food with its amazing agricultural area. They have knowledge of natural resources to become a prosperous industrialised country. But this means that Russia itself is addressing the problems and doing what actually has to be done. We must not get into a situation where the Russian authorities lose ownership of what is actually a Russian problem.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e867	Of course, it could have been tempting to go on longer-term principal lines in the Russian situation both politically and economically, as the representative Kukkestad now began. I still choose to go directly into what is the acute humanitarian situation. There is no doubt both for solidarity and for strong ties with our neighbours when the lack of food, clothing and medicine triggers such a strong and deep commitment on the part of both individuals and organisations as we see in North Norway. It's an engagement that deserves the praise and the honor that the Foreign Minister has just expressed, and it's probably also the same commitment that the representative Svein Ludvigsen has as a background for his interpellation here today. He asks, what will the Government do as immediate action? The Minister of Foreign Affairs has just given an answer that shows that the Government is in no way passive to this situation, as Ludvigsen gives the impression of by his formulation of the interpellation, and which he actually reinforces in his speech. I think his criticism shoots far beyond goals – it shows the Foreign Minister's posts. I also refer to what has been said about the Stortinge in a short time to discuss the application of the 100 million. kr proposed as additional appropriations for different actions, inter alia. to North-West Russia. The fact that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has now stated that the Government wishes to give priority to humanitarian aid under the given budgetary framework further underlines that the Government has paid the utmost attention to the difficult living conditions in the area. Health and the environment are important cooperation actions, as are the development of democratic processes and institutions. I think this is important for a more long-term solution to the problems we see, among other things. in North-West Russia. I also think it is important to stimulate business development, and there is no reason to hide that in this particular area one might not have come as far as it had hoped. Nevertheless, we must not lose sight of these important objectives when we also discuss the immediate measures. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs also said in his speech, we must avoid the people of North-West Russia becoming permanently dependent on emergency aid. As regards the two proposals made by the representative, Mr Ludvigsen, on behalf of the Right, I would like to make a strong request that the representative transmit them to the Government without a vote of substance. I agree with the representative, Mr Nybakk, that when we are going to deal with the additional 100 million. kr, where humanitarian aid is a part, it should be unnecessary to promote it for the purpose of reality here today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e879	I noticed that the representative Steensnæs was indignant about the results and the critical attitude the interpellant had to have against the government's efforts in relation to North-West Russia. I would just like to remind the representative Steensnæs that the starting point for the need to promote this interpellation was a reaction to the fact that the Minister for Development and Human Rights did not find it worth mentioning North-West Russia in a detailed hour-long statement on humanitarian aid. I think the representative Steensnæs should bear in mind that this was the starting point for the interpellation. When it comes to the foreign budget of 11 billion kroner, 55 million is going to go. D to Eastern Europe. 9/10 of the foreign budget goes to international assistance in parts of the world other than our own. The appropriations for environmental and democracy measures in Central and Eastern Europe have fallen sharply in recent years. Each year in the 1990s, the right has proposed increases in these appropriations. Not least, we've been concerned with nuclear detoxification at Kola. The reason why our neighbourhoods are short in terms of appropriations, is, in our view, in two respects, the fact that the majority of the population lack sufficient understanding of Norway's co-responsibility for the development of the new democracies east of us. We cannot exercise this co-responsibility simply by expressing verbal support and giving talks about how important it is that the process of conversion in the East must succeed. We also have to contribute financially, and here the Right has been a driver. Secondly, over many years, the population has been blind to the objective of 1 pst. GNI shall be granted for assistance purposes. Because democracy measures, humanitarian aid and support for other actions in our neighbourhoods are not defined as official assistance, these funds are not included in this 1%. And as a result, the majority are extremely reluctant to use aid in the neighbourhoods. That is the background for proposal No. 1 which the inter-pellant has promoted — a proposal which will mean that the allocation of humanitarian aid in the neighbourhoods will go beyond budget lines reported as official development assistance. With regard to the matter to which reference has been made and which is now under consideration in the Foreign Affairs Committee, I can only confirm that, in the light of the answers given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs so far on the situation of the appropriations in this area, the Right will propose a further 50 million. kr when we get that far.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e888	I am pleased that the representative Ludvigsen with this interpellation gives us another opportunity to focus on the very difficult situation of our neighbor in the northeast. However, I am very surprised that Ludvigsen allows himself to claim that the Department and Government do not take the situation in the Barents region seriously. I allow myself to express that such a claim almost falls upon its own unfairness. My view is further strengthened after having heard the Foreign Minister’s statements here today, and not least after having read his speech to the Barents Council recently – otherwise a speech containing both visions and proposals for concrete cooperation. Now that we're on our way into a new millennium, it's natural to settle the status, see where we stand, and mobilize visions for the future. Furthermore, it is absolutely necessary to look at the specific problems that Barents' cooperation confronts us, and not least the possibilities we have to solve them. As we are well known, the Barents region is richly equipped by nature. It is our task to develop the region's potential for human and economic growth. We need to learn from each other, improve our organisations and institutions, reduce barriers to interaction – economic, cultural and humanitarian – and be prepared to provide help in difficult situations. The environmental challenges are enormous and need to be resolved jointly. I believe that there is a great deal of consensus that political relations have never been better suited to strengthening the Barents region. The ideological barriers are gone, and the recognition of being part of a new destiny remains. I am pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs unequivocally stated that the Government stressed that the humanitarian situation in northern Russia is serious, and that the appeal by Governor Jevdokimov for assistance in the form of basic food and medicine was met with concrete help, not just by the authorities. From our geographic point of view, the interpellant knows and signed well the enormous mobilization we experienced from grassroots in the part of the country. The same willingness to help us also experienced, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, from organisations and politicians. It's of great importance, not least for credibility, that we can now establish that the help comes out. I am also very pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs strongly stated that we need to avoid groups in North-West Russia becoming dependent on emergency aid and humanitarian aid to alleviate emergencies, and that this can be done by combining assistance with longer-term measures. I clearly see a strong will on the part of the Government for a public initiative, not least in the context of the proposal for additional appropriations. [[The President clubs.]] I understand the Minister for Foreign Affairs that he will give priority to humanitarian aid. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e903	I must ask the representatives not to draw the President's patience any more.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e906	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer he gave, and I am very relieved when he says that he is willing to go in and increase the appropriations for humanitarian work in North-West Russia. It is also important, because you sit with the presidency, that you see the need to focus more on health and the social situation that you now experience in North-West Russia. Barents' regional cooperation must not become a sleep cushion for the government's responsibility for humanitarian aid to North-West Russia. What we experienced when the governor contacted us, among other things. Finnmark County, in connection with the distress that occurred in Murmansk last year, has shown that, after strong pressure from the Nordic states, assistance was provided by national teams. An assistance link was subsequently established to help create an information office in Murmansk that helped to make it easier to bring in, among other things. food. There were major problems along the border when it came to customs. There was also a quick treatment that made it possible to help, so that you could get the groceries in. The population of the north of the Nordic region is abstinent to this auxiliary action with over 200 000 tonnes of food. It shows that the engagement of the people of the north is enormous. Therefore, it is important that the Government assists in the humanitarian effort and focuses much more strongly on long-term action. Therefore, I will allow myself verbally to make some suggestions on how to enter and invest in the long term. The proposals I am now referring to are drawn up after discussions with people who work daily in the Barents region and who see what problems you are facing. As early as March, there will be a large conference in the Church, focusing on the disabled and how to enter and facilitate better conditions for people with disabilities in the Murman region in close cooperation with Norway. Many such projects will be set up, and it is important to assist nationally to gain a better understanding of the situation of the population in North-West Russia. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e917	I have previously given the Right Honour for their commitment to the conditions in Russia and in particular North-West Russia. Now, however, it is such that the engagement can occasionally make a little one-eyed, and I think there were elements in the posts both to Svein Ludvigsen and Siri Frost Sterri who had a certain character of oneness. It focuses on the issue of comparing other humanitarian aid in other parts of the world with the need for long-term assistance there and the situation in North-West Russia. Then, of course, one can discuss how unfortunate it was that the Minister of Aid did not mention anything about this situation in his presentation, but it is, after all, a point of having a division of responsibilities between state councils that has a certain significance for the topics and subjects on which you come up with it. It would, of course, be premature to remind Right that a representative of their party has just gone out and with a great deal of heavily criticised aid and humanitarian activity in parts of the world other than North-West Russia. It can also cause you not always to discover and record the involvement and effort that others make. In this context, I am thinking of the Government. As far as I could see the Foreign Minister's answers and posts here today, it was very clear that the Government has an involvement in these questions, and that they have also followed up. Not least the way the Government has prioritised Barents' cooperation and the issues that have been prioritised have a clear significance, including for humanitarian aid. The situation in North-West Russia is serious. There is every reason to pay tribute to the commitment that has taken place here, not least in North Norway, both among municipalities, county councils and private and private organisations. There's every reason to emphasize it. According to the information I have received from people who can far more about this than I can, there are also some more structural problems related to humanitarian aid. It is not just a matter of major appropriations, it is simply a matter of providing humanitarian aid, and in this context it has been mentioned both customs problems and transport problems. It just shows that some of the more structural issues that the Government has said it has worked on and, in part, has also been resolved in recent days are important.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e928	Let me begin by expressing my satisfaction at finally giving Russian workers the opportunity to work in the Norwegian fishing industry. It's very much Russian fish you're set to process, so I'm glad. The Minister of Foreign Affairs referred to the Barents Council meeting last week, and there he was given the self-esteem to see the efforts of the universities in the north. In this context, I want to focus my attention on the fact that the Narvik University, which educates 30 Russian engineering students annually, is repeatedly refused to expand its quota, so that over a four-year cycle they can train 30 students per year. years. I ask the Foreign Minister to take note of this, and I also ask him to contribute to the extension of this quota by 30 extra students, to which he himself refers, is a contribution to increasing and strengthening the development of industry in Russia. Then it is alluded to indifference, and I think it is a paradox that this debate, which is very commendable, allows itself to do so, and is unable to see the connection between the humanitarian efforts of the Norwegian side and the political conditions we have in our absolutely closest neighbourhood. We have the world's largest scrap pile lying in our neighborhood. We have the world's largest nuclear arsenal in our neighbourhood, and we have some nuclear power stations at our limit which should be more alarming than referring to the December 1998 budgetary procedure and who had proposed what. In today's situation it is not enough to take this seriously in my opinion. What Ludvigsen is doing here is asking for the efforts to be coordinated and strengthened. It will be a totally wrong starting point in this debate to be more committed to defending the Minister of Aid's statement on 21 January of this year than to bet more on the situation we have in our very closest neighbourhood. Rather, we should contribute jointly to raising these issues on the political agenda of the Government. That is how I see the inter-pellant's proposals and contributions in this debate. I hope that this is taken a little more seriously also by the government parties than the debate today has shown.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e939	The representative Hove said that I was “one” in my commitment. My answer to that is: thank me for it rather than being blind! I have an engagement, and I share that with many. In addition to the whole country, there is a broad commitment for those suffering from distress. It's my business with this interpellation. But I also agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs – which I also believe has a strong commitment in North-West Russia, without either claiming that he is blind or one-eyed – in that we have to make sure that in our humanitarian aid we do not make North-West Russia dependent on emergency aid. Unfortunately – I was about to say – there is no risk of that happening either. To that, the situation is far too serious. But we also need to move forward, as the Council of State rightly says, combined with humanitarian aid and other contributions that can help build society and the various infrastructures in a country that is now collapsing due to the economic crisis. When I left the interpellation last January, it was a response to the Minister of Aid's statement on Norwegian humanitarian aid. I am very pleased that both the debate we had in February following the Council of State statement on the humanitarian situation, and the commitment here today shows that there is a broad political consensus that we are now going to increase our assistance. I hope that we will also be willing to look at how we finance it, and that we will not now break down principles of distribution between developing countries and neighbourhoods so that we can find enough resources to increase our efforts in these areas. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that we have increased our effort from NOK 900 000 in 1997 to SEK 55 million. 1998 kr. I remember that it is also related to the fact that Norwegian farmers through the agricultural agreement, together with the state, have helped to get this great promise. Otherwise, we're left with $15 million. kr. This only again illustrates that the voluntary sector has been at the forefront of our involvement in North-West Russia. What I and many people are asking for now is we're going to combine a public crown and let it breed with the heads that the big commitment around the country has initiated, which is the most important part of the effort. But I am afraid that with the progress we have, the cow will starve as the grass grows – in this case people who are the worst. I am surprised that the representative Tor Nymo is so pleased with the Government. He also disagrees with his party colleague, the county rapporteur in Troms.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e952	The representative, Mr Ludvigsen, has made a few proposals. I would suggest that the government be allowed to look at them. I can't see that in the two proposals that have been put forward, there is something we should be opposed to. We will assess this in the future, and I hope that we will be able to look at them in a way that also satisfies the representative Ludvigsen. I must say, however, that I do not understand proposal No. 1 as the representative Frost Sterri understands it. Under OECD legislation, it is not possible to report the assistance to North-West Russia as ODA, as official development assistance, but it should not prevent us from contributing. Nor does the government want to do so. With regard to the budget we have now presented, and the new proposal of 100 million. kr, it is a little difficult for me to say just how much will go to humanitarian aid. For the time being, it seems that it could be approx. Fifteen million. kr. But we have a close cooperation with non-governmental organisations, and I hope that this debate today and the future debate will be a debate on how best to help the people of North-West Russia, and not necessarily a battle where you tell how little the government does or has done. Working with non-governmental organisations is something that I would say most Norwegian governments have done, because they have seen that we have a large and good network of non-governmental organisations. This government has now done nothing less, I will dare to claim, in terms of support for and cooperation with non-governmental organisations. There is some of the cooperation that also makes us think that we have good channels for the people of North-West Russia. But some of the dilemma in all kinds of emergency aid is that we often don't manage to help well enough. It's not just due to lack of funding, but it's also because we're in a dilemma about the accountability of the channels, so that the funds and gifts we give are not abused. I would like to say to the representative of Kukkestad that the Russian authorities have shown good cooperation. At local level, they have just taken the initiative to change the legislation so that we could reach it with our emergency aid. And I want to assure both the representative Ludvigsen and the Stortinget that the Government will continue this work in cooperation with Norwegian non-governmental organisations and in cooperation with the Russian authorities, for the benefit of the people of North-West Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e961	So the debate is on case No. 2 o'clock. [[Opinion on proposals, see page 2311]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e977	It's bad to be exposed to a crime. Especially serious is it if you are subjected to violence or other physical abuse. But one of the most raw and offensive things we can imagine is rape and other forms of sexualized violence. It hits our most intimate sphere in a degrading way. Women who are subjected to rape and other forms of sexual violence must not only tolerate violence and terror during the course of the act, many must also live with long-lasting physical and psychological adverse effects of the assault. We know that today there are a lot of women who are afraid to go out alone in the evening. The fear of being attacked reduces their freedom of movement. We also know that there are many women living in relationships where the fear of violence – and often sexualized violence – from the partner makes them live in more or less constant fear that they often hide from the outside world. In some cases, it's so bad that it affects the quality of life. What are we that society can do with this situation? Of course, the most important thing is to prevent abuse. For every single assault that can be prevented, we spare a woman an offensive, violent or threatening experience. Of course, there are no simple answers or solutions to this problem, but for all other crimes this type of crime must also be combated by a set of instruments. I believe that we must follow two main strategies: We need to put in place measures to prevent abuse, i.e. prevention. In addition, we must take action after the action has taken place. These include criminal responses and assistance and assistance to the woman who has been subjected to the offence. It is of great importance that society reacts to the attackers and that women be treated in a way that minimises the adverse effects of the attack. Later this year, we will have a review of the provisions of the Criminal Code relating to the suspension of the sexual offence commission, where we have the opportunity to take the necessary steps to strengthen the legal position of women in these kinds of cases. Rape is the most serious crime, next after killing, in our society. Rape is a social problem that unfortunately is not of a new date. But for criminal justice, morality matters in the form and extent that we have today are a relatively new subject. It's not more than 10-15 years. If we look at the crime statistics of the Central Bureau of Statistics and the reception of rape at the Oslo Medical Watch, it shows that two out of three reports of rape are being passed. 15 pst. of all notifications ending in a conviction. 24 pst. of the cases of rape brought before the courts, shall end in acquittal. Half of those who come to the rape ward at Oslo Medical Watch report the rape. Every year more than 10,000 women are treated by the health care system for the physical damage caused to them by husbands and cohabitants. In addition, all those who do not dare to see a doctor, even if they have a significant injury. There's every reason to believe that the numbers here are very high. A Swedish public investigation shows that more than 90 pst. by all rapes are never reported. I've looked at numbers from a Finnish scope study that shows that 40 pst. by all adult Finnish women have been the victims of physical or sexual violence or violence on the part of men after they have reached the age of 15. 20 pst. had experienced it in the last year. And then 52 pst. by all adult Finnish women have been victims of sexual harassment. 22 pst. by all married or cohabiting Finnish women have been the victims of physical or sexual violence or violence on the part of the partner. In Norway, we do not have a comparable and comprehensive scope study on violence against women. One of the Workers' Party's proposals today is therefore that, in line with several of our neighbouring countries, we need to get a separate and good, comprehensive scope survey that seriously monitors this problem. This interference shall mainly focus on the role of police and prosecution authorities in criminal and moral matters. In recent years, it has focused on the ability of police and prosecution authorities to deal with these kinds of cases, including the state itself. I think there is reason to give a special tribute to the National Attorney General Tor-Aksel Busch, who, one year ago, set up a working group to investigate the ability of police and prosecution authorities to handle rape reports. The background to this work is precisely the figures in crime statistics. The working group shall examine individual cases and carry out a check and review of the police investigation into the rape. Have the police been good at securing evidence along the way? Has it been too long since the rape was reported, until the police began investigating the rape? Has the report of rape been assessed at the place of employment, or has it been subject to strict evidence requirements? There are, of course, just many of the same issues that the report from the Nordic Women's University has documented in a very perceptive way. The group set up by the Advocate General assesses whether the police and the prosecutor are in the right place when the choice is between bringing an action and bringing an action for rape. We are many who respond to the outcome of the work of the working group, because we know that there is a great deal that can be done to change the impression that crime statistics give us, that it may seem to be of little use to report a rape. This impression is also well supported by the recently submitted project report, which I referred to from the Women's University Nord. In the autumn of 1997, the Nordic Women’s University launched an investigation project on the legal status and follow-up of women and children exposed to sexual abuse. The aim was to provide a dossier which could provide a basis for improvements in the legal status and follow-up of women and children. Studies from our three northernmost counties show that there are some major differences in how these cases are dealt with. This applies between police districts, but also within one and the same police district. The investigation reflects the individual's commitment and effort, and the same could be said of the prosecution. This means that the overall treatment – as the investigators see it – is largely dependent on individuals and coincidental. That is when I ask myself the question: do we not at the same time have a serious legal security problem for women who are exposed to such serious abuses in our country? According to the report from the Nordic Women's University, the optimal solution lies in a team work, a team that also has to include the one who will later act on the matter. Finally, I hope that today we can have a constructive debate on an important issue affecting very many women in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1026	The report from the Nordic Women's University was handed over to the Minister of Justice at a meeting in the Department on 26 October 1998, which also met the project staff. In that meeting, the Minister of Justice stated that the Nordic Women’s University has highlighted important issues and that the results of the report will be used in further work to improve the treatment of sexual abuse. It is important to strengthen competence in this type of case at all stages of the process chain. Initially, I would like to highlight that the fight against sexual abuse and sexualized violence are an important part of the general effort against violence. Combating violence and sexual abuse shall be a priority in the field of justice. Many sexual abuses are not reported. The central statistical agency assumes that the darkness rates for moral crimes in Norway, according to judgment, are high. You can understand that many victims don't want to go on with one thing. The reasons for that are many. Victims experience the assault as being personally highly burdensome and taboo, regardless of how it is assumed that public authorities handle such cases. Sexual abuse against children poses specific challenges for the police and the prosecution authority. In order to combat crime effectively, it is necessary for the police to know what is happening. It is therefore necessary that rapes and other sexual assaults — and attempts at it — be reported. It is also important that the police have sufficient competence to follow up. But we know that sexual assaults are difficult to investigate and get corrected. For many victims it is a heavy burden to reconstruct the event, especially during a main negotiation. Infringements shall be proved. In several things, words are against words. Often, there is no one other than the perpetrator and the victim present at the time of the crime. I am very concerned about making the investigation as effective as possible, developing the police's ability to secure technical evidence and putting the prosecution authority as best as possible to obtain evidence in the relevant cases. It will also benefit the court responsible for carrying out the assessments of evidence. However, I would like to point out the independence of the Court of Justice in relation to the assessment of evidence. It is my position that we must work to further increase the number of cases that have been set up, with a view to judging where the conditions are present. This applies to the whole country, and not just to the three northernmost states. Persons who are sexually assaulted must not give up reporting such an infringement. I want to work for greater professionalism at all stages of the investigation. There have been several developments here. This development must continue. This is a priority of the Government. In this context, the report of the University of Women of the North is a useful contribution. Action has already been taken in the northernmost police districts to improve the conditions pointed out in the report. Among other things, the time between the request for a hearing for an enforcement decision is reduced. Rules have now been introduced on the time limit for the implementation of judicial hearings and observations following the entry into force of the new rule on hearings on 1 November 1998. The Government has appointed a State Secretary Group with the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of Justice as participating departments. This group shall investigate violence and abuse against women, including sexual assault and prostitution, and provide an action plan with measures to strengthen the fight against this type of crime. The proposals in the report of the University of Women of the North will be part of the work of the State Secretary Group and will be carefully assessed. It also concerns the proposal to set up a sample to investigate a trial scheme with a regional unit for investigation and prosecution in cases of sexual assault and family violence. From the Ministry of Justice, we will organise a seminar for the three northernmost states with relevant actors as participants, in order to further address the issue raised by the report. It will – I suppose – in itself be a contribution to focusing on the fight against violence and assault against women. The proposals will be dealt with in an overall context with other proposals in the forthcoming action plan to be made by this State Secretary's Committee. I would also like to point out that in the above-mentioned work we also have contact with the Riksadvokat, who is responsible for prioritizing and organising investigations of this type of case. As the interpellant pointed out, the Advocate General has appointed an internal working party to examine, inter alia, the matter. the quality of the investigation into rape cases. If the group finds the basis for this, it will make proposals for action and improvements. This work is in progress, and I would like to await the review and assessment of the National Attorney to see if it provides a basis for going in with specific efforts. The issues raised here were also discussed at an idea meeting on 15 February, with more input and ideas for the preparation of the action plan. We aim to present this action plan in June. I would also like to highlight the work at the Police College and Kripos related to the strengthening of competences and the development of acute competence. This is also to be taken into account by the police in the three northernmost states. Let me mention other measures that are in progress or that will come into this field: Firstly, the high school of police now provides good basic training in sexual assaults. School students receive a basic introduction to the laws, receipt of notification, questioning, traceability and medical examination, as well as the work of various departments in criminal matters. Since 1992, the police high school has conducted its own follow-up training course in the investigation of sexual abuse. 295 officials and women from all over the country have participated in these courses. In 1997, this offer was further expanded by a submerged stage II price, which makes them even better equipped to investigate such cases. Secondly, the Criminal Police Centre has developed a specific top expertise in the investigation of sexual assaults and otherwise assists the police in specific cases. Kripos assists in training and enhancing competence in the field. The establishment of a central DNA register at Kripos in 1997 is also very important. In addition to DNA testing in specific cases, the registry will provide an overview of past convictions in such cases. From 1997-98, Kripos has proposed the introduction of DNA profiles for known perpetrators. The prosecution authority must decide whether the DNA profile of previous convictions should also be included. In cases with an unknown perpetrator, but where you've secured technical evidence, the registry could provide valuable help. DNA tests are known as 100 pst. Sure. The registry will also be able to strengthen the legal certainty of a suspect by allowing early DNA data to exclude a suspect. The DNA registry will be of the greatest importance in the long term. The development in this area is being reviewed by, for example: In my opinion, it is increasingly possible to provide a basis for assessment and evidence in the specific cases. At the end of December 1998, the Advocate General sent out a circular — ‘DNA registration’ — concerning the registration of DNA profiles under the new provisions of the Public Prosecutor’s Instructions which have now entered into force. Thirdly, it is important to strengthen the victim's legal protection. However, legal protection means something far more than obtaining a conviction. A number of measures have been implemented in recent years, both to improve legal protection for victims and to provide a better basis for police work. Legal rights to aid lawyers and under certain conditions free legal aid are fundamental and important principles in support of insults in rape cases – the possibility of obtaining the right to compensation for victims of violence as well. Security is a fundamental welfare factor. There's been a lot of effort on the reinforced protection of victims of crime. The possibility of imposing a visitor ban is an important measure in this respect. The right to further information, such as the withdrawal of charges or the release of sighted persons from custody, is also of great importance for offended persons. As mentioned above, it is important for the police and the courts to ensure good technical evidence. The reception of rape in the Municipality of Oslo marked ten years of activity in 1996. Since then, several rape receptions have been developed. This will help to ensure evidence at an early stage, which is often crucial for the conviction of this type of case. Fourthly, a pilot project involving crime victims’ counselling offices has been launched in some police districts, including in Tromsø, where specific victims of violence and the victims of moral crimes will be able to obtain help, support and guidance on how to proceed when they have been subjected to abuse. Fifthly, I would also like to mention that the sexual offence committee has been subjected to the entire moral chapter of the Penal Code, which was also covered by the interpellant. The committee's suspension has now been at the hearing and the hearing opinions are being processed. I want to make an odelsting proposal for the autumn. I cannot prejudge the conclusions of this work, but it will give Stortinget a broad opportunity to review the law in this important field. In this context, of course, I would like to look at the possibilities of strengthening the fight against sexual abuse. In my opinion, both implemented and forthcoming measures on the protection of victims of crime, through changes in laws, enhanced competences or new techniques, will help to strengthen the protection of victims of rape and help to bring more cases to justice.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1070	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. Those who support the report from the Nordic Women's University have a lot of experience, both as a state attorney and as an investigator. I am very pleased that the content of the project will be included in the further work in the department. As I know, there is no reason to doubt the professional nature of this report either. Only one suspects that the report provides a picture of a situation that is correct, in my opinion, there is a very strong reason to react. That is why I am pleased that the Minister of Justice will also incorporate the report into the work of the State Secretary's Committee, and that the quality of the work done on these issues needs to be looked at. I think there is reason to stress that it is important that the police and prosecution authorities follow up this kind of case in a proper, serious way. The Labour Party believes that it is important for the Minister of Justice to follow up on this serious social problem and look at how we, as a large community, can prevent these kinds of problems. It is true that the most dangerous place for women today is not Karl Johan a late night hour, but in fact their own home. Both politicians and the media are the main focus today on the visible street violence – it also concerns different types of shops and banks. This, of course, upsets most of us. But I think we also have a responsibility to remember that domestic violence, against women and children, has a large scale and is difficult to attack. I also think it is positive that the police officer in Oslo wants to prioritise these matters higher. A rape can lead to irreparable harm in a human life, and the injury will not be less if the rapist goes free. It may be that when we discuss rape in our society, we have been able to touch together both morality, justice and care for the individual. It is a very strong signal when lawyers actually advise young girls not to report rape that has happened at a party. We also remember the debate about skirt length, and about women who went on their own. I think there's a reason to ask, who's to blame for a rape? I also think that there is reason, after seeing some of the judges in our own legal system, to remind you of who is actually the victim in a rape case. I do not believe that the solution to the problem of rape is to reduce neither the legal certainty of men nor the freedom of women. We must strive never to judge innocent people. We have to want the freedom [[President clubs]] I'll come back to the rest later, President.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1087	The President expects the representative, Mr Bekkelem Orheim, to take up the proposals she has made and to be distributed among his representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1090	Thank you for the reminder, President. Of course, I am addressing the proposals that I have made on behalf of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1095	The representative, Bekkelem Orheim, has drawn up the proposals she herself mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1098	Let me state that I fully agree with the interpellant that there is reason to respond to the type of documentation provided by this report – and we have done so. It appears from the report that it is preliminary and that it will be further processed by the researchers. In the follow-up to this special report, which I explained that we will be going through a seminar, we will be given the opportunity for a further dialogue on this. I also agree that it is important in this situation, where we have for some time had a strong focus on street violence and the seriousness of it, to take with us the perspective that a large amount of violence takes place in the hidden – within the four walls of the home. I want to commend that interpellant for having contributed to it through this interpellation. The statement I gave shows that a lot has been done, and that a lot is being done, and we are going to bring together the threads of a national action plan that will be ready for the summer. I think it is then natural to bring together all the good proposals, including those that the interpellant has traveled today, in the work and the processing that will take place until this action plan is presented. With that I have probably also given an indication of how I think it will be natural that the Storting treats this. But, of course, it's the Storting's own business.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1109	The fight against violence is one of the most important areas of action in the fight against crime – not least this is violence and abuse against women and children. Sexualized violence and child abuse have been given special attention by former governments, from the current government and from a unanimous judiciary. The crime of rape is a serious criminal act. Rape is in a special position in relation to other acts of violence, as rape affects women in general. The statistics show that two out of three notifications are being completed. In general, you only expect 15 pst. of all notifications ending in a conviction. The proceedings in the judicial system are long. A large number of rapes are not reported, it's great darkness. I believe that this clearly shows that the legal protection of victims of rape is too weak. There has been a common political desire for greater efforts in this area. I refer you to a similar interpellation debate a year ago. We shall not now anticipate the discussions in connection with the follow-up to the suspension of the sexual offence commission, and we are still waiting for the Government's proposals on this matter. But I would like to stress that it is essential for the legal protection of the victim of the rape to have several rapes reported. It is discouraging to record that, based on experience, lawyers advise women not to go into legal proceedings. In particular, I think the treatment of the victim in the trial is of great importance. There is a need to focus more on the development of rape receptions where evidence is quickly secured, and on their own responsibility for morality at each police chamber. Hopefully, the review of rape cases will contribute to an increase in the number of organised and convicted cases. This has been the ambition of previous governments, and I am glad that the level of ambition has not been lowered. Last year, it was suggested that there is naturally more severe punishment for the rape of the victim than for the rape of the victim. This I will take a great distance from. The starting point of the Labour Party is that rape is equally serious whether it occurs in the event of an attack or in private circumstances, yes, some would argue that in the latter case, rape may actually be the result of a long-term abuse. The Oslo police have recently pointed out the great darkness in the violence that is taking place in the homes. As far as punishment is concerned in general, I point out that a unanimous judiciary over several years and in various contexts has stated that the punishment for violence against children, moral crimes and gross violence should be intensified. There should therefore be no need for representatives of political parties to express the same position. When it comes to child abuse and their legal protection, I also point out that last year, in the light of the decision of a unanimous judiciary, the Stortinget adopted amendments to the penal code that would improve the legal protection of children – that the limitation period in criminal proceedings should not be counted until the day the victim reaches the age of 18 years, that emphasis should be given in an aggravating direction if violence has been committed against children under 14 years of age, and that child questioning should take place within two weeks of the notification of the criminal offence to the police. I assume that the government will evaluate the effects of these changes later. Once again, I would like to remind you that we are waiting for the Government's follow-up to the suspension of the Sex Crime Commission, where in a broader context we are given the opportunity to assess legislation and other measures to combat sexualised violence.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1130	Of course, it is important that rapists are arrested and convicted. The Progress Party will therefore support all measures that can contribute to enhancing the competence of police and prosecution authorities. It will have two positive consequences: firstly, it increases the possibility of a guilty rapist being convicted, and, at the same time, it increases the possibility of an innocent person being acquitted. Of course, it is as important in rape cases as in other cases to avoid murder. The most positive thing that has happened to solve rape crimes is, of course, the establishment of the DNA register, which the Council of State was involved in. There the Progress Party has been a proponent for many years before this really got into the right track. For the victims of the rape, it is particularly important that those who are guilty and convicted receive a punishment that is reasonable and fair. I've talked to so many rape victims who feel like a co-morbidity and an additional burden that the rapist escapes with as unreasonably low punishments as you get today. It is right, as the representative of Bjørnstad said, that a unanimous judiciary, both during this great-scale period and during the previous great-scale period, has repeatedly pointed out that it is desirable and preferably that rape offenders be judged on average more severely. This has led to an increase in average penalties over the last three to four years from one year to nine months to two years and one month. It is insignificant in my opinion. It is late in the court system to take signals from legislators. Therefore, it is all the more sad that the Workers' Party has shown itself so totally unwilling to take a grip on this situation. Every time the Storting has proposed to do what legislators can do, namely to increase the minimum and maximum penalties, the Labour Party has voted against, even when the Progress Party proposed it last. The only thing you can do if you're dissatisfied with court practices is, of course, make it impossible for the courts to judge so mildly by setting higher minimum penalties. I hope that the next time it comes up such a suggestion, and it will come, the Workers' Party will be more willing to take the only grip that really monks, and make sure that the minimum penalty is two or three times higher than it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1143	I'm glad that the representative Karita Bekkemelm Orheim has addressed this interpellation, because it's important that it focuses on and creates transparency on this issue. It's a question of which it's not least important that we men engage in, so that there won't be a lady's cause, a woman's cause, in the Stortinget. It is important that we, who belong on the ‘wrong side’ of the crime scene, also say clearly that this is unacceptable. In connection with the fact that I belong to a religious community, I also want to express great sorrow and sadness at the fact that even in this context, in religious communities, things are being completely unacceptable in this field. It shall and should not be done. That's why it's important that we get things up here, too, so that we can make it clear that this is unacceptable. A combination of mental - health and sexual, erotic activity is nothing but an assault in God's name! Because of this, people will feel especially enraged and offended, creating a bad sense of guilt and shame. And then when this is to be researched and tested, these people experience in addition to the problems and difficulties they've had in their everyday life, that it's so difficult when they get into the justice system. They feel that they are not taken seriously. It is then important, as the Council of State has now stated, to follow up on measures that could benefit the victims of sexual abuse, which also act as a preventative measure, in order to minimise such abuses in the future. In particular, I would like to mention the work being done to increase professionalism at all stages of the investigation. The rule on hearings which entered into force on 1 November 1998 is of great importance in order to shorten the period between the request for a hearing and the execution. It is also of great importance to release long waiting time. I'm glad that the Council of State says so clearly that the Government will look at the area of sexual assault and family violence in an overall context. There's a lot of expertise here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1155	Being subjected to sexualized violence or regular domestic violence leads to strong mental stress. The burden is not reduced by long waiting time before the court proceedings, by a lack of credibility in the proceedings, or by the fact that the case is in fact settled before it reaches that point. The current report from the North Women's University, to which Mr. Orheim has referred, is truly a frightening reading. At the same time, it demonstrates a clear need for further research in this area. It is therefore commendable that the report is available and that it is incorporated into the Government’s action plan. This kind of violence against women and children is rarely reported, and the perpetrators are rarely convicted. I noticed that the entire 80 pst. the offences against children under 10 years of age are largely caused by the position of the evidence. Corresponding figures for rape were alarming 77 p.m. Of course, such numbers do not encourage a review. Without a strong and professional reception apparatus, we can't move on. Several have to dry to report the infringements. Then we need to upgrade the support offered to women who are subjected to sexual abuse or regular abuse, so that they get courage and strength to go through legal proceedings, while at the same time getting help to process both the mental and the physical stresses. In order to increase the number of convictions, the Right also assesses whether the police are more likely to report demonstrable offenders where the victims do not themselves dare or will go to such a step or withdraw the notification. Of course, a well-functioning auxiliaries are a prerequisite for this. On the other hand, the judiciary must ensure rapid, sound judicial procedures, and the police must have both the resources and the competence to do their part of the job. The report has highlighted major challenges in terms of the high level of accommodation and the lack of willingness in the field to investigate these issues. I see the need to build up regional and central competences and better coordination of this investigation, and it would be right if the competences built up centrally and regionally become a resource base that can be used to increase competence across the country. The report points to the fact that the introduction of the two-institutional system has resulted in additional procedural time. This is an additional burden for the victim, both in the waiting period and at the trial itself. The challenges that exist in relation to the treatment of the victims of such a system, I hope we can come back on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1172	The attitudes of society towards sexual abuse against women and children and the priorities of providing both legal certainty and help give women and children signals about what they are worth, and until now efforts have been low priorities. However, the measures that are now coming have come after long-term work from large parts of the women’s movement. Sexual assaults against women and children have a major impact on society and on those against whom violence has been perpetrated. That violence has something to do with both power, and it has something to do with gender. That is why work on real equality is important to prevent sexual violence. Rape is an act that will characterize the one who is raped, for years, during her lifetime if she – because it is most often a woman – does not get help. Both for children and adults, it's about reactions to losing the right to rule over their own bodies, to be invaded, taken power over and humiliated at all. Without help, we find them again in the auxiliary unit, but with other diagnoses, such as disability, drug problems, anxiety problems, as prostitutes, and with various unclear disorders. Being believed when a woman finally reports abuse or rape is absolutely essential for her to be able to grasp her life again. To be believed, police and prosecution authorities must have sufficient knowledge so that matters can be brought to justice. The report from the Nordic Women's University has to be taken seriously, because it shows that morals have a low record, and that there is not enough knowledge in relation to witness psychology or investigation methods. Neither is the multidisciplinary effort good enough. These are complicated evidence issues, because the perpetrator – and most often it is a man – and the victim is often known or in a family. Often it is that the victims take on all blame and shame. It's a good idea to try out a regional unit for investigation and prosecution of sexual assaults and violence. At the same time, however, it is necessary to provide expertise and to ensure that it is used systematically in the rest of the country. The competence clearly shown by both the Bergens police and the Oslo police must be given to others. And it might not be a coincidence that just the Oslo Police and the Bergens Police show that they now have a competence, because I think that has happened through a very good cooperation, among other things. between the emergency victims of rape. The report reveals that there are too many cases that are being blamed, and it is serious. But it is equally serious that there are prejudices in the judiciary, and that these convictions make the victims have no legal certainty. The booklet of the working party women has been chattered about in the media, and I have to admit that it has been a bit clumsy. But what's the scandal? Well, the scandal is that the prejudices still exist.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1189	Sexual assaults against children and women are among the most serious crimes we have. Nevertheless, we see that it is difficult to address some systematic abuses. There are, of course, several reasons for this, not least that there is still a taboo area, at least in those cases where we focus on the misuse of trust that takes place at home and within other social institutions. Also in the political environment, these are areas that have been underfocused, which may have more explanations. The more important it is that the interpellant tries to focus on this area and how the public auxiliaries deal with it. In the last year's budget, the Workers' Party pointed to a number of different changes that could strengthen the auxiliaries we have. It turns out that there are women and children who are mainly subjected to abuse, and that happens especially at home. This deprives women and children of fundamental human rights, which a welfare society cannot accept just because it happens at home. The Labour Party has proposed setting up its own selection to review issues related to violence against children and women. Then we're going to hope for a stronger commitment in this area also from the Government's side, and that we get the Women's Violence Selection in place as soon as possible. Some of the most important things we can contribute to in these cases are knowledge and attitudes. Public authorities in contact with such acts of violence must be able to provide a sound and reliable basis for further follow-up to the practice of violence and relief measures where necessary. This should include, inter alia: to impart to the courts knowledge of violence against women. The establishment of specific mechanisms to ensure the competence of the courts in such cases may be a solution which should be further assessed. Furthermore, it is important to strengthen cooperation between the police, health services, child protection and social authorities in order to provide children in violent families with the best possible follow-up services. We need to strengthen the procedures related to the collection of evidence among health professionals and the police. Developing the offer of treatment for the offender may also help prevent further abuse, and it is important that men engage in this work. It is a problem that some people use masculinity for oppression and violence rather than protection. Therefore, it is important that boys get in touch with healthy human roles, and that men make it visible that this is not a quality for men, on the contrary. In that way, this debate is a little bit of a boost. Let me stress that the Minister of Justice's statement showed that there are positive developments in several of these areas. The police officer in Oslo stressed yesterday that the quick solutions do not always last. The call for more police and punishment, as Jan Simonsen has already been up and forth in this debate, is not the final solution. There is also a need for careful prevention work here. This is why it is also wrong when the centre and right-hand side of the budget cut off prevention for the current year. Let's hope for a better result for next year in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1206	This interpellation addresses a serious social problem, and to a very large extent this is about postures. We could also call it culture. That's why it's so important that the signals from this room are very clear. Sexual abuse has not been socially acceptable. I want to point to a couple of relationships. Very many complaints under Section 198 of the Criminal Code, which relates to abuse of the position, are dismissed because of the position of the witness. It is therefore natural that a change to this paragraph is taken into account, so that it is better directed towards what is happening today. Another condition is the limitation period for such cases, which today is 10 years. In matters relating to sexual abuse in connection with the abuse of a position, we see many examples that the processes or mechanisms of victims are very similar. The following happens: For several years, the victim does not dare to talk to anyone about what has happened, and actually feels that this was their fault. Then it goes on for a few years, and then it turns out that maybe it wasn't their fault anyway, and then you're gonna talk about it. Nevertheless: The road until the sacrifice is ripe to report is long, he is evil, and he is difficult. And when one finally reaches the point where one is able to report the relationship, it's unfortunately in very many cases too late, because then the limitation period has come in. Therefore, an extension of the limitation period for such cases should also be considered.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1215	There's a lot of darkness when it comes to sexual assault on women and children. Today we know that such matters are not a priority and are not first on the list of police and prosecution authorities. The 1997 FAFO Life Year Review revealed that one in five power cases occur at home. And by this power, there are usually close relationships between the victim and the perpetrator of the abuses, either family or close friends. I've previously asked the Minister of Justice what does the public system do to ensure evidence of electoral cases. Today, there is no requirement for health professionals to provide evidence of contact with a doctor or other health professional. At Oslo Medical Service they keep the findings they make, for two months, without the victim having decided to report. The background is the active contribution of female workers at the Oslo Medical Watch. When we know that more than 100,000 women are treated each year by the health care system for the physical injuries caused to them by eczemas, sambas or random men, this is a high figure. There are broken-down women who don't know their poor advice, who come to public health services to get help. In that case, it should also be required to ensure the evidence and evidence that these women can proceed to the prosecution authority in some cases that evidence is certain of their cause. The obligations of health professionals in such cases should also be taken into account in order to facilitate the evidence of these victims. The human role selection expressed in its final report, NOU 1991: 3: ‘The so-called private violence must be more focused. The main characteristic of this violence is that it is so invisible, and the invisibility allows violence to continue.’ This question tells how important it is for the government to appoint a public women's election selection to look at the invisible power that goes out on women and children, thus giving it a public face. My question is: will the Council of State appoint such a women's election selection in line with the request of the Judicial Committee? It is important for the wider debate today. The Labour Party's women's movement is also concerned that crisis centres are both strengthened economically and are being built across the whole country. The existing centres make a huge effort for women and children seeking protection and help. Therefore, they should not go around begging for money. Police are also an important factor in the fight against sexual and other abuses against women and children. They are usually the first to be called when things happen. Strengthening education in this area and making it easier for both women and men to be involved in the police force will help these victims in their situation. That a woman gets to talk to a female police officer will open up to security and trust.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1237	First I want to say that I think it is very positive that there are so many men who have participated in this debate today. I will also praise the representative of the Christian People's Party, who puts words on a theme that we know is very sensitive in the Christian environments. When we discuss violence issues against women, we will not go past our crisis centres either. It is important that we build and strengthen crisis centres in all parts of our country. It is also important that we manage to ensure the most equal offer across the country, and here we know that there are great differences between municipalities. The Labour Party believes that it is important that we draw up a comprehensive proposal for relief measures that may work for a time-limited period. It is important that these measures include the professional assistance of psychologists and lawyers, the help of housing and the provision of education and training. As a society, we need to take a broader look at various issues related to violence against women and children. I also think that the proposal for a test scheme with a regional unit in our three northernmost states is worth looking at, and I hope that the Council of State will continue to work on these issues. But when we discuss this problem, it's also important that we think about children's legal certainty. We need to be strengthened, among others. the child’s position in the hearing. Finally, I have a question. I don't know enough about this field, but I'm trying: as far as I know, the DNA register has little scope. That is why I would like to ask what is actually being done by the Ministry so that this register can be used properly and properly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1250	I agree with the speakers who have said that this matter is also about attitudes and culture, and that it is in itself important to have a public searchlight on and a public debate on these issues in the various contexts where it is relevant. It's with this as with the troll in the adventures, it cracked when it came out into the light. Issues have been raised about both the criminal framework and criminal procedural issues related to this type of case. They will be assessed in connection with the bill that I announced will come to the harvest. There are also issues of sexual abuse related to the abuse of a position. With regard to selection issues, the Minister of Justice and the Government have already appointed a State Secretary’s Committee, which draws up an action plan. In that action plan, the many good proposals made in the report on which the interpellation was based, and in other words here in the debate, will be taken into account and evaluated. It is also the question of whether, in the course of the extension of this work, a women's violence election is to be established. There are several processes running here. This action plan will bring together the threads. Then we will have a review of the criminal aspects of the case for the autumn. And then the action plan will clarify how the various measures should be followed up and in what order. Finally, let me refer to what I said in my main post regarding the DNA registry. I agree that it's in its infancy beginning, but I think it's going to have great significance gradually. I would like to point out that the lawyer recently sent out a circular on the follow-up to the DNA registration in line with the new provisions of the prosecution directive that have now come into force. The Ministry will also monitor the follow-up to this important work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1261	Sir. President! Can I get the word for a public misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1268	Yes, under very great doubt, the President will allow Astrid Marie Nistad to have the floor for an open misunderstanding, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1271	As the President knows, the doubt usually comes to the fore! I would like to draw the attention of the Council of State to the fact that, through the setting up of the Ministry of Justice's budget, the Storting asked for a women's election selection to be set up for information.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1278	The President is not sure there was an open misunderstanding. The President assumes that the Council of State knows what was agreed here in the Grand Duchy during the budgetary procedure. The debate on substance is closed. So 3 is going to be over. [[Opinion on proposals, see page 2322]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1298	There are many reasons to address issues related to the black economy — the interpellence could be targeted at several government councils and covered several industries. When I have chosen the restaurant industry and the Minister of Justice, it is because of the scale of criminal activities and the link with much violence associated with this particular industry. A good part is organized crime, and it's an industry where it's easy to cheat on numbers and goods and exploit people. Parts of it are characterised as the pill rat. This is not a matter for the Value Commission, it must not be reduced to a question of morality. Only laws, regulations, increased control and penalties are helpful. Although such measures are not popular, they are imperative if we want to clean up the industry. There are wild conditions in parts of the restaurant industry. How serious the criminal business is, no one has a full overview of it. The serious are being outrun by the unprofessional and the criminal. Re-establishment means that it is virtually impossible to survive legally. Daily, restaurant guests become ignorant participants in criminal activities. Many employees are on slave contracts. Employees as well as their organisations and the serious part of the industry have had enough and will clean up. The industry has also been a priority in the government's work on the black economy. The virtually illegal conditions in the restaurant industry do not just exist in Oslo. It concerns crime in a broad sense with networks and branches of several cities, both in Norway and abroad. ‘A brutal criminal environment prevails in a large part of Oslo’s cities, where black money, prostitution, the cynical exploitation of employees, illegal gambling, fraud and the sale of weapons, alcohol and drugs are commonplace.’ This characteristic was made by two journalists a few years ago. The question is whether it has improved. I'm afraid it's getting worse! 17 pst. violence is committed in relation to the scene. Training of door guards is an action to be undertaken. Hopefully, it will reduce some of the violence associated with gift sites, but will not play a role in the illegal activity and violence associated with the settlement of gangs involved in organised crime. The industry is tired of its bad reputation. With this interpellation, I will focus on the business and get an assessment of whether it has been done enough by the authorities to whitewash the industry. So far, there is much evidence that current laws and regulations are being broken, and that the control apparatus has insufficient resources to monitor and implement measures when necessary. The state needs to address this in a completely different way from what is now done, and one should look for more creativity and more money to discover and stop this business. There is no reason to conceal that much of the illegal activity concerns ethnic restaurants, but it must not overshadow illegalities from the other and more traditional part of the industry. In any case, illegal business is a threat to serious enterprises that are under strong pressure to make laws and regulations. The overcapacity we have had in the capital for many years is also a contributing factor in the fact that it is easy to hide illegal activities. It should be in everyone's interest to reduce overcapacity. Likely, every year the country and the municipality lose billions due to the avoidance and fraud of taxes and taxes — money that could have gone into building up and maintaining welfare goods, rather than cutting down and cutting down. The Tax Directorate estimates that the black economy in general has doubled in recent years, and considers it to be between 110 and 130 billion kroner. So that's pretty much the amount we're talking about. According to the Labour Inspectorate, half of Oslo's restaurants and cafes break laws and regulations. They do not pay taxes, holiday pay, pay, or are not registered with the Labour Inspectorate. Enterprises do not respond to instructions from the Labour Inspectorate, and are usually bankrupt in criminal proceedings. The owners have run away with the money. The creditors pay for the fun. Strawmen are in place in the same second. Neither employees nor guests mark the bankruptcy nor change of ownership. Workers are exploited in the most serious way, and many are forced to participate in illegal activities. Employees, especially foreigners, are exposed to harassment, threats, and they are being pressured. They don't get sick pay. 14 hours work day for lice pay is not a rare unit. Many do not dare to organise themselves, and the Hotel and Restaurant Workers Association has 500-600 of them as secret members. Trustees are threatened and must have a secret address and telephone number. I have previously addressed illegal labour immigration and called for action against ethnic restaurant workers who are engaged in slave contracts in Norway. There are extensive violations of pay and working conditions and thus a breach of the residence permit. They may come in as an ethnic cook, but work in the dishes as cheap and loyal labour, often 12-14 hours a day, seven days a week at low wages – if they get at all someone. They are housed on a narrow cable. If they say something, complain, it's right out of the country. They don't have time to learn Norwegian. But the government has promised to do something about this, and I look forward to it. Black work is flourishing. The trade union suggests 10,000 black enthusiasts in Oslo. There are 930 serving places with a gift certificate. In addition, there may only be about 100 unregistered companies in Oslo. Our control authorities are completely dependent on tips from guests, employees and competitors to overcome this. Finally, I would like to stress that a clean-up in the food industry will make Oslo and other cities safer. Employees will have better jobs and the public will receive more revenue. Most importantly, it is the organized criminal activity, because it reproduces crime – as is known: violence cultivates violence. If we are to get rid of the obscenity, we need to gain more knowledge and competence. It is reassuring that the Tax Directorate feels that there is little interest in research on these issues. The government should consider imposing wholesale notification obligations and breweries to municipalities with regard to the quantities of alcohol traded. It is currently difficult to verify the figures given. This will be an important contribution to cleaning up the industry. It's a fact that a lot of people get paid black. You also have to have black income. The authorities are responsible for reducing the possibility of black turnover. The Government should also consider introducing a system of labelling bottles used for the rendering of beer, wine and spirits. This will make it difficult to sell beer from the store to the tipping point. There is little risk of doing so today. The same applies to direct purchases from the Vinmonopole and smuggled wine and spirits. This reduces large amounts of money from the community fund. Such measures will significantly reduce black sales and will most likely lead to the closure of some unprofessional sites. Control is time-consuming and difficult, and therefore more resources need to be deployed. It is easy to identify rules and controls, but often unpopular. In this case, I think it is imperative to deal with the growing illegal business in the restaurant industry. Many serving sites are established primarily to hide illegal activities. We have to put an end to this. It's already gone too far. I bring up the proposals from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1339	The representative, Inger Lise Husøy, has drawn up the proposals that she herself referred to, and which are distributed in its seats.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1342	I share the concern expressed by the representative Husøy in his interpellation and in his very thought-provoking contributions. I'm actually of the opinion that this is also about morality, as well as about laws, rules and control. The restaurant industry has been associated to varying degrees with various types of crime, in particular the operation of a number of restaurants. The Ministry of Justice has been particularly concerned about this, and in recent years different measures have been put in place to clean this up. This work must remain at a very high level in terms of priority, scope and quality and must be continuously followed up. It is important to stick to the long-term perspective, for example. because immediate results and effects of work are often difficult to measure. Infringements in the industry are widespread. In the case of reports of criminal offences, these show a decline in 1998 compared to 1997 both in Oslo and on a national basis. In Oslo, notifications and infringements of VAT legislation show an increase from 52 crimes in 1997 to 71 in 1998. However, we must bear in mind the fact that the notifications within these main groups will largely depend on the control and notification activities of other agencies. The number will therefore vary, depending on the actions and the volume of control they have carried out during the reporting period. On a national basis, there has been a reduction of 5 pst. in the number of crimes reported under the VAT Act in 1998 compared with 1997. Criminal matters may also be identified in the context of bankruptcy and subsequent settlement. Here, too, the police will be dependent on documentation. The Ministry of Justice’s work against competition crime will focus on the continuation of existing measures and on the introduction of new ones. It will take too long to address all the measures, but I will mention some of the most important ones. In their assistance to the police, Ecocrime has contributed to the introduction of a new working method in the police, with close cooperation between prosecutors and investigators, as well as particularly with regard to accounting. Furthermore, Økokrim arranges the course in, among others. investigation of bankruptcy cases and of breaches of accounting records, money laundering and confiscation, in order to increase police competence in general. The competence of police investigators has also been improved by police auditors and by the fact that tax accountants assist the police in the investigation of bankruptcy, tax and other serious financial offences. The Ministry of Justice has further appointed the Bankruptcy Council as a permanent board dealing with various questions of bankruptcy. The Council, through its publications, seminars, etc. addressed several aspects of competition criminality. The Council has focused its attention on the restaurant sector, among others. in an investigation of bankruptcy accommodation in three smaller courts and through meetings with industry organisations. Both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance and the Directorate of Taxation have for several years had guarantee schemes whereby the State enters into and guarantees funds for housing that would otherwise have been cancelled because of insufficient funds. These are some measures that contribute to the fight against this type of crime. However, there is a need for ever stronger and more effective action – I agree with the inter-pellant. The Ministry of Justice is therefore working on the evaluation of new measures. The government promoted before Christmas Ot.prp. No 26 for 1998-99, About the Law on Changes in Bankruptcy and Mortgage Law, etc. Here we put forward several changes that we believe may have an impact on the fight against competition crime, among other things. in the restaurant business. These include: suggested that 5 pst. the pledged values of the receiver of the bankruptcy shall be reserved for the settlement. This will ensure a more thorough bankruptcy process and increase opportunities for the detection of financial crime. It is a major problem today that bankruptcies are completely empty and therefore only subject to superficial treatment. The Ministry of Justice intends to send two further proposals at the hearing. These proposals will be particularly important in the event of bankruptcy in the restaurant sector. The first concerns the introduction of special decision-making procedures to ensure a thorough examination of issues relating to the resale of assets to the obligor of the bankruptcy or their related parties. The second proposal gives the resident the right to transfer rental rights together with the rest of the debtor's business. Speculation of rental rights is a well-known part of the bankruptcies in the restaurant industry. The rules for the restaurant industry are being enforced by many agencies. There are therefore several departments that have to contribute to the fight against economic crime in this sector. A committee of officials against financial crime has recently been set up, with the Ministry of Justice as the leader of the sample. This sample will help to address these kinds of coordination problems between the agencies and will be a driving force in the fight against economic crime. Economic crime in the restaurant industry is not least a problem for the industry itself. It is very unfortunate that there is a development in which law-abiding traders lose their lives in competition with those who are not law-abiding. Those who are unlawful have a competitive advantage over those who are law-abiding. It is therefore gratifying to note that the industry itself has taken an active initiative to clean up. The National Association of Travel Companies has launched the «We go too white» campaign and the campaign can have an important attitude-building effect in the coming time. Money laundering is a special area for the police. The number of Whitewashing messages to the Ecocrim unit for this purpose has increased markedly in the last few years. It is important that police and prosecution authorities are able to follow up the investigation of such cases in a qualitatively good manner. The Ministry of Justice sees a clear need for increased competence in this area. Therefore, ecocrim will conduct regional police and prosecution money laundering courses in the current year — law courses and investigations on issues based on money laundering messages from financial institutions. Anti-money laundering measures must be seen in the context of increased use of withdrawal. It is a primary objective of all profit-driven crime to deprive perpetrators of the proceeds of criminal offences. In recent years, ecocrim has conducted nationwide withdrawal courses for police and prosecution authorities, as well as representatives of Customs and Tax Administration. This is part of ensuring that the withdrawal provisions are fully applied. The Retirement Committee points out that today’s withdrawal provisions are not sufficient. Against this background, the Government promoted last year's November Ot.prp. No 8 for 1998-99, on the law on changes to the criminal law and the criminal procedure law, etc. [[withdrawal of dividends]] The police are today responsible for controlling games and lotteries. During the spring session, the government will present legislative proposals for the establishment of a lottery monitoring body that will significantly strengthen control of gambling activities. For Oslo, the rising trend of the 1990s in reported crimes against life, body and health has turned towards a decline in 1998. In 1998, 17 p.m. of the reported violence in the Oslo police district at the restaurant and others. It is raised to doubt that much of the violence in Oslo City Centre, where most of the tipping points are located, is related to alcohol use. As part of this mobilization, with the larger cities, police districts have been allocated additional earmarked funds to intensify their efforts to combat violence in the centre. These funds are in addition to resources for the regular response to the crime of violence. Oslo is especially prioritised in this context. I would also like to point out that Oslo has already followed up by increasing the number of officials in the streets. Recently, Oslo police districts have given special priority to efforts against violent crime in public places in the Oslo Centre, with major efforts during the weekends, with very good results. These are measures that involve targeted efforts by the police to be visible, both in order to prevent and to be able to intervene at an early stage in possible violence episodes. Furthermore, during the preparation of a doorwatches training/instruction scheme. This is based on the idea that doorkeepers could have an important function as a conflict solver in and around the tipping points. The local police officer must, on the basis of a concrete assessment, consider the need for background control and a requirement for course implementation. The scheme has been implemented in a number of police districts in the past, partly with good luck. In Oslo, the police chief recently sent out a pre-notification notice to 25 serving points in the center with instructions to have approved law enforcement agencies. A course programme of 25 hours has been drawn up in accordance with the National Association of Travel Companies and the Hotel and Restaurant Association. The guards will be properly checked and given a preliminary approval. They will receive a proof of identity which must be borne in a visible way. The Oslo Police District aims at requiring 50 service stations to take their order guards in 1999. The obligation to provide information requires the police, without prejudice to professional secrecy, to provide the information the municipality deems necessary for the handling of catering or sales and gift-giving matters. The obligation to notify means that, without prejudice to professional secrecy on its own initiative, the police must inform the municipality when they identify matters for which there is reason to believe that there is a significant impact on the issue of authorization. In this context, I would like to mention the work being done in the Oslo Police District, which provides for coordination of information obtained by the police regarding infringements of the alcohol law, drug trafficking or matters relating to peace and order at or at the place of supply. As a summary, I would say that in this very demanding area, high skills and considerable resources are needed to detect the black economy and other economic maladies. In my view, we are on the right track with the measures put in place or prepared, but it needs to be worked on continuously with a view to improving and improving the effectiveness of the measures, which these proposals by the Government represent.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1395	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think we agree that it is a demanding task to deal with the black economy, especially in the restaurant industry. I agree that very much is being done, and also believe that this Government will come up with further measures that prove necessary. The industry, as pointed out by the Council of State, has entered into a campaign. But the industry organizes a very small proportion of Oslo's serving sites. Those who commit international crime and other illegalities are not organised. And that's pretty raw opponents we have in that business. I would also like to say that the doorbell course was requested. It is a very good measure that the doorkeepers are going on a course. But one does not meet the mafia with doorkeepers who have been on a money laundering course! By that I mean to say that there are a lot of major, serious criminal acts going on in the back rooms and in what can be called the "underworld" in Oslo, and that we must pay great attention to it as well. But as I said, a lot has been done. The municipality has a significant responsibility here, not least to bring down the establishment in the industry. Extensive cooperation is taking place across agencies and professional organisations, such as: Cooperation forum against the black economy, which I think is very good. However, the measures are not proportionate to the serious reality that is actually out there. I believe that the authorities have been too weak, and that there is still much that can be done better – not least through a clearer prioritisation of control measures. We need to have laws and rules that make it possible to control better. The new food law is good, but it is not enough either. There is reason to fear that parts of the industry will continue to find loopholes for their illegal activities and that the authorities are running after them. It is important to be open to prejudice when discussing these things, even if control, injunctions and rules are unpopular. I believe that black sales can only be affected by intensive control and a good and up-to-date law. There is a lot that can be done within today's law. I noticed that the Council of State said that Oslo Police District will now also coordinate information provided by the police. I think there's a very need for that. I wish the Council of State could say how far that work has come, and whether it can also apply to the country around – that is, that one can see the relationship between Oslo and elsewhere in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1406	We are facing a problem of great complexity, which is being attacked in many different ways. I fully agree with the representative, Husøy, that we are far from being in target. The need to improve and improve the effectiveness of the measures also emerged from my inter-pellation response. I think we should build alliances here between the good forces that exist and that want to combat this phenomenon: the trade unions, the trade unions, the various agencies, the police – and I would also like to mention the municipal authorities. We cannot have a debate on this without mentioning what was also involved in the interpellant, that an underlying reason for this emergence and the extent of the problem is the over-establishment that has occurred in the capital. This is due to a very liberal policy regarding the establishment of new outlets, and in the case of the waiver of time for donations – exemptions have actually become normal. It is clear that on that side of the case there is also reason to take up and put the search light on when all the good forces will cooperate to meet this problem – and that will be my answer. For the sake of order: the doorkeeper courses were not a response to economic crime, but an answer to how one can offensively try to prevent conflicts that could lead to serious violence episodes in the centre bars associated with these serving sites. Otherwise, I will be allowed to come back to the questions that the interpellant raised, in my last post.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1417	A red thread in the issue of the interpellation is the link between unprofessional, illegal restaurant and various types of crime. The Justice Committee has been confirmed by the police authorities of the major cities. For the most visible crime, violence, constructive measures have proved to be effective. As the interpellant pointed out, much of the street violence in the capital takes place in relation to the tipping points. As part of the problem, the doorkeepers' behaviour is central. The perimeters that have let their guards go through the door-watching course have radically reduced the violence episodes associated with the current outdoor site. According to the regulations of Section 16 of the Service Act, the police have access to the requirement of an approved doorman. Worth noting is the practice introduced in Trondheim by providing an authorisation system for those who have successfully completed the course. In Trondheim, this measure, combined with increased uniform police personnel at the centre of the restaurants, has been shown to reduce the number of cases of violence at the time of experience, and a low threshold for police intervention. The Government’s plan of action to combat violence in public places points to Oslo Police’s plans for a mandatory door-watching course – it was the launch of the Højbråten State Council today. ‘Obligatory’ is here a keyword, because it has actually until now been in Oslo primarily the serious patios that have sent their doorkeepers on course. Now it is necessary to focus on those places where there are many incidents of violence in experience. Furthermore, it is important that one has effective sanctioning options, such as. to refuse the renewal of the roster permit for premises which are not followed up by mandatory doorstep training courses. Strong doorkeepers are undoubtedly better able to handle conflicts, reduce aggression and not least avoid discrimination. The problem of violence is, as I said earlier, the most visible part of the crime scene around the suburbs, but it only gives some of the total problem. I have highlighted the issue of violence in the article to illustrate that there are effective measures that have an impact. With regard to the other organised crime linked to the unprofessional part of the restaurant industry, the challenges are even greater, and there is a lack of sufficient, constructive intervention and action by the Government. Something needs to be done, and active measures need to be taken. The restaurant industry itself, the workers' and employers' organisations and the Municipality of Oslo are important and necessary partners. That's why I fully support the interpellant's question: What will the Council of State do to clean up the restaurant business?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1437	We have many serious players in the restaurant industry in Oslo who are struggling daily, and who get problems from the criminal part of this business, such as: a. due to distortions of competition caused by these illegal activities. Much, as you know, is run by mafia and international gangs who have a completely different and unacceptable business culture than here in the country. In addition, the large amount of public money is lost due to a significant number of bankruptcies among restaurants and other catering facilities, which was in the hands of the interpellant Husøy. Often, enterprises are chemically purified for assets so that there is no money left for housing. The cause is complex. The level of taxation in Norway is very high, with VAT and excise duties on alcoholic beverages, money collected by the restaurant on behalf of the public. In total, this amounts to a large amount, with a similar great temptation for dishonest souls. The ownership structure of the industry is inconclusive and the companies are mainly organised as limited liability companies, often with a minimum of capital. The farmer is the first subparagraph, he often gets paid a percentage of gross sales in cash and on an ongoing basis. The next term is the one on the lease, which may be negotiable. In many cases the company itself owns nothing, not even the inventory, which is often rented – breweries and other suppliers are willing to finance both furniture and furniture. Furthermore, many businesses are characterised by the lack of accounting procedures and black trading takes place. Bankruptcy quarantine is often ineffective because it is continued by means of strawmen, or it is moved out of the country. The Party considers that some problems can be solved by ensuring that a claim for civil liability insurance can be made in order to carry out such activities. That's the way it is today for doctors, dentists, real estate agents, lawyers, etc. fl., although this is not directly comparable. This system must be put in place for the restaurant industry and can be linked to the outlets and operating pathways. The liability insurance must cover the liability of the insurance companies for all taxes, duties and salaries. Insurance companies can prepare offers, and then, of course, the costs have to be assessed to see if this is feasible. If it is feasible, some unprofessional actors can be eliminated, while society can obtain significant amounts of taxes and taxes. I hope that the Council of State will be able to comment on a proposal to evaluate such liability insurance, which may help to solve some of the problems we face in the restaurant industry. Finally, I would like to make suggestions from Dag Danielsen and myself to evaluate such liability insurance. The proposal is distributed among the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1448	Øystein Hedstrøm has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1451	There has been a worrying development in the restaurant industry, as the representative Husøy points out in his interpellation. The manager of the Oslo Hotel and Restaurant Workers Association has previously said that they have over 100 stagings among the outdoors, and that the mafia has a good grip on parts of the industry. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased with the work done by the Ministry of Justice, but also because the industry itself has taken up the matter. The White Campaign on Ethics in Industry is a good step forward. Membership companies sign an ethics statement to adhere to laws and regulations and receive an approval mark from the National Association of Travel Companies. This stamp, or the badge, enables people to choose which venues they want to frequent, and it gives us the opportunity to support the restaurants that are law-abiding. And that's hoping that the number of restaurants participating in this campaign will increase. The Christian People's Party believes it is important to have people with varying expertise in the police in order to detect and solve financial crime, such as accountants, economists, computer experts. There are already different types of police professionals, and it needs to be developed further. The new rules on the withdrawal of dividends could be used extensively in relation to some operators in the industry. Changes in bankruptcy and mortgage laws and review of industry legislation can also make it more difficult for criminals and easier for the police to detect them. An important measure is also to increase the possibility of converting unfair transactions after any bankruptcy in which the parent company is the lessee and, for the most part, the operating company is the one in difficulty. Therefore, a proposal that gives the bankrupt person the right to transfer rental rights together with the rest of the debtor’s business activities will be of great practical benefit and is a proposal that we are pleased that the Ministry of Justice will promote. The issue of resales of assets to the obligor of the bankruptcy or its related parties is also important. Not only economic crime, but also trafficking, drug trafficking, black work and illegal gambling are taking place in the industry. Measures that can reduce violence are those doorkeeper courses. Better use of alcohol law and withdrawal of appropriations are also important measures. The Oslo police see a clear link between intoxication and violence, and have pointed out the high degree of affected or intoxicated victims and perpetrators. In addition, the police have learned that violence is often linked to restaurants. In other words, it is important to take a closer look at the search policy, including: the closing hours, and the Christian People's Party agrees with the Oslo Police, which believes that typical youth sites should close earlier than they do today, as part of a preventive work and a holistic approach.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1463	I will, like most people, agree that the question that the interpellant raises is a very important area – how we can deal with the unprofessional part of the restaurant industry that operates outside the law, with black goods, black money, black work. It's a big problem, not least for the serious part of the industry, that maybe as many as eight out of ten are at the edge of the law. And so not only central and local authorities are involved in enhanced control and supervision, but they are mainly the serious ones in the industry, as both the inter-pellant and the state councils have been involved. However, it is unclear to me what the interpellant means by its words in the very text of the interpellation: ‘The liberalisation of the restaurant industry in Oslo’, to which she opens the door to refer. There are no other conditions and rules and laws in force in the capital than in the rest of the country. In addition, there is a very broad political majority in Oslo that is behind the opening hours and the giving times we have today, and that is also behind the desire for stronger control of the industry. I would say that the enforcement and control of the Oslo industry is probably as ongoing, as extensive, both from the municipal authorities and from the police as elsewhere in the country. And then you might want to add: it should just be missing, because that's where the problems are greatest. But let us not, at least not involuntarily, create the impression that there has been an extra liberalisation in Oslo in recent years. You stick to the legislation, you try to enforce it as strictly as possible, and there is also a handful of new appropriations in the last year. Many have looked at several measures and thoughts about what can be done to strengthen control. One area has not been mentioned – an important area, as I see it – and these are the so-called inaugural and knowledge tests. It surprises me, and it is regrettable that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which is responsible for following up the alcohol law and the food law, have not yet done what the Storting has asked for over a year and a half, namely to have instigate and knowledge tests for those who want to run in this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1472	In relation to a generally as controversial area as politics in relation to places of discovery and outreach, I have to say that it is almost surprising how broad political consensus there is in this matter. It gives you quite a lot of hope that you can manage to get to the unprofessional part of the restaurant and catering industry. I think that will be partly more important in relation to violence problems and drug problems, for example. at the centre of Oslo than many changes in the timing of the donation, and that it may be a very effective way to cope with violence, untruth, etc. There's not so much more that can be added from SV's side, I just want to draw the attention of the Council of State and the rest of the Storting in two areas. One concerns the construction and training of door guards and law enforcement officers in relation to the patios. In fact, there are quite a number of experiences in other Nordic countries that suggest that the level of conflict is reduced quite considerably if you use pensioners and ladies as law enforcement officers, and not two-metre-high testosterone bombs that look like they want to fight. So here, in fact, a pretty significant part of the job can be done if you put the emphasis on negotiation, mutilation of the joint, etc. – or may have an interaction. In some outpatient settings, the clientele, which of course comes so tough, is that Grandma cannot cope with it alone. But I think the way to think about it, that's to think about getting attenuated levels of conflict instead of thinking about it, you need some muscle bundles that pull out as far as possible, is the right way to go. The second is what the interpellant had to say, that there is a very great disparity between the sanctions that can be imposed in relation to places that are operating illegally or breaking laws, in relation to how much money there is in the industry. For example, it almost seems like a joke if the police are inside and shut down somewhere for four days because you have broken the food law, and then you can open again, and it can float freely. If that authority the police have in such cases was extended – let's say to three months, but with a certain appeal – we would have had a completely different and much more up-to-date, effective way to really hit those who run illegally on their wallet. And I think that if you rust up the standard in relation to enforcing the law on the one hand, it will also turn out to be related to violence and violent crime, drug and drug crime on the other side of the street. It updates another kind of thing, e.g. the possibility of withdrawal of pedestals and of closures even if there is no breach of the provisions relating to pedestals, even if there are other provisions which are being broken. [[The President clubs.]] So if you could agree to tighten up the response requirements, so that there was a better relationship between what you earn and what you risk, and use the law across, then I think you had effective legislation. Now I was asking the president out in town, but of course I shouldn't!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1485	Now it was only the speaking time that was broken!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1488	Now in the debate, I think it makes sense to remember that the purpose of the restaurant business is to serve us good food and good drinks, because when you listen to the description of the restaurant industry, especially in the interpellation, you probably get the impression that the restaurant industry has completely different purposes. I think the description is only partly correct and absolutely not representative, and we have to remember, after all, that there is only a small part of the restaurant industry that is snooping. In fact, few industries are subject to several control bodies which are able to detect irregularities. The restaurant industry has the tax authorities' watchful eye towards it, the Labour Inspectorate frequently comes under control, and municipal donor inspectors also frequently come under control. I believe that if we are to combat organised crime, we must focus more on completely different areas, such as our refugee, asylum and immigration policies, than on the restaurant industry. But I realize that there are problems in parts of the industry, and I agree with the proposals that the Labour Party is promoting, and will vote in favour of them. I cannot agree that it is right to make the restaurant industry responsible for street violence in Oslo. It is true that violence often occurs when very many people are gathered in one place, and of course when you are affected by alcohol. Only a small part of the alcohol consumption in Oslo takes place at the restaurants. I have recorded that the Prime Minister and the Christian People's Party have as about the only answer when discussing the use of violence in Oslo, that restaurants and nightclubs should be closed an hour or two earlier in the evening, so that even more people can be gathered in the Oslo Centre when they come rushing out of the restaurants and arguing about the same taxis. That it should lead to less violence, I feel very illogical. In fact, long opening hours at nightclubs lead to people going home at different times, and there is less accumulation of full people in the center at the same times. Another solution for the Christian People's Party is, of course, to have fewer jaws, so that the queues get even longer at the nightclubs that are open, and people can stand there and argue and push to try to get into the nightclubs, with the risk that someone might hit. That it should lead to less violence is also highly illogical. I have recorded that the Council of State, positive enough, wants to increase its competence and strengthen the police in combating the black economy. He said the same thing in the previous debate, positive enough: he would increase police competence and strengthen police and prosecution authorities to combat sexual abuse against children and women. And then the State Council will have more police in Oslo's streets and streets in other cities in the evening. Very good! For all of this, money is needed; for all of this, a real police budget is needed. So now we have a budget that shows that the overtime budget has been substantially reduced, for example. in Bergen, and that, of course, will not lead to the desired result.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1501	The background to my raising this interpellation was also to find out that violence and criminal activity are more complex than you could believe when you hear Jan Simonsen talk about it, and that there are also other measures you should call for than just more visible police in the streets. It is also important for employees in the industry. Like Simonsen and many others, I also want to go out and drink and eat, but I don't want to be involved in criminal acts when I do. I believe that there is a need for a power cut, and I felt that I had a lot of support from the Council of State in that you have to keep following closely. The representative Annelise Höegh asked what I meant by liberalisation. So it's essentially the re-establishment that was the basis of that characteristic. I also want to respond to Jan Simonsen's characteristics, that this concerns a small part of the restaurant industry. I'm afraid it doesn't. I think it's a much larger scale than you could think at first. And it's also in the serious part of the industry's own interest to do something about organized crime and other types of illegal and unprofessional operation. This is why the industry has also been involved in many different working groups and actions. The problem is that it pays to operate illegally, as it is today. In the context of new food law, a working group was set up to review the situation in the restaurant industry. I suggest that the government consider doing it again, to think about new measures and to get an overview of how bad the situation really is. In summary, I would also like to say that there is a need for increased resources to detect illegal operations, there is a need for cooperation, and there is an even greater need to coordinate the control bodies and the overall control. New measures should be considered. The goal must be to make Oslo and our country less attractive to criminal and illegal activities in the restaurant industry. We know that when, for example, Razzias happen – that’s very good, and often a result of cross-border cooperation – control officers and employees are afraid of their lives. We know that it's happening a lot. When you see that restaurants or gift shops that there are never people at, go with huge profits, I'll use it as an example that it'll pay for us all to increase control.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1516	This debate has shown that there is a broad consensus on the seriousness of this situation. There is also a broad consensus that important measures have been put in place. Furthermore, there is agreement that action should continue to be more effective and strengthened. Then we're going to do it within the budgetary framework that the Storting is always agreeing to set up for the justice sector in general and for this area in particular. The issue of the coordination of information obtained by the police regarding infringements of the alcohol law, drug trafficking or matters of order was raised by the representative Husøy, and I have shown that such coordination is to take place in the Oslo police district in order to improve the effectiveness of the fight against this obscurity. The representative, Husøy, asked if this could be applied in other parts of the country, if I understood her correctly. Now there are few other places in the country where conditions are as complicated and unwieldy as in Oslo. In many places this overview will be available by virtue of the fact that society is quite transparent. But I think there is a reason to take this issue up with the district police forces to see if there is a type of coordination that can be used elsewhere in the country. The representative Hedstrøm asked for a comment on the proposal with insurance. I think that the idea is interesting to consider. However, the proposal has a wording that makes me somewhat uncertain whether he believes that the insurance company should in some way assume responsibility for taxes and taxes. I am afraid that the wording of this proposal can be misunderstood in a way that the proposers have probably not meant. I would suggest that it might be appropriate to send it – if appropriate. As far as legislation in this area is concerned, I refer to the legal issues dealt with by the Stortinget, which provide opportunities to look at the law, not least in relation to those parts of economic crime linked to the black bankruptcies. I have noticed what has been said about the inauguration and knowledge test. With regard to the bulwark policy in Oslo, the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party hardly agree on it, neither in Oslo City Council, where the question belongs primarily, nor in this Chamber, so I leave it in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1536	That being the case, it is no. Four debates were completed. [[Opinion on proposals, see page 2312]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1554	It's been a long time since the innocence, if it ever existed, left Oslo. The city's name is not Tiger City on the folklore for no reason. However, recent developments in the areas of violence, crime and arms use have taken a qualitative turn in terms of raw materials, methods and scope. This is not least due to the increase in the level of drug use and organised crime, but is also due to the increase in youth/recreational crime. A large part of it again, despite all the refugees, asylum seekers and immigrants receiving the city that are doing well, and who are positive contributors to the city and Norwegian society, is due to the proportion that cannot be integrated and that is not interested in accepting the rules of the game in Norway. When youth, of which 84 pst. of the members are of foreign origin, go to the city with knives and guns, it must be allowed to point this out without being accused of being xenophobic or of whipping up racist moods. A crucial point here is that this situation can be addressed by rapid action and action. It is a matter of political will, and that is why I have raised this inter-pelling debate with a number of concrete proposals for decisions, which, in the view of the Progress Party, can help to improve the situation considerably. I would like to stress that this is immediate action. The longer-term prevention measures will affect me more fully on later occasions. Now it is important that we politicians face people's insecurity in everyday life with concrete action and not just with words. In Oslo, teenagers are stopped on the street and threatened, ransacked and knocked up by children under the criminal paratrooper. Daily, taxi drivers in the city are hit by violence, and a bone-hard drug environment characterises the capital. Whereever possible use of the Nevernet in the past, use and threats of the use of knives and firearms have become a widely used option. In fact, the number of reports of violence was reduced by 3.3 pst. in 1998 compared with 1997. However, this figure has increased to such an extent in the 1990s, from 1,780 reviews in 1990 to over 2,400 in 1998, that a slight decrease was expected sooner or later. The aim must be to make this reduction permanent and to ensure that such reduction continues. I have therefore put forward proposals on behalf of the Progress Party asking the Government to make proposals on the necessary appropriations to enable students at the Oslo Police College to take weekends, public holidays and evening shifts as patrol officers in the Oslo Centre from the coming Easter. This is an immediate measure that can help to make city developments more serious by showing police in the streets in a situation of acute crew shortages until a longer-term solution with trained teams can be found. Privatisation is a good thing, but the ‘privatisation’ of the police being witnessed today, by the fact that citizens have to hire private security and security for their own lives and property, is not worthy of the welfare state of Norway. It is necessary to put on the agenda of the entire Norwegian population that Oslo, the capital of the country, faces very special challenges in terms of heavy crime. It should not be necessary to knock down depositors in the Castle Park in order for opinion and politicians to understand most of the seriousness and challenge of the crime facing the capital of the country. These are the fundamental issues in a society that is to be harmonious and that is to give people the basic security of everyday life that all people are entitled to. If such a society is to be characterised as humane and civilised, it is necessary to combat crime with sufficient resources. Oslo needs the provision of increased resources in terms of crews, the means to use these teams, so that they can contribute to the effective fight against this totally unacceptable form of crime. Oslo, as the country's capital, faces very special challenges in terms of this serious type of crime. That's why Oslo needs close-up police in the individual districts who have the necessary expertise to fight crime already at birth. Therefore, the Progress Party today promotes proposals for the Government to take the initiative to establish an extended urban police regime in Oslo to ensure close police in all parts of the city. The city needs a greater degree of uniform, visible police in the cityscape to show police presence and to be able to intervene quickly with sufficient resources when required. Penalties for crimes involving violence, threats of use or use of weapons, and ran, should be tightened up. In the short term, as one has been successful in New York, it is important to point out that society is no longer willing to accept so-called less serious crime. That is why the Progress Party is promoting proposals today, in which we ask the Government to make proposals that'make it impossible to impose lower penalties than conditional imprisonment for gross force'. At my discretion, such a signal will be an important signal that enough is enough, and that we do not accept crime at today's level. Furthermore, in this interpellation, I have stressed the wave, where we have had an increase in the number of rans of more than 140 only from 1997 to 1998. I have also addressed the growing use as well as the threat of using weapons such as knives, firearms and firearms. In today's interpellation, which concerns possible immediate action, I have chosen to focus on measures specifically aimed at the younger offenders. That is why the Progress Party has put forward proposals for a rapid court in order to create a rapid procedure in cases where young offenders are involved. We have also asked the Government to streamline and enforce the dispute resolution system in order to capture young offenders under the criminal detainee as soon as possible. Prioritying this youth group and taking action as quickly as possible can save them from suffering, and many people can get a better and safer everyday life. I would like to take up my five proposals that have been submitted. I hope the broadest possible support from the other parties in a matter that is so serious and fundamental to the inhabitants of both Oslo and the country. Because if you can give this type of serious crime a serious break in the country's capital, I am convinced that this will also have ring-fenced effects in the rest of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1584	The representative, Dag Danielsen, has drawn up the proposals he referred to, which have been distributed to his representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1587	I share the concern expressed by the representative Danielsen in his question about the development of violence and the increase in the number of cases, especially in Oslo. I also share his commitment to both the short-term and the long-term measures. Crime of violence causes many people to become insecure and to be afraid of going out, especially in the center. Although the risk of being exposed to violent crimes is small for some of us, these crimes indirectly affect many people by creating fear and insecurity that inhibits the unfolding of life. It is a priority task to combat violence in society. All the violence, but perhaps especially the blind and unprovoked violence, seems challenging. As a society, we don't accept this. However, the increased focus provides a good starting point for broad mobilisation against violence. For Oslo, a rising trend in reported crimes against life, body and health is reversed in 1998. In Oslo, a positive decrease in the number of criminal threats was recorded in 1997 after both 1995 and 1996 showed an increase. However, developments in 1998 have reversed, and we still have a negative trend. It is particularly worrying that both bodily damage with knives and firearms and threats with knives and firearms show an increase, both for the country as a whole and for Oslo in particular. There has been an increase in the number of notified body damage involving knives and firearms in Oslo, from 11 reviews in January and February 1998 to 13 in the same period this year. On the other hand, there is a decrease in reported body damage without a knife and firearms, from 100 in the first two months of 1998 to 80 in the same period in 1999. Ran/expressing has a total of 20 pst. in relation to 1997. Businesses and kiosks in particular have increased. If we look at the development of the total number of people reported in Oslo in January and February 1999, we find a decrease of 9.4 p.m. compared with the same period last year. This reduction may be related to the decline in the so-called child sensitivities. I think it is necessary for a broad social mobilization against violence. However, most of the measures we can take within a democratic regime will only produce results in the future. The most important thing will always be to work towards finding good prevention measures against crime, including against violent crime, threats and crime. I am, like the interpellant, also engaged in immediate action against violence. The Government has presented the ‘Centre of Security’ Action Plan to prevent and combat violence in public places. This plan substantially addresses the violence occurring in public space, including the fight against it. The plan is primarily aimed at combating violence in public places in urban centres, especially in Oslo. Several of the proposals will also be of importance for violence prevention in general. Police efforts shall be based on presence, wide-ranging contact with the public and rapid handling of cases. Crime analysis, combined with targeted use of service lists, are important instruments. Several measures involve targeted efforts by the police to be visible, both in order to prevent and to be able to intervene at an early stage in the event of any violence. It is also proposed to strengthen cooperation with local authorities in order to achieve cross-border cooperation based on the relevant parts of the zero-tolerance model, on which the inter-pellant was involved. Other departments are also responsible for parts of the plan. In order to combat rancriminality, a testing scheme has been put in place in Oslo with the certification of shops. Certification takes place after police review of the measures deemed necessary to prevent cleanness. The scheme is followed up by concrete actions in cooperation with the General Organisation of Trade and Service Industries. The police have a central task here, and it is important that they succeed in their efforts against this type of crime. However, the best possible result is also dependent on the fact that the trade industry itself is intensifying its efforts to implement safeguard measures for exposed sites and locations. I would also like to take the initiative of setting up a new resource group for prevention in the broad sense. Through cross-sectoral cooperation, the group shall include the police, the prosecution authority, the commercial sector, watchkeeping companies, etc. provide concrete advice, ideas and proposals for action with a view to reducing the number of cases. More recently, Oslo police districts have given special priority to the fight against violent crime in public places in the centre, especially with the main efforts of the weekends, with a very good result. In order to strengthen the sacred service, the students of the graduation class are offered the service of the Police College at the Oslo Police District. The police district is now engaging 62 senior students in the five police stations, after a call at the Police College. Students shall, if necessary, provide police services as additional evening and night work on weekends. Students shall carry out a uniformed service with trained personnel. The scheme has already entered into force at the Greenland Police Station, and the other stations will start during March and the first half of April. It may also be appropriate to insert some UP patrols. Thus, this proposal, among those addressed by the interpellant, should be well on track, also with regard to the propulsion requested by the interpellant. I would also like to point out that the Ministry of Justice, as a trial project, has given Oslo police districts the opportunity to video monitor violent places in the centre of Oslo. Unfortunately, there is a significant element of threats involving knives and firearms and the use of knives, percussion weapons or other dangerous tools in the violence the police are recording. The Advocate General has made proposals for extended access to investigate whether persons carry weapons, munitions and firearms, in public places, a right to visit. The Ministry of Justice has examined the proposal and submitted on 5 February a proposal for a new Section 10a of the Police Act at the hearing. The hearing period expires on 22 March. It is my goal that Stortinget will be presented with a proposal in a reasonable time before the end of the current session. The Ministry of Justice supports a project for the monitoring of violent gangs. The aim of the project is to provide research-based knowledge on the extent, forms, structures and functions of gangs in Norway. On the basis of the research, a programme shall be drawn up to prevent the establishment and development of criminal and violent gangs, as well as to assist individuals out of such gangs. It is in preparation for the training and instruction of door guards, which was mentioned in the previous inter-pelling debate. This is based on the idea that doorkeepers could have an important function as a conflict solver in and around the tipping points. Based on a concrete assessment, the local police officer must consider the need for background control and a requirement for course implementation. The scheme has been implemented before in some police districts with good results. In Oslo, the police chief recently sent out a pre-notification notice to 25 serving points in the center with instructions to have approved law enforcement agencies. A course programme of 25 hours has been drawn up in cooperation with the National Association of Travel Companies and the Hotel and Restaurant Association. Ordinary guards will be properly checked and given a provisional approval. They will receive a proof of identity which must be borne in a visible way. The Oslo Police District aims at requiring 50 service stations to take their order guards in 1999. However, the system must be based on new legislation. What I have said shows that several short-term measures have been taken, that they are being followed up, while the long-term measures are under way. Let me comment briefly on some of the proposals that I have not already discussed. As I said, we are already following up the proposal to involve the police students in the sanctuaries and evening guards as patrol officers in the Oslo Centre now in the very next few weeks, and it is already going on at one of the police stations. The question of strengthening the Councils of Conflict and the role of the Councils of Conflict, I am positive and would like to look into it more closely. On the issue of the introduction of a rapid court, the proposer may be able to explain in more detail what this really involves. I agree that devoting capacity to matters that need to be addressed quickly is absolutely necessary. However, the question of changing the procedural system itself and introducing a new type of court is a much larger matter, and I do not know if that is what the proposer is aiming for. In addition, the issue of the organisation of urban police in Oslo is a matter for which the police chief is responsible, and I would warn against the Storting going too far in detail regarding the internal organisation of the Oslo Police Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1636	With regard to my proposal No. 2, I have been injured by an incubator to write ‘Conditional Prison for Gross Warrior’! It should have been said, of course, that ‘unconstitutional imprisonment is too gross atrocities’. I therefore draw this proposal, because it will be a rich opportunity to come back to this proposal later on. I would like to thank the Council of State for sharing his commitment to this serious matter and also for the satisfaction of some of the points. Nevertheless, I do not think the Council of State sees the seriousness of this situation, and I would like to use an expression that has been used in the past, that the characteristic of a conservative politician is that you want a reform, but not right now. With regard to involving 62 police students in five police districts, it is too small in my opinion in the present situation. This is where you could actually use hundreds. In the case of first-year students, two and two patrols can be left in Oslo. As far as third-class students are concerned, they have experience as policemen from different places around the country, so that they can also patrol on their own. The Council of State asked for a detailed explanation of what I mean by a rapid court. I think here, among other things. on the scheme in London, where young offenders are apprehended on a fresh basis, they are brought before the courts the next day. There are lawyers who are available all the time, precisely in view of the need to get something done quickly with these young people. It is imperative to send signals to young people that such behavior will not be tolerated.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1650	Crime and the fight against crime are important and deserve great attention. The interpellant takes up the situation in the capital as Oslo representative, and that is understandable. The capital has a crime development that is to an extent specific, but, I would stress, no more specific than that a good number of districts around the capital and also some other major cities experience the same thing in some cases. This means that we do not have to rule in detail, but provide the police district with flexibility in meeting developments and giving room for local variation. The Interpellant also mentions a specific measure under consideration in the Judicial Committee. I would therefore like to make no further comment than to say that we are prepared to give the necessary powers to the police. However, I would like to take this opportunity to give some general considerations. Crime and violence are unacceptable and must be responded to. Crime is a tragedy for the individual affected, and it creates uncertainty for many more. Violence also rebels against politicians who do not necessarily demand ‘lifelong’ on the following day. The debate on criminal policy has focused on and focused on individual acts, and as a result has also called for simple solutions, where police and more stringent sanctions have dominated. We need a comprehensive criminal policy, based on facts and reality in order to be targeted, involving the entire criminal chain – from the police through the courts to criminal justice. But how can we prevent and prevent criminal acts, where there are issues of involving everything from home, the growing-up environment, child protection, school, activities and police in relation to the prevention side? We have to respond when crime is committed, and we have to take seriously the increasing incidence of children and young people and find the necessary response methods. However, I believe that there needs to be a stronger focus on prevention work among children and young people. The involvement of local authorities in the capital is not least important here. I know that a lot of good work is going on in this area. I continue to record that the Progress Party is focused on more police and criminal aspects. Then I would like to re-write a repeated point of view from the police officer in Oslo, on a lecture last night, namely that we cannot buy ourselves free from crime with appropriations for the police and increased powers for the criminal court. The Chief of Police believes that criminal policy must be more than just a policy of justice.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1663	In the context of the Oslo wave, which peaked in December, the Minister of Justice was on TV2 with proposals for immediate action. She would immediately set up a selection of representatives from the department and the commercial industry in Oslo – well and good. But when was it an immediate measure to bring down a sample? We know that the government has presented a so-called action package against violence, almost as full as the Christian People's Party party program – well and well. I agree with the representative of Bjørnstad and the police chief of Oslo that much needs to be done to prevent crime, that everything cannot only be resolved with more police or more severe penalties. It's just that we can't stop a violent episode or a raid in Oslo tomorrow by proposing better cooperation between home and school or between municipalities, police and non-governmental organisations, or other similar naturalities. While the Government assesses measures and proposes long-term measures, people are stabbed and robbed, children are raped, and fear and anxiety spread. We need measures aimed directly at the rapists, the detainees and the perpetrators, proposals that have to eliminate the quantum discount by measuring the penalties or a more effective possibility for the police to investigate, as the Progress Party has proposed. We need extra funds for the police, so that we can quickly get more police in the streets. We need funds to be able to offer all police college students, not only 62 students in the high school, to patrol at the Oslo Center in the evenings, as an extra job with full pay. Or what about calling the entire police reserve to practice in Oslo Center at regular intervals? There is a need for immediate action, and I note, after hearing the speech to the Council of State, that the Government is still far on the road to action. Perhaps the voters in Oslo should be aware of the choice of the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1672	Oslo is a quite safe city after all. However, the fear of being subjected to violence is of great importance because it can limit the life span of many people. That is why we must work to limit punishment and violence – yes, all crime – as much as possible. There are three areas one has to focus on at the same time. The first is prevention, long-term work, across departments, committees and levels of administration, and in cooperation with non-governmental organisations. The second is the treatment or rehabilitation of those who have come to the slope. The third is the work of the police and the judiciary. In other words, it is necessary to see the whole and the context and be willing to cooperate for joint responsibility and to find good solutions. The Christian People's Party is pleased with the work the Ministry of Justice has done and does. The ‘Centre for Safety’ action plan is one of the measures that have been taken. There are many good measures and an overview of what is going on, and what can be done further. As a result of immediate action, cooperation with the commercial industry on the certification of shops has been established in order to make them more ransack-proof. It is important that the trade industry itself follow up on action and engage in the problem. The law enforcement team of the Oslo Police seems to be very effective. A large percentage of clearance and rapid clearance are important keywords. Also important is a visible and active police force, and they can be present in those places and at the times of violent epidemics. Learning conflict resolution without violence is also important. It must start at primary school and be followed up until the rehabilitation process for those in prison. One of the most important things is taking children and young people seriously, hearing what they think is problematic in everyday life, being in the family situation or in school. We need to be better able to interpret the calls for help that precede violence and crime and find the right measures to prevent unwanted development. It is the long-term and preventive work that is crucial for the awareness-raising work. In this respect, I would like to quote a comment from an overall judicial office, including the Advance Party, in the budgetary position: ‘The Committee points out that there is a close link between drug abuse, crime and violence. Preventing drug use should also be a commitment to ourselves. There is a clear link between the values of the adult world and the choices made by children and young people, and one cannot uncouple the assignment from the norms, values, models and symbols to which the adult world acknowledges itself.’ It's a challenge that requires us to put the spotlight on ourselves, and that can be quite unpleasant, but necessary. However, everyone in the committee, including the Progress Party, took part in this comment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1696	The starting point of the inter-pellant is the increase in the gross violence and crackdowns in Oslo. The interpellant is requesting immediate action. However, I think the debate has so far ended in the traditional ditch between those who are just stressing prevention, and those who are just stressing punishment and other measures, without us coming so much further. I think it might be natural to take on board the immediate measures that the Storting has already adopted, in the leadership we gave in December when we dealt with the legal position, for what the department would work on, because it could be included in such an immediate action package. Among other things, it was suggested that all the newly trained police students should get a job. Hopefully we'll know when the revised national budget comes. Then we said that we would separate the Oslo Police Chamber as a separate post, so that the funds of the Oslo Police and the immediate measures that Ingelin Killeggeren can take in Oslo, don't depend on how many embassies she has to guard because we have many foreign state visits. We also asked for different measures to be taken to speed up court proceedings, and I would like to stay a little longer. The Interpellant has a proposal to introduce a rapid court, which can be interpreted in various ways. I think it is important here to distinguish between what is the Interrogation Court Institute, which in many cases concerns a perpetrator who is being apprehended at the moment, and where there is a confession. This may seem like a very quick court. But I agree that we have to go a step further, and we have to go, among other things. see the Sandefjord project. I interpret the comments made by the Stortinget in December, to the point that different court solutions will also be tried that reduce the waiting time in relation to what it is today, so that we can, for example, apply. a reduction from three months to one month by implementing the processes. This is a concrete job that the Government has been given. With regard to the proposals of the Progress Party, I believe that very many of them have already been implemented or adopted in the Stortinget. What remains is simply the specific follow-up of the department, which is what is missing. As regards the proposal for a knife ban and a search, the Minister said that the consultation deadline expires on 22 March. We have two proposals in the committee, one from the Right and one from the Progress Party, with a deadline of 22 April, so in this case we can have a very rapid decision when the hearing is closed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1711	The fight against violence is too important to be used as a political argument. Prevention, emergency and long-term measures must be implemented here. But it's too simple when it's only called for faster criminal responses, lower levels of criminal law, increase police and tougher sentences. Children and young people do not become rulers of themselves. Something has happened to them when they have experienced care failure at home or at school. Then they easily search for a career where the chosen one gives the identity, honor and friendship of others in the same situation. Sending them to prison will be too easy to get rid of a problem. There will be a superficial solution. There must be a much stronger prevention protection for children. A lot of kids need more security than freedom, and maybe a neighboring nut that cares. We should also be aware that the influence of alcohol has a strong connection with power, both at home and outside. According to the police's information, this applies to both the perpetrator and the victim. Increased control of outdoor areas and the management of hamlets is therefore important. Policemaster Rolf B. Wegner in Bergen thinks it's too easy to call for more police and more severe punishments, and he says: ‘To do something about violence, one must attack its causes... we do not solve the problem of violence by strengthening the police alone... today’s violence can only be combated if we have a comprehensive policy against violence, aggression and insecurity.’ He said this in the evening post on 29 January. To achieve this, he draws out five elements, where stricter alcohol policies are mentioned first. The police are also aware that it is in the world most of the power is happening – when no one sees it. So far, it has been taboo, a private area that shouldn't be talked about. Now family power is about to come out of the closet. The family power in Oslo is 29 p.m. of all the powers reported to the police, and thus at the top of the statistics. We also have to assume that this is a lot that is never reported. It's always easy to knock down the person who exercises power, but get to ask why it happens. No doubt the selection will be selected. Rescued children are going to be great. In Sweden it turned out that 70 pst. of all crime was committed by people who had been committed criminal acts before the age of 12. This was disclosed by psychologist Per Isdal at the election conference in Oslo on 9 February. This is a reason to think about it. But first of all, the fear of being elected is the greatest harm that comes from the crime of violence.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1733	As the chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs pointed out, this debate is probably also a bit marked by a repetition of previous debates. But in that context, I actually want to give honor to the interpellant Day Danielsen that he, looking at the party he represents, holds a relatively sober tone in this interpellation, and that it is thus free from some of the phenomena that have sometimes marked these debates. Crime is deterrent to freedom, whether it is against life, against body or against property. It is therefore important, given what society we want, to avoid crime. But the means we use to fight crime are also crucial for which society we're going to have, and for which society we want. It is therefore important to hold a debate on the methods to be used to combat crime. I think it is important to stress, as the Council of State also did in its response, that there may be a need for broad social mobilization, and that it is about a wide range of instruments. In that context, the interpellant was a little vague in terms of privatisation in this area. Then he thought about the guard companies and the like, if I understood him correctly, and then I agreed with the interpellant so far. But if we see the point in privatisation that we all have a responsibility in relation to crime development and violence, I think it is important to stress that side. To be a little spooky and perhaps cover two areas for which the meeting state council is currently responsible, I would say that if we all took a 20-minute evening tour, it might be good both for public health and in relation to the fight against crime. In concrete terms, there has been talk of the use of weapons. It is clear that some of the really serious developments in Oslo have been the increasing use of weapons. We then remember that we have relatively recently adopted changes to the Arms Act, and we do not yet have a full overview of the possible consequences. On the proposals I would like to say briefly: urban police are in and out excellent as the organisation of the police. Appropriations for more visible police are also not the stupidest and can make sense. Conflict advice to capture young offenders is important, even if they are over 15 years of age. Quick court, as the representative thought, I don't want to. What's wrong with one week or 14 days? Finally, when we discuss the problems in Oslo, we should remember that it is also elsewhere in the country than Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1749	I tend to agree with Kristin Krohn Devold that more important than introducing new proposals in this field now is to implement what is actually adopted by the Stortinge, and that it is not always the fastest and easiest solutions that produce lasting results, especially when it comes to combating violence on a longer-term basis. I also agree with the interpellant that we cannot accept the extent of violence that we have in the big city today. Oslo has without comparison, I think, the greatest strain of violence in Norway. Both the number of body damage and the number of threats of violence have increased as well as the ran of shops, kiosks, gas stations, etc., and we read about this every single day. Young people are often blamed for this, but studies on youth and crime show that most young people are better than their reputation and are concerned about both school and the community. It's about 5 pst. of all youth, unfortunately most boys, who account for most of the serious crime. In addition, the Oslo Centre has increasingly become the arena of more widespread violence and crime. In the autumn of 1998, I led a work on the growing up environment of children and young people in Oslo. We spent a lot of time going into the environments. In order to improve the growing-up environment and prevent violence by children and young people, we would try to find out what everyday life actually is like in urban areas, in schools, for young people from different ethnic backgrounds, in multicultural urban areas, among others. We discovered how the libraries helped children from foreign environments with homework and made sure they got through high school. These were students who were brilliant in mathematics, but who didn't understand the essay, because at home they didn't speak Norwegian. At the police station, we heard about how the police, paid for by other big city funds, are taking young people with a desperate need for adult contact on weekends in the country. We were told at the leisure clubs about boys from immigrant environments who are not allowed to set limits according to Norwegian rules and Norwegian laws. In order to prevent juvenile delinquency, we need to know something about the structural developments that create violence, but we also need to have visible police, not least in the evenings and weekends. I noticed that the Council of State said he would set up resource groups to prevent rane at the centre. The work of the police in cooperation with school and urban administration, etc., is also essential. It is also important that we ensure that young people have the necessary respect for laws and regulations, including by speeding up the procedure in the courts. You've already started a job at the Oslo Court of Justice, and I don't think it would be right to make a decision about a rapid court here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1765	I would first like to make a few comments on the proposals put forward by the interpellant. I believe that all the proposals, except for proposal No. 2, which I understood has been drawn – and well is it, because it would mean a considerable relief in the penalty for committing serious acts of warfare, according to my concepts – is to open doors in relation to proposals that we know are to be assessed in the ministry, or that have been taken up in the Stortingen in the past, and that will not be the nature of immediate action. This, of course, does not mean that the issue itself and the text of the interpellation are not essential and important to discuss. In the context of the Oslo Police's presentation of statistics on the development of crime in the capital, very much attention was focused on the situation and, in particular, on the behaviour of young people under the age of 19, where there was a significant increase and a significant element of children with ethnic backgrounds other than Norwegian. What drowned completely in that discussion was that there were 124 individuals. Terriblely many walked around with some sort of notion inside their heads that here there was a horde of criminal childish people who just threw themselves over young and old in a happy drive. There is real hope that there are 124 individuals with very special, individual reasons for committing such serious crimes, and where, of course, individual measures are needed to help them get back on track. The most important and important thing, as we know, is a rapid response, as far as the author of the proposal is concerned. It's being stopped early. It is important for each individual youth, and it is important because then a signal goes to everyone who is around them, that this type of activity is not something that pays off – crime doesn't pay off, you're not cool if you do it. What's a big challenge for the police is that a lot of these are activities that concern admission in gangs, that kids commit crimes that they've been told to commit by adults either to join a bunch where they can be included or to become a member of a gang. It also means that the reactions to them, must be of such a nature that it actually helps people to get out of a situation that is under pressure, and that they are not just being attached more to the inside of a bunch than they were before. The most important thing about this is something the Progress Party is terribly bad at, namely to include all young people, in any case, in the wider community – not to feed reps of a lot of young people who struggle to spend time at school, who feel outside, who are not allowed to enter sports environments, etc. [[President clubs]] If the President allows that, I would like to finally refer to Hillary Clinton, who has said that a village is needed to raise a child. I think that's a very important perspective to have. There are many different adults who work to include kids, especially in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1778	I would like to stress that the Progress Party is of the opinion that the fight against violence requires that all the chain of criminal reactions should be seen in the context and not in part and in part, as they are today. This means that the resources of the police and county councils, courts and prison services must match in order to bring about a powerful legal state that punishes more criminals and perpetrators, and that more fully defends the victim and law-abiding citizens. Several police officers have the same opinion as the Progress Party. Then I don't think of Rolf B. Wegner, but of the other police officers who spoke in the same article that the Aarrestad representative referred to, but to which she didn't mention – wisely enough. A majority of police officers say that they want visible police in the streets, faster trial and conviction, and that more repeaters have to be locked up and beaten, where they really belong. So far, the Progress Party and the police officers I referred to are completely in line. It should be part of the recipe to combat crime. Such instruments can deliver good results in Oslo and other districts. Some policy-makers cooperate with the Länsmannskontoret (Länsmannskontoret) in, among others: to follow the youth from the outskirts towards the city. Putting a stop to snuffing and running into riots that create intrusive relationships is consistent with the so-called New York crime-fighting model. There, you intervene and hit small things hard before they develop into bigger things. Policemaster Anstein Klev in Kristiansand claims that the number of gross thefts is halved in Kristiansand in two years because you follow a tougher line – similar to the New York model. Other measures will include the introduction of rapid courts and their use to a greater extent. It is important to speed up criminal proceedings and not allow them to accumulate. It will have a great impact on the offenders and criminal elements. It has been popular for many years to impose high fines on speed-traders, among other things. to obtain more money for the Treasury. It is high time to look at the practice of imposing higher and more severe fines for violence and damage to individuals and society. The Progress Party would like repeaters to spend more time in prison behind locks and bars in particular, but there must be a political backbone to impose stricter penalties, in particular on violence and repeated acts of violence. Today it is profitable to be a repeat offender because they receive a discount for repeated crimes. This ongoing system suggests that society is sick and is not a legal state worthy of it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1789	I would like to thank you for the positive words that have been said in the debate and for the positive response that the interpellation has received. I hope that this will be followed up with support for the concrete proposals put on the table. Obviously, this interpellation to some extent is superficial, because of course it is not comprehensive and exhaustive. I have focused on immediate action that I believe should be taken quickly. I assume, of course, that these measures are being followed up in parallel with long-term and preventive measures. The representative of Aarrestad said that the fear of violence is what is causing the greatest harm. I agree. However, the more important it is to address the problems and take immediate action and come up with concrete solutions so that something can be done with them. It will also help prevent anxiety, which many people feel. Then they feel that the fear they have is being taken seriously, and that something is being done. Crime statistics will also show that this produces results. Clearly, alcohol is an important cause of violence in many contexts. No one can put it under the chair. But alcohol alone is not a direct cause of all the violence. Here, of course, people's personality, standards and behaviour come in as absolutely crucial factors. Violence will also be found where the alcohol is not present. I have no faith in a possible policy in Norway to abolish all forms of alcohol. Here, as we know, we've had alcohol ever since the Young Saga and the Puppy Paws drowned in the nutshell. It's one of the oldest written sources we have in Norway at all. The representative of Nybakk said that a number of good measures have been implemented, that a number of good proposals have been adopted in the Stortinget. Yes, it is. But this is not enough, and that is not an argument against introducing further sensible measures, which I believe are proposed here. This is a continuous process, and if someone has good suggestions that can help dampen the violence we are experiencing today, it is very important that these are just adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1802	I have chosen to meet the interpellant on what he is asking for, and focused on immediate action related to the criminal justice chain. I have explained how we follow up the Government's action plan, I have explained how the police strengthen their efforts especially in Oslo, and especially in the weekends, I have explained the multidisciplinary cooperation based on zero tolerance, on certification schemes for shops, on the new resource group to prevent rans, on how to deploy police students, on trial projects with video surveillance and on the bill on extended access to investigate whether people carry weapons. I could make this a debate about the Christian People's Party's heart issues, about alcohol policy and the relationship between alcohol use and violence – but I didn't. I could have made it a debate about how we can prevent through a more active family policy, because I believe that many, many young people today are very, very hungry for love, for care and for being seen and taken seriously by adults at all. I could make this into a debate about violence on the screens, whether it's computer screens or TV screens, about how we imagine that we can reap peace in the streets when we sow violence in the living rooms. I did not, because these questions belong to a debate different from the one to which the representative Danielsen invited. I think it is important that the Stortinget also take this wide-ranging debate on the fight against violence. But when I didn't, it was because I actually took the interpellant's question seriously. And then I expected something other than a hoax from Simonsen's representative. But I think it's a step forward when the representative Simonsen now says that the government 'is on the way' in these questions. As I have been referred to earlier, he has previously stated that the Government has been completely paralysed in these questions. It indicates that there is some progress to be traced, and I will be allowed to participate and contribute to it. Maybe in the next round we can be the action lamb just to some degree, and then it starts to happen something.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1809	That is when the debate is on case No. 5 ended. [[Opinion on proposals, see page 2313]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1817	Before we go to voting, the President will draw attention to the fact that the regulatory time for tomorrow's meeting is now over. The President proposes that we continue the meeting until the votes on the issues listed on the current map have been implemented – and consider it to be accepted. There will then be a vote on the matter No. 2 - 5.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1825	During the debate Svein Ludvigsen has tabled two proposals on behalf of the Right. Mr Ludvigsen has the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1830	I have made two proposals which have been distributed. We would probably have preferred to have them adopted here and now, but we choose to perceive the positive statements that have come from several representatives, among other things. News from the Workers' Party and Steensnæs of the Christian People's Party, and not least the Foreign Minister's statement that he found this interesting, as an expression of a committed willingness to assess the need for increased humanitarian aid efforts in North-West Russia both in the context of the treatment of St.prp. No 38 for 1998-99, where proposed 100 million. additional to the Baltic and Russia, and then in the revised national budget. We are converting the proposals into transmission proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1837	The President has not invited a new post, but the signal has been received. Proposals Nos. 1 and 2 have therefore been converted into transmission proposals, and they will be amended accordingly. Proposal No. 1. reads as amended: ‘The Government is advised to return to the Revised National Budget with an assessment of the possibility of channelling humanitarian aid funds to our neighbourhoods via Norwegian non-governmental organisations and/or the United Nations system.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the Government return to the Revised National Budget, reviewing the need for humanitarian aid to North-West Russia.’ The President proposes that the proposals be submitted to the Government without any rebuttal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1857	During the debate, Mr Orheim, Mr Bekkemelm, presented four proposals on behalf of the Labour Party. Mr Orheim, Mr Bekkemelm, has the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1862	It is a majority for all the proposals of the Labour Party today. But we think the Council of State has given such positive signals in the debate we had on this matter, that there is reason to take him seriously and give him the opportunity to follow them up in the ministry. That is why I ask that our proposals be converted into transmission proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1867	Proposals Nos. 1, 2, 3 and 4 will then be reworded in line with the wish of the proposers to turn these proposals into transmission proposals. Proposal No. 1 sounds in changed form: ‘The Government is advised to strengthen and expand crisis centres in parts of the country where they do not exist or are poorly developed, so that offers are made in all parts of the country.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds in changed form: ‘The Government is advised to draw up a comprehensive proposal for relief measures for a time-limited period to assist women exposed to violence. Auxiliary measures must include professional assistance by psychologist and lawyer, housing assistance and provision of education and training.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds in changed form: ‘The Government is advised to set up a public body to carry out a wide-ranging review of issues related to violence against women and children.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended to the Government that a separate scope study on violence against women in Norwegian society be carried out.’ The President proposes that the proposals be submitted to the Government without any rebuttal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1896	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 – 3, by Inger Lise Husøy on behalf of the Workers' Party Proposal No. 4, from Øystein Hedstrom on behalf of Dag Danielsen and himself The President shall make explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1908	An explanation of vote on behalf of the Progress Party. I would recommend our representatives to support the proposal No. 1, 2 and 3, from Inger Lise Husøy on behalf of the Workers' Party. Our own proposal, No. 4, I would like to turn into a transmission proposal in the light of what the Council of State said about the measures proposed by the Government and the Ministry, and to look at this with a liability insurance scheme and have it assessed in the context of these measures.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1915	I ask the centre parties to vote against proposal No. 2, as it is an area belonging to the municipalities, and for the proposals No. 1 and 3.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1920	I would recommend that the representatives of the Right vote in favour of proposal No. 1 and 3. Proposal No. 2 concerns tasks currently entrusted to the municipalities. I therefore believe that it will be particularly important to adopt the proposal as it stands, and would recommend that we vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1925	I would urge the SV Group to vote in favour of the proposal No. 1, 2 and 3 from the representative Inger Lise Husøy of the Workers' Party. The SV Group was also prepared to vote in favour of proposal No. 4, but since Hedstrøm turned it into a transmission proposal, we'll get rid of it. As regards proposal No: 2, a significant part of the inter-pellant’s problems in connection with this is precisely about control measures. That's why I think it might be a little bit of a riddle to say that this is not supposed to interfere with the government, if a significant tool now to get something done about it, is control. In this case, the government must have the opportunity to propose both what the municipalities are going to do and to give ideas about what the municipalities can do.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1932	The President has taken note of the explanations of vote given. Proposal No. 4, from Øystein Hedstrøm, has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended to the Government to consider a scheme whereby, in order to obtain gifts and operating rights in the restaurant industry, liability insurance must be taken out in the same way as other industries. This insurance must cover the liability of the operating company for taxes and charges related to business activities and wages and salaries. The provision of such an insurance scheme is presumed to be drawn up by insurance undertakings on the basis of normal competitive criteria.» The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President will then propose the following voting arrangements for proposals No. 1 – 3: First vote on proposal No. Secondly, on the proposal No. 1 and 3 in total. – No objections have been raised, and this is what will be done. Proposal No. 2 is added to the vote. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to review and submit proposals for enhanced control and better coordination of control measures in the restaurant industry.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1959	It is then put to the vote on the motions for resolutions. 1 and 3. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to evaluate the effect of the food law within two years and to inform the Storting of the results in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government in the context of the State budget for 2000 to explain how to strengthen control and work against unregistered/black labour in the restaurant sector.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1979	During the debate, Mr Danielsen presented five proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. The President will first deal with proposal No. 2, which reads: ‘The Government is asking the Government to make proposals which make it impossible to impose lower penalties than conditional imprisonment for gross insurrection.’ This proposal has been withdrawn. The President shall make explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e1991	As regards proposal No: 1, we believe that it must be up to the Oslo police to dispose of the forces as best they can, and even if we agree with the intention that near-police is important, I would recommend our group to vote against the proposal, if it is maintained. As regards proposal No: 3, the Council of State has referred to work already in progress in relation to one class at the Police College. Further expansion should be considered by the Ministry before any decision is taken in the Stortinget. If Danielsen maintains the proposal, I would recommend our group to vote against. With regard to proposals Nos. 4 and 5, I point out that in other contexts the Justice Committee has expressed its opinion on this in a broader context and will recommend that Danielsen re-examine these two proposals for transmission proposals. If they are maintained, I would recommend the Workers' Party to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e2000	As regards proposal No: 1, it involves urban police in all parts of Oslo – 25 urban police departments, and it will be very expensive to administer. I am not sure whether the Oslo Police Chamber wants that, so I would recommend voting against the proposal. As regards proposal No: 3, as the Council of State had in mind, already initiated such a scheme, and it would therefore be unnatural to vote in favour of a proposal to grant the necessary funds before Easter. I would recommend that the proposal be sent, if not right-wing vote against it. Proposals Nos. I see 4 and 5 as proposals that have already been partially adopted in the Stortinget. The proposals have a slightly unclear text. I would therefore recommend that they be sent. If they are not sent, I recommend that the Right supports them. However, I would like to warn the proposer in particular against maintaining proposal No. 5 – in the event of rejection – because we already have a work assignment to the Government, adopted in the Grand Duchy before Christmas, to investigate the rapid judicial system. Getting it down today will therefore be very unfortunate in relation to ongoing work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e2009	The Labour Party representative made some explanations of vote. I'm not going to repeat them, because that's pretty much in line with what we also mean. I would recommend that the centre parties vote against proposal No. 1, if it is not drawn, against proposal No. 3, because it has already been implemented and could be drawn, and also against the proposals No. 4 and 5 because it has already been decided that this should be investigated.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e2016	I would recommend that the SV Group vote against proposal No. 1, and it's simply because it's too hard to force the Oslo Police Chamber to set up a police station in each city. I think maybe a system of slightly larger regions and so-called police posts could be a more efficient and appropriate way of getting closer contact between the police and the population. As regards proposal No: 3, if I don't think at all it's a serious proposal – it's partly implemented. I have not asked the Oslo Police Chamber whether it is effective to use more students from Easter. First, they may need a little more follow-up than other patrolling police do, and second, I think that if the Advance Party really meant this, they should put in a concrete proposal with chapter, mail and allocation – for Easter I am not very far away. We support the intention of the proposal, but we don't think this is the way to do it. With regard to proposals Nos. 4 and 5, we support the intention of both. I see it as turning open doors in relation to things the government is already working on, and encourages the proposer to turn them into transmission proposals. I am very much afraid that, in particular, proposal No. 5, if it gets wasted over, it's going to be downgraded. We encourage the SV's group to vote in favour of it if it's nevertheless taken up to voting, but it's not political wisdom if that happens.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e2025	As regards proposal No: 3, it's not implemented at all. It's about a small part – i.e. 62 – of the number of police students we have today, as the Government has indicated that they may want to use them. It is therefore directly wrong to present it as if it were... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e2030	The President notes that no new posts need to be kept, but decides whether the proposals should be maintained or re-adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e2033	My conclusion is that all four proposals from the Progress Party are maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e2038	So it's clear. Several have not asked for the floor for an explanation of vote. We can go to voting. The President has noticed various signals and will propose that we vote in this order: first of the proposals No. 1 and 3 and examined the proposals Nos. 3 and 4, which the President assumes we must also vote separately after the explanations of vote given. With that in mind, we are going to vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to establish an extended system of urban police in Oslo as soon as possible, so as to ensure close police in all parts of Oslo.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e2056	Proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for necessary appropriations to enable students at the Oslo Police College to take weekend, public holidays and evening shifts as patrol officers in the Oslo Centre from the coming Easter.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e2072	Proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party, taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to streamline and enforce the dispute resolution system in order to capture offenders under the criminal detainee as soon as possible.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e2088	Proposal No. 5, from the Advance Party, taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to introduce a rapid court in order to establish a rapid procedure in cases where young offenders are involved.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e2155	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? Carl I. Hagen, please. Advise the proceedings
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e2161	I ask for the floor in connection with the first paragraph of Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure to point out what I believe is a procedural error. The explanations of vote relating to case No. 5th@item: inlistbox There were a wide range of explanations of vote, which were, in fact, new contributions to the debate and contained concrete misstatements. Then the club was given a response to these incorrect information. I think that was correct, but it should have been the club earlier when several of the people who gave the explanation of vote actually made contributions. I think it would make sense if the Presidency looked at this little bit with explanations of vote, so that you might know what a explanation of vote should contain – and even more importantly, what it should not contain. It is not possible for anyone to be allowed to make new speeches, while those who are being attacked are not allowed to defend themselves. I therefore ask the Presidency to discuss this with explanations of vote, so that they are largely guided to their own representatives and brief reasons why a position has been taken, and not what happened to the explanations of vote in Case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-10.ana.ud353e2173	The President has noticed what was said. Several have not asked for the word.
