ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e27	The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: André Kukkestad and Rikke Lind For Northern Ireland: Lisbeth Holand For Telemark County: Marthe Scarning Lund
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e61	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Odd Roger EnoxenState Council Selected City of Reply Haugland State Council Guro Fjellanger The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Børge Brende.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e80	I have a question for the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. For the financial year 2000, the Ministry of Finance has calculated the effects of the Government’s proposal on the removal of the deduction of dependants and the conversion of child benefit. It will ‘reduce support for barely 910,000 children, while barely 140 000 children will benefit from the conversion in 2000.’ Does Svarstad Haugland dispute the figures from its own finance department? I hope she doesn't misjudge the whole thing by talking about what the effects will be in a decade's perspective. After all, the effects of next year's budget are the responsibility of the Council of State. Does the Council of State think it is a good policy for distribution that nine children receive less support for one child to have more?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e89	No, I don't doubt numbers that come from the Ministry of Finance, and I'm not naive either, as Today's Business wrote – they say I didn't know that this was the effect of letting us talk about child welfare. We have an agreement between the Centre Party and the Right and the Advance Party, the cash support agreement, and it says: ‘These parties agree that different support schemes for young people aged between 16 and 18 should be considered in greater detail, including the proposal to extend the amount of child benefit to 18 years without increasing the total amount. ‘... Then it's actually obvious to me – and I thought it's kind of funny that the representative doesn't even think so far – that if we're going to spend the same money on more kids, it's going to be less per. years per year. a child. But the vast majority of children come when they're 16, to experience that parents get child welfare for them for two more years, and that's where the service is for our whole youth school. If we were to change child welfare without anyone losing anything for the next year, we had to have more healthy money into the child-rescue pot. This government has not been able to give priority to it, and so we arrive at a result where those who receive child protection get about. NOK 100 per year. a month less per month. Children next year – and next year and next year – but when children are 16 years old, one more child-rescue for two more years. I actually thought it was a good arrangement for the families of children, and I am optimistic and hope that this will be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e99	First, I have to say that I think it's well done by the Council of State to get NOK 1 700 less a year to get NOK 100 less a month. I must also say that it is at least a progress that the Council of State now admits that nine out of ten children come out worse. An investigation of this was made to determine whether it was a good arrangement, but it was not in fact in the agreement that it should be promoted if the investigation showed that it was not sound from a policy point of view. So, of course, the Council of State should not promote a proposal that will weaken the economy of families with children and that will contribute, as I said, to the fact that nine out of ten children come out worse. It's a bit of comfort to most of the families with children that you'll get a little better from a decade's perspective. After all, 1/4 million will come out worse, too, especially those who use kindergarten when the children are between one and three years old. And the Council of State may be aware that most families of children do not live in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e104	The Minister of Children is aware of that – none of us do. What I want to underline is that the amount of $1,700 per person. years arise because of the way in which the Ministry of Finance calculates price adjustment even when it relates to family benefits. Child welfare has not been subject to price adjustment since 1992. It is not new that a government provides a child benefit without price adjustment. I think Børge Burnde is aware of the socio-economic models used by the Ministry of Finance. I also think Børge Brende is aware of the difference of 1700 kroner and 1 300 kroner in relation to that particular perspective. What is the real difference between the payment of child benefit in years compared to next year is approximately. NOK 100. It's going to be exactly $1304 per. I guess it's 100 kroner per year. month. What I'm wondering is that the Right doesn't yet discover that when we're distributing 18-year-olds, it actually has to be a little less per. years on all children, and that they now make a number of what is in the contract: ‘without increasing the total amount’. [[The President clubs.]] I am tempted to ask Børge Brende how he can distribute a sum of money to several children without anyone getting any less per. month.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e111	It's about time. There will be follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e114	The representative Burnde likes to seize that opportunity, but it doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e119	That opportunity doesn't get Børge Burnde.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e123	It would have been nice to hear it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e128	We have become used to the fact that it is the state councils that ask the Storting and not the other way around. I will then take the opportunity to respond, and say that I am surprised that after two years of negotiations with the Advance Party and the Right, a Council of State from the Christian People's Party believes that the Right will participate in a tax tightening for families with children, even though the Council of State is now in a snarly way presenting it as a joyous message to the families of children that they get $1,700 less to go with the year from next year. I wonder how to get such a mindset to jump. Should you get an answer to this question, it would have been an opportunity for representatives of the Government to have asked the parties who have signed the agreement in advance about an assessment of what it was like. It has not been done, despite invitations from, among other things. Right-wing parliamentary leader. Here, the blind have been fattened, and a result has been presented, which is now confirmed by the Council of State, namely that families with children are generally weakened, and that this group should be withdrawn approximately. 700 million. kr over the government budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e133	I have in the election campaign, in the summer and in our talk that I wanted to expand the child's privacy to 18 years. Every time this has been up as a theme, I've said that I don't have any more money to add to my childhood, so it has to be a little less per. Children per day month of the year to come. This one gets when the children are 16 years old. I have never tried to hide it, and I repeat what is in the agreement: one should pay this “without increasing the total amount.” The government has just moved forwards. We have proposed a change, we have both proposed and distributed. The numbers that appeared in today's business were not unexpected to me. And at the press conference when I presented the budget to the Ministry of Children and Family, I actually underlined that most children get about. 100 kroner less per day. month to next year than what they get in real dollars today. I've never tried to hide that. So one might wonder if this is a big tax sharpening or if many parents will feel that what they get back when their children are 16, is actually so much worth it that it's 100 centimeters per. month to lose in time until then. [[President clubs]] It's up to the Storting to decide, and then we'll see.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e142	The President is asking for respect for speaking time. Trond Helleland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e147	It is good that the government follows up the budget agreement last year and wants to increase the cash support to NOK 3000, but it is not as good that the government is once again trying to finance this by taking money from the families of children who do not receive cash support. The Ministry of Finance's proposal for taxes and charges has just withdrawn the deduction as a financing of the cash support. And I guess it wasn't meant – at least not from the Right – to fund the cash support with tax incentives for other families. The government admits that nine out of ten children come out worse next year, but no government can guarantee what their parents will receive about, for example. 10 years. With the government's proposal, we now know that there will be seven lean years, but we don't know if there will be seven fat years after that, and so the Right will go against this proposal. It's kind of taking from one and giving to the other.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e156	I am still uncertain about the calculation for the Right – how they would get this to go up without increasing the amount. It takes a magician to do it. At least I can't explain it. What the government has actually proposed when it comes to the removal of the care allowance is to add the care allowance to the child benefit, so that it is now paid in dollars and cents per person. instead of being a tax deduction on income as it is today. There is nothing to take from child families. I'm told that part of the Ministry of Finance's text in this area is somewhat confusing, but the main reason why these 700 million people are being picked up time and time again is that we haven't adjusted the price of child welfare this year, something that hasn't been done for many years. Now we've got a raise for children's families of 2-3 billion kroner the years we've been in government [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e165	Rolf Rekvam – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e168	Whether this is a large or small tax consolidation may not be the most important thing, but at least it means a fairly large redistribution within the family group. That's what's important here. What surprised me was that the Council of State, when she started referring to the agreement, said that it was in a way the agreement between the Right and the Advance Party that caused her to submit this redistribution proposal. So then my question becomes to the Council of State: if the Christian People's Party and the Government were free and not bound by that agreement, would they have put forward such a proposal with such an extensive redistribution within the group of families with children? I think it would be interesting to know if that is the agreement itself, whether that is the right turn of the policy, which is why the Government is now presenting such a redistribution.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e173	I'd like to distance myself from the fact that it's a right turn of policy to expand the child's rights to children is 18. I don't really understand the basis for the question. I cannot answer if we had tabled this proposal if we had not had the agreement with the Right and the Advance Party, because I do not know what the discussion in the Government would have been like without it. I should also not try to tell you what had been the result. In the Christian People's Party's program, it says that we want to work for child welfare for 18 years, but we are several parties together, and so I can't answer a clear yes or no. What is quite clear from my point of view is that the agreement gave me the courage to continue working on this issue. I actually thought – the same way Per-Kristian Foss says that I am making this proposal – that it is a good proposal, and I know that there are a lot of families with children who are happy that we have done it. And then we'll see. I hope it will survive the Storting too. Whether the care allowance goes into the child's care allowance or it's done in the old way, it's not the most important thing for me, the most important thing for me is to have a child's pension of 18 years.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e178	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e181	I have a question for the Minister for Child and Family Affairs about child protection. We have seen that since 1994, expenditure has increased sharply. There is a clear symptom that the situation is serious for the most vulnerable children and young people. You don't get public institutions, but you're going to have to buy it on the private market, often more expensive and maybe not as good quality either. Can the Minister for Children and Family Affairs assure us that the most vulnerable children and young people receive the optimal offer that the public can give them, regardless of the economic situation around the counties and municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e189	It is difficult for me on behalf of both the municipalities and the county councils to answer a clear yes, that I can ensure that these children get the best supply we have. But I'm very worried about some of these suggestions that we see, and I'm very happy that we from the Department and the Government have actually invested in methods that I think give a better result than part of the institution's practice that we have in child protection today. Which probably everyone knows, we put down some special schools for a few years ago. Some of them have been converted into institutions. We've also had a huge lack of psychiatry. A lot of these children are in the border between psychiatry and child protection, and then child protection has them. So child protection has great challenges today, and they've had it. We have captured it in such a way that we have tried to transform some methods from, among other things. The U.S., which assumes that the most repressed children will get help in close contact with their families, and then a non-institution needs them. There have been very good results in America from these methods. We have also mentioned it in the draft budget. This is a method that should apply to all counties. We've had a pilot project in some county municipalities until now. I sincerely hope that this can contribute to raising child protection, and I also sincerely hope that these measures will be so good that these children, who in many ways are the losers in society, will be helped to cope. We also see today in the papers that many of those in the institution are not receiving help that is permanent. Research shows that if they can get help in the community, preferably in collaboration with their families, there is a greater chance that it can be helpful and not just the time they might be at an institution. I have good faith in the new methods, and I sincerely hope that there will be a good offer for our children.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e196	Jon Olav Alstad – for additional questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e199	It might have been an advantage for the Council of State today if she had been involved in the preventive measures proposed by the Workers' Party last year, but I should not go into it further. What can also be the situation, based on these media surveys, which indicate that institutional facilities are expensive and poorer than the provision that is optimal for some of these children, is that because of the developed system, children receive institutional places instead of the optimal offer, which will often be cheaper. But because the bill is sent elsewhere, these children get a worse offer than they would otherwise have. Can the council assure us that she will look at this, so that we get a system that doesn't work that way that kids get a worse offer than what's best we can give them?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e206	Here there is a balance sheet, whether a council and a government are to intervene in the municipality and the county's plans for child protection. I've also seen examples in newspapers today that show that the municipalities come out cheaper with the use of institutions, because they don't pay the entire bill themselves. I am concerned that we need better coordination between municipalities and municipalities, so that funds are deployed in the best possible way, for the benefit of the young people who are in the framework. I've downloaded a selection led by Edvard Befring to give you an option if you don't. They're going to go through the entire child protection, the offer we have, the law, the forster home issue, etc. I expect that they will also address the issues raised in the last few days in the papers, to see how we can facilitate the provision of the best for young people by government authorities. I don't think that's the cheapest way we do it either. The municipalities may come out cheaper, but the county gets the bill, and the children often suffer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e211	There will be follow-up questions – Ane Sofie Timberås.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e214	I assume that the Council of State knows the conditions of child protection in Moss, where we have a situation where professionals end up in the building and the former child protection manager has characterized it as chaotic conditions. In the media, we were recently presented with a matter from Moss, which, for the outside world, is very alarming, without being aware of the details in it. A severely disabled nine-year-old shall be taken out of the home she has been in all her life, and the county member has turned against previous decisions in the matter. I wonder how the Council of State will deal with reports of such conditions as those currently in force in Moss. Can the Council of State reassure me and all the others involved in this area that, despite economic crackdowns, despite claims of chaos and unacceptable conditions, the most important thing is to ensure the legal certainty of each child? That must be the primary purpose of child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e219	Now, as the representative says, it's hard to go into details here. But we have legislation in relation to foster parents and parents themselves that requires that if the child has been with foster parents for a long time, there should be strong reasons for it to be moved. As the representative probably also knows, I don't have the power to reverse his decisions. But I have asked myself for more information on this matter. I've also asked for a look at what we can do. The subject is responsible, but I use the channels I have, both for information and to see what we can do to influence, so that this child can be there in our view. I am currently only familiar with the cases from the media. That's why I'm not going to say anything more about it, except that it seems incomprehensible to all of us what has appeared in the media. I'll promise to follow up the case. I'm also going to promise to follow up the situation in Moss. We have also contacted the county council to move on.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e224	Then we go to a new main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e227	I want to ask a question to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. Studies show that the differences in supply for care-seeking elderly people and resources of the elephants in the primary school are large from the municipality to the municipality. For example, an example is that the resource use of elephants in the base sphere varies from approximately NOK 30,000 to over NOK 100000 per person. student. Does it worry the Council of State that we get such an inequality in the supply of citizens from the municipality to the municipality? Will the Council of State take the initiative in assessing the funding system, in order to provide a level playing field for all citizens, especially when it applies to caregivers and elephants in the basic school, without regard to the country as a cage and without regard to the local economy and priority?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e234	First, the government is concerned that municipalities should have a significant degree of freedom of action in relation to how they choose to perform their tasks. It is not the case that resource use is a unilateral answer to what kind of offer you have, whether in the case of the elderly or in the case of the school. We have a country that is diverse in terms of geography and population composition. In it it is that it is actually more expensive to drive, for example. schools in municipalities which live in many islands and in many schools, which you must have if you are to maintain such a scattered settlement. This makes the use of resources in those schools slightly higher. But when that is said, we also – as I have announced in the context of the treatment of the municipal economic proposition in our – intend to go through the income system again with a view to looking at the distribution effects and looking at the possibilities to address the need for the most equal provision of services across the country. So it's not the same thing as resource use is going to be the same across the country, but service provision is going to be the same as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e239	We can do that to some extent. But the point here is that there's not an equivalent supply for everyone as needed, as we want. It is gratifying that the Council of State will take the initiative to review the income system. In the Rattsø Committee’s position, it is stated that an ear-marked form of subsidies, which is funded by government through unit-price financing, is rationalising, streamlining and will lead to better use of the funds that will then be available. In its assessment, the Council of State would take into account the fact that the State assumes financial responsibility for the primary school, for the care of the elderly, and that this is carried out by means of a single price financing per year. students, per year; caring for the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e245	As I said, at least this Council of State intends to go the opposite way, namely that the municipalities should have greater freedom of action. That doesn't mean you have to have different offers. It's possible to combine the use of free money with equal offers. To a large extent, it is up to the municipalities themselves to give priority to what they choose to use the funds for. I am of the opinion that a large degree of earring is the most inefficient way we can do this, because it leads to more bureaucracy, more control – the very opposite of what Solholm wants. Then it's also so that there are actually large cost differences around the country. As I said in my first answer, it depends on geography, population composition, etc. This means that the use of ear tagging must involve a highly differentiated system to be targeted in relation to the different parts of the country in order to have a similar offer. This makes it possible to implement bureaucratically and cumbersomely.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e252	There will be follow-up questions – Torbjørn Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e255	We know that the use of money for both the school and older sectors may vary considerably from municipality to municipality. Then it's not so strange that the offer to the elderly, sick and schoolchildren is not at all as equivalent as we like to believe in this country. In Norway, we have a system in which both the scale and the level of public supply still depend to a large extent on how good the economy of each municipality is. Such a system can never guarantee a national equivalent offer to the individual. It should not continue that way. The Progress Party therefore wants government direct funding for both care and school, precisely to ensure that everyone is given the most equivalent offer, regardless of whether they live in a poor or rich municipality. In fact, I believe that most people in this country agree with us in this view. I hope the Council of State is too.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e260	The Council of State has stated that it is an objective that everyone should receive the most equivalent offer possible. I think that's actually the best thing to do by using free money, that the municipalities should be free to do in terms of how to solve their problems. Of course, it means that you have a financial framework to do that. But I believe basically that knowledge is fairly equally distributed in this country, and that also the people elected in the municipalities are able to assess how best to solve the problems and give their citizens the best possible offer. I think you do that by having access to the funds as you want and think you should use them from local circumstances, not through strong government, as I record that the Progress Party wants.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e265	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e268	The difference between services provided by municipalities and municipalities is a problem. One way to tackle it could be to give clearer rights and set some more minimum standards for services that would be the same across the country. Does the Council of State see that there can be a way to go, at least one opportunity that one should exploit better than one has made today? Does the Council now see that there may be a direct lack of resources and a lack of consistency between resources and the tasks of municipalities, which is the main reason for the large differences in service provision around the country?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e273	The Central Association of Municipalities has pointed out on various occasions that there is no agreement between the expectations of government authorities as to the kind of tasks to be undertaken in the municipalities and the means available to solve them. So it's, as Andersen's representative says, a misunderstanding between assigned tasks and financial resources to solve them. That is why the Government has also said that we want to consult with the Municipal Councils in order to bring about a better match between what kind of tasks we expect the municipalities to solve and the financial frameworks that are put at their disposal. That's the one grip we want to do. In the case of minimum standards, we have this in some areas, but it does not solve the basic challenges, that there must be consistency between the signals given by the central authorities on the tasks to be prioritised and the financial framework of the municipalities. Our goal is that there should be as much equal service provision as possible throughout the country. Municipalities must have a financial framework in place to carry out their tasks, but it will always be such that the need to solve new tasks will be greater than that envisaged by the economy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e280	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e283	My question goes to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs – to follow up a little where we left off. Without a good community economy, we know that care for the elderly is getting poor, the schools are getting bad and the hospital queues are increasing. Now the Right, who was a budget associate for the last two years, has presented a draft budget that I cannot give in detail, but the main features of it are at least severe cuts in the municipal sector – SEK 6 billion on the free revenues, and certainly something plus the earring, DKK 1.1 billion in direct regional aid, which is also the responsibility of the municipal minister, and SEK 100 million. kr less in housing allowances. If there is now such a disparity that the Council of State agreed with me in the previous round of questions, does he see any kind of possibility of making a settlement on such a basis? And can the Council of State describe how such cuts as the Right Budget proposal now represents would affect the quality of school and care in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e290	First of all, it is not the task of the Council of State to consider the draft budget of the Right. Nor do I see at the time when there are budgetary discussions between the central parties and the Workers' Party, any intention to speculate on the possibilities of reaching an agreement with parties other than those with which they are actually negotiating. But let me now say that the honour should be at least right that you have actually not done such steps as the representative Andersen now describes. Some redistributions have been carried out within the local economy, which means that there is more tax and less in the framework transfer, the degree of designation is increased, as Andersen's representative says, but it is not a cut in the municipal economy of SEK 6.1 billion. In the Right's Alternative Budget, it's about the same amount as the Government's estimated, except on a few essential points. Firstly, the Right introduces significant tax reliefs that reduce the income of the local government sector because of a reduction in the tax base. Secondly, it is proposed to remove the care allowance, which represents a loss of tax for the municipal sector of DKK 1.6 billion. This means that if, as the Right says in its alternative budget, you go back to the taxpayer we have today, that is, if you increase it by 1 pst, the local government sector will have a loss of income. That's what the Right Budget says, but $6 billion is definitely not going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e297	I notice that the Council of State does not want to describe what the impact of such cuts would look like in Kommune-Norway, but I only note that we agreed that the imbalance is now high, and that it will increase with a budget line that gives less resources to the municipalities. Is it not then that the government is moving even further away from some of the objectives of the Adult Declaration, which was just to close this gap between the incomes received by the municipalities and all the major, important tasks imposed on the municipalities by the State, the Government and the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e303	Yes, but this government intends to try to reach a budgetary agreement with those we negotiate with, just to get at such an allocation as we want, and just to get the most out of what is in the Government's budget. I have corrected the misunderstandings in relation to the draft budget by Mr Andersen. But it is that with the cuts proposed by the Right in district aid, in allocations for example. agricultural purposes, the cuts that will lie within the municipal sector, although not as large as Andersen’s representative says, will have a major impact on the ability of municipalities to carry out the tasks and to achieve the objectives set by this government in the rural policy. That's perfectly obvious. But the cuts are not of such size as Andersen's representative refers to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e308	There will be follow-up questions – Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e311	I am pleased that the Council of State has obviously been more involved in the consequences for the local government sector of the budget line of Righteous Affairs than the representative Karin Andersen has done. On the other hand, the councils also made a mistake in their considerations about it. We always do it so that the tax relief we give we complete through ordinary cuts in the budget. And it will be done in relation to the notes. So our tax breaks won't mean less local economy. Our municipal framework is similar to that of the Government, with a little difference for the county councils, because we're transferring a little more money to income-driven financing. At the same time, our budgeting involves important costs for municipalities, including: we do not address the price increase resulting from the electricity charge increase. In a debate here in the Stortingen last year, Morten Lund characterised the budget structure, which was created by a compromise between the government parties, the Right and the Advance Party, as a better arrangement for the municipalities than the government had proposed. These are the exact same elements in the structure of the municipalities that the Right now provides. [[The President clubs.]] Don't the Council of State agree that the municipalities will de facto come out better overall with the Right Order than with the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e318	The President must remember the speaking time once again.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e321	No, I disagree with that. The electricity charge is an element of this, but then there are other elements that make the municipal sector look worse. And one of my main appeals to what's in the Right's proposal is that just the tax reliefs proposed by the Right, and just the withdrawal of a dependant deduction, in fact, implies that the taxpayer needs to be significantly increased beyond what is today's taxpayer, if the municipalities are to have the same income as they have today. Such an approach would result in a significant redistribution from tax-weak to tax-intensive municipalities. This means that the rich municipalities actually get more income with the Right Order and the poor municipalities less. It is one of the elements that, in my opinion, the Right has overlooked quite sovereignly in its budget line, because when you choose to take such a large proportion of the income via tax, it represents such redistribution for the benefit of the tax-paying municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e326	Sylvia Brustad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e329	Instead, the Council of State said that there is a disproportionate relationship between the tasks to be carried out by municipalities and the economic resources they have. I agree. That is why I was somewhat surprised by the municipal structure that the government provided, which I do not think will take care of this. We are now in negotiations, and I assume that the Council of State wants to reach agreement with us here. One of the requirements we have is a billion more dollars in the free income of the municipalities. I would like to hear if the Council of State believes that the municipal structure proposed by the Workers' Party is better than what the Right has now presented, and if the Council of State believes it would be good for the municipalities, so that the municipalities will be better able to carry out the tasks they are assigned if one gets an agreement with the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e336	This council had never imagined that he would be allowed to be a sensor between who has provided the best budgets of the Right and the Workers' Party. Let me rather answer what the representative Brustad asked about in relation to the municipality layout. In fact, instead of first referring to the KS, I said that there is a misunderstanding between the tasks and the funds that the municipalities get at their disposal. Secondly, the government has fulfilled to the point and dot what we promised in our municipal proposition. So in addition, we've added half a million dollars in addition to what's been said in our community economics proposition. However, the municipal sector has many tasks to do; it is a tight scheme for the municipal sector, which places local politicians at the expense of major tasks in order to meet the expectations that we all have of how the municipal sector is to perform its tasks. The older reform that we are now in the process of implementing is a huge effort, which requires considerable resources, including for the municipalities, and I have said in the past that it is a tight scheme and will be demanding for the municipal sector to implement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e341	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e344	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment. Another request has been made for the management of the wolf in Norway. There is a great need to clarify what is policy in this area. The government's answer so far has been unclear and bears witness to the paralysis of action. Seven-eight months ago, the Directorate for Nature Management, to the Ministry of the Environment, put forward a proposal on protection zones for wolves. This proposal has remained in the ministry. The State Secretary of the Ministry of the Environment has requested that the wolf be given a sanctuary in southern Hedmark, in eastern Akershus and in eastern Eastfold. But both the Minister of State and his Secretary of State confirm that there will be active work in the Government to prevent the planned Wolfesona from becoming as intended. In the light of these unclear and conflicting signals from the Government, I will ask what is the real policy of the Government in this area – whether it is actually such that the Government is the action frame because of internal conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e351	I'm going to be the first to admit that the predatory game policy and the management of the wolf are one of the most difficult things we're working on, and that's of course because a majority of the Storting agrees that we have a two-part objective in the predatory game policy: we're going to combine it to take care of viable populations of the four large predators with being able to use outlaws for sheep and pure. The government has taken a number of active steps to clarify how the administration should be. Among other things, we have Just sent out to the hearing a proposal that involves some concrete changes to the game law, and it will facilitate more flexible and differentiated management than we have today. As early as 1997, the Storting said that it did not want to facilitate the use of wolves in areas of Sami domestic farming. The government also stated in ours that they did not want to facilitate the establishment of wolves in sheepy areas west of Glomma, and said that otherwise they would come back to the remaining parts of the district's land-zoning proposal. That's what the government will do in a short time. For us, it's important that this is done in good time before the next grazing season. We also see that once the consultation on the changes in the game law has been carried out and is due to the Storting in the new year, it is natural that the Stortinget also gets an overview of the losses and experiences of the year’s grazing season, and not least experience and evaluations of the prevention measures implemented. The government is actively working to combine seemingly conflicting objectives of the Stortinget and the majority and supported by the majority of the Government. This is difficult, but I hope and believe that the government's policy is clear.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e363	I have to sign that I hope so too, but the signals that have come so far do not mean that. It is such that the leader of one of the government parties has gone out and worked actively against this policy, and in fact claimed that there is a situation that is also going on internally in the government. It is important to clarify these questions. I have a follow-up question that goes a little bit side by side. We feel that there is a very excited atmosphere in many of the towns that are involved in the wolf, and I feel that a good part of the turmoil and excitement is not least due to a lack of information. For even if there is an internal conflict in the government, it should at least be agreed that now a person must go better with information than the case has been so far. My follow-up question to the Council of State about the Government will create a scheme and disseminate information about the wolf and its real significance for these communities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e370	The information work is part of a work already under way by the Government and as part of it has the Directorate for Nature Management, among others. have provided information to each household in some of the areas where the conflicts are greatest. We also want to have good information in this field in the future, and we are concerned about, among other things. to get some researchers on the field, not least to get a good dialogue and facts on the table about what are the real dangers associated with meeting predators and humans, and we are very busy meeting the fear that we see exist, in a constructive and good way. We just do that by spreading information and by having good transparency.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e375	There will be follow-up questions - Eirin Fallet
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e378	I believe, like the Council of State, that it is important to have a clarification, not least on the basis of this with core areas and I am pleased that the Council of State will now review it again. In the case of wolves, it is worth noting that there are a lot of people living in the area that the Council of State now sees as a nucleus. The farmers will be compensated – yes. Of course they are happy and dependent on that, but the matter applies more than that. It's pretty strong to find that cadavers the animals that you've been silent and happy about. I have registered that researchers now say that the wolf is not dangerous to humans. It could be. But the fear – have the scientists evaluated it? It is true that parents are anxious for young children when the wolf draws near residential areas.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e385	It's a little unclear to me what the representative refers to when she talks about what the Council of State sees as a core area. Very well known, the Council of State has not presented a nuclear domain. What I think is important is that, among other things, the proposals for changes to the game law we have sent out will mean that we have the possibility of a more active and differentiated management of wolves. I also want to stress that what is happening today is that the wolf has a very strict protection throughout the country. What would be the consequence, if any, of a type of land zoning, to which the Government will return, will be that the wolf will be given less stringent protection in some areas. That's a point that's often forgotten in the discussion. As the representative was inside, I am concerned that fear is real. I think, as I said in my previous answer, that the only way to meet that fear is with concrete information and full transparency. The Government will do its utmost to contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e396	Hallgeir H. Langeland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e399	Yes, this was a bit of a wasp ball. It seems to me that the government is on the defensive of the question. Then it's strange that one in budgetary terms is plotting to cut research and information, areas that can bring knowledge about the theme out to people just to dampen fear. The areas are some of it not bets on from the Government's page. It seemed to me to be something of a reason for not doing this to try to get on the offensive. One knows about projects, e.g. in Abruzzo, Italy, where a truly offensive effort is being made to expand a larger area for predators in general, areas larger than these nuclear areas that we have. It's quite successful; in fact, it works so that people move back to bow in some of these areas. There's a example of Italy. The Council of State, for example, wants: in cooperation with Sweden to bring a little more on the offensive, both in terms of knowledge and also in relation to concrete projects?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e408	If it were such that this government really suggested less money for predatory research in next year's budget, I should have explained why. But it's a positive error. The lookup in the nations today refers to a specific budget line. As far as this entry is concerned, there has already been contact between the Research Council and the Ministry of Environmental Protection in order to look at the possibility of getting an increase in relation to the predatory parts. In addition to this item, significant funds have been allocated to wild game research, including: for file registration. I want to stress that the activity in this field has never been as large as it is now under this government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e413	There will be follow-up questions – Steinar Bastisen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e416	I have listened to both the questions and the answers, and I want to draw attention to the fact that it is only a matter of time before a youth is taken by the wolf. At least that's what people around the village are afraid of. When I raised this question already in the election campaign in 1997, it was partly ridiculed. I have asked questions, and I have made suggestions on the genetic testing of wolves, as there have been suspicions of deliberate release, and that there are hybrids that operate in the first place. What is the reason why the genetic testing results are not published, when the Directorate for Nature Management said they should initiate genetic testing? Why don't we know anything?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e425	I see that fear is real. A fear that exists is per. definition real. But I want to stress that we're talking about nature here. I assume that Steinar Bastesen also knows that dealing with nature in different fields, whether it is to go out to sea or it is to go out into nature and meet different animals, may be associated with a certain danger of confrontation or a certain danger of storm. Then it's important that we act in a way that reduces those dangers. Today, we know that there is a lot more risk of injury, for example. in meeting with elk than in meeting with wolf. I am concerned that we will receive as much information as possible about this on the table. I am therefore concerned that researchers are also actively contributing to a discussion in order to identify what is really at risk, and not least how to behave in that kind of situation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e433	I found that I did not receive an answer to the question of genetic testing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e438	There will be several follow-up questions – Hans J. Røsjorde.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e441	I'm going to go one step further in the big turbulent act. The protection of predatory game seems to be more important to the Council of State and the current government than the security of nutrition and people in areas where you feel insecure. A consequence of increased predatory populations is, of course, the fact that prey animals, in this context very often the deer, will be subject to increased pressure. Hunting deer and elk represents significant industrial development in the countryside and is an occupation of a great many Norwegians. My question is: is the Council of State concerned with the consequences of hunting deer game when assessing the size of predators? What will the Council of State do to achieve a proper balance in this respect?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e450	In the first place, the Council of State is concerned with following up the rapture message, which has been put behind by a majority in the Grand Duchy. This message states that we should take care of viable populations of the four large predators. It also goes in order to specify the size of the populations in order to be considered viable, while at the same time allowing for the use of demarcated baits for sheep and reindeer. I agree with the representative that there may be a conflict between predatory game and hunting game. Of course, we must also include that in the calculation of how stocks will be managed in the future. But it's a perspective that can only come in when we have viable populations. Let me briefly mention two issues that I did not raise in the previous round: of course, at the moment when there are results from genetic testing, we will ensure that they are published. This will include, inter alia: be subjected to genetic testing of the wolf applied in Eastfold. Like previous representatives, I am concerned that we should look at prevention measures, and that is why we have spent a lot of money in Rendalen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e461	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e464	My question goes to the Minister for the Environment. In the light of an increasing wolf population here to land and also a wolf debate, the Ministry of the Environment has proposed a change to the law that will facilitate the granting of breeding permits for peaceful predators, and that is to a large extent good. The predators that desidently take most sheep and clean are yup and yup. The problem with these predators is that they are very difficult to get killed, so you can't fill the quotas that are set. So my question to the Council of State is, what will the Council of State do to ensure that the entire quota of gloat and yew is taken, so that one avoids the enormous losses that some farmers have and thereby dampens the level of conflict between predators and sheep and reindustry?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e473	Let me first grab hold of the first representative Korsberg said in relation to the change in the game law. As I said earlier, an important reason why we have proposed this is that we want an active and differentiated management of, among other things. ulf. What we do, among other things, have done, is to clarify that we believe that one should be able to shoot if there is a real risk of damage to property or livestock – and not least if there is a real risk of harm to people. The last one is going to be a whole new point in relation to the game law. In the past, the police alone have had to make such decisions. The representative is also right that the biggest damage today is not related to the wolf, but to the loss after attack from the gaupe and yours. I've been concerned that we're going to have a management of also these predators that are in line with the population that is. This is also the reason why there have not been such large allowances in recent times, among other things. for hunting gloats, as in recent years. At the same time, we see that it is a challenge to take out the quota for which it is authorised, and I think the most important measure to ensure that it is, on the part of the authorities, that we contribute to training the hunters, so that we are sure that those who are going to hunt out have the best available expertise.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e480	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Now, I guess it's just the imagination that puts an end to how creatively and effectively you can get the quota on gloat and yerv. Hunting is not a pastime, it goes with a lot of time and resources to get these animals caught. It's very hard to get both gloat and yerv, it turns out that you can't get these quotas out. For the labelling of predators, both helicopters and snowmobiles are used. In the opinion of the Council of State, would it be a solution to use professional hunters or to allow the use of snowmobiles and helicopters to take out this quota, so that we can deal with the major problems this industry has?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e493	It is not only the imagination that limits the methods that can be used in hunting, it is the Berne Convention that Norway is obliged to do so. It is important to me that in the management of the large predators, too, we stick within the international conventions to which we are obliged. This means, among other things: that we have clear limits to, for example, use of motorised driving. The Berne Convention clearly states that motorised hunting should only take place where there are no other possibilities and where all other alternatives have been tested. So it's just exceptional that motorized hunting is an alternative. With regard to the question of professional hunters, I believe that it is better to move on to the strategy of the Government: to contribute in terms of the skills and training of the hunters we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e500	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e503	I would like to ask a question to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. In many press areas, a free housing market has led to housing reaching a price level that is beyond reason, in my opinion. In today's newspapers we see that in the housing laws, prices have increased by 22 pst. this year. In particular, there are three groups affected by such an increase in prices: young people who would like to live in the vicinity of their educational institution are young people who would like to enter the housing market for the first time, and a third group are those who, for some reason, need help from the municipality to find housing. Of course, then it is important to point to the House Bank, and the Labour Party and the government parties agree that it plays a major role. The framework of the Home Bank has also been proposed increased by NOK 2 billion. Of course, budgets mean a lot, but my question is whether we should not politically manage housing more than we do today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e515	The answer to the last question is conditionally yes. I think that in some areas it is necessary to manage the housing construction to a greater extent than what has been done. But let me first of all remind you that when housing prices increase as much as they do, it's actually because there's too little housing built. The municipalities also have a responsibility here, both to facilitate the regulation of residential areas and plots and to contribute to the construction of rental dwellings where necessary. In the next year's budget, the government has proposed to increase the Husbank's framework by DKK 2 billion, just to facilitate the situation for first-time start-ups, i.e. first-time purchasers, who are going into the housing market, in order to obtain access to reasonable housing. There is a very large difference in the development of housing prices around the country. In Oslo, for example, We see that in the center the housing prices have increased violently, they are almost twice as high as in other parts of the city. So also in some areas there is a wide variation in housing prices. It also says a little about the demand for housing: where most people want to live, housing prices are also the highest. The government's measures to reduce housing prices are, first of all, that we have increased the framework to the House Bank by NOK 2 billion. Secondly, in relation to rental dwellings, an increase in the housing allowance of 20 million has been introduced. kr. The government has also said that it will continuously follow developments in this area in the future and will return to the revised national budget with any measures to increase the construction of rental dwellings in order to meet the situation and demand of those who are the most disadvantaged and need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e524	In the press areas, as the Minister of State said, the land costs play a major role. But how can we influence the municipalities to become more aware of the planning of plots, so that prices should not be market driven? We have seen that in Oslo, young people have occupied an office building that Stadsbyg has had standing grounds for many years, and my question is, Why can we not re-dispose such buildings to residential space? We hear about big differences here. For example, Stavanger operates good land policy on the part of the municipality, while I put a question mark on how the municipality of Oslo does it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e531	Now it is a building owned by State Building – that is, the state – that is occupied. It is not the responsibility of the State to solve the housing problems of individual municipalities, it is the responsibility of the municipalities. In this context, it is up to the municipality of Oslo to find a solution to the housing problems in Oslo. This, of course, does not disclaim all responsibility from the state. The State shall also contribute by setting up a framework and facilitating the provision of accommodation to disadvantaged groups. The issue of land regulation is a municipal responsibility. It is a municipal issue, where municipalities should be aware that if young people are to be established, both reasonable plots and the lowest price of housing should be provided. This shows that there are different policies in different municipalities. It is a municipal responsibility, the municipalities have the right of self-determination and can determine the prices themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e538	There will be follow-up questions – Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e541	Despite the fact that the domestic rent increase in the country this year is an average of 21 p.m., the government says it should follow developments and wait and see – in a way following the line that the Workers' Party has followed before, and not taking a new approach to social housing policy. I notice that the Council of State places a great deal of responsibility on the municipalities. That is quite right, but I am calling for the responsibility of the state in the field of housing policy. Firstly, you have to go in with completely different funding to implement housing for people who have bad advice – people who have good advice are doing well, they're doing a market like what we have today. But if we're going to get to this, we're going to have to have funding, and then we're going to need cheap land. It is the responsibility of both the municipality and the state. The state sits with plots and building mass. I know that this is not the prime minister's table, but would nevertheless ask: does the Minister of State, who is responsible for the building of housing – and for social housing – intend to take the initiative to make use of the state's property, whether it is construction or land, to provide for, for example, for example. cheap plots for the building needed? [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e548	The President requests that the speaking time be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e551	The State does not sit on a housing stock that is – or may be – to be used for residential purposes. In addition, the property stock of the country is very differently distributed across the country. Nor is it the social housing demands that drive prices in the weather. Unfortunately, that group falls far away from the housing market, and the authorities have a responsibility to contribute to the organisation of housing. As I have said, we have made an important, strong uplift – only when we raised the Bank's lending framework by NOK 1 billion for the current year, and then by raising it by NOK 2 billion for the next year. We know that although the House Bank framework was raised by NOK 1 billion this year, the framework is exhausted before the year is over. That is why we have raised it by NOK 2 billion to next year, just to allow more people to access reasonable housing funding, which is an entry ticket for the first time in the housing market. It's an important step in the right direction, and we'll follow the development in relation to those who need the most rental homes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e558	Tomas Norvoll – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e561	On housing issues, there are particularly two major problems. One is that it is almost impossible for young people and new entrants to enter the market if they want to buy into the market. This means that they are not allowed to participate in the price increase that is in the rest of the market, the differences are increasing and it is becoming more difficult and more difficult to enter. I agree with the Council of State that it is essentially a municipal and county responsibility to facilitate the creation of reasonable plots and buildings, but at the same time, the Council of State, by virtue of being head of the Central Party, has a responsibility for the party's local politicians around to follow up this – and I feel that they do not. The second point is at youth rentals, not least for students. Now I am aware that there are negotiations between the Workers' Party and the Government on the budget, and if there is a box, there will be more to student housing. I would like to ask in general: does the Council of State – and the head of the Central Party – agree that in the years to come a big effort must be made to build student housing, in order to take the pressure away from the rest of the market?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e568	The amount of the bet is difficult to say, but the representative Norvoll has a clear point that building more student homes and getting students out of the regular house queue will also ease the pressure on the housing market. In particular, there are two groups on which the authorities should focus, for example: those who, according to social conditions, need to have reasonable dwellings or rental dwellings. The authorities shall contribute there. I have said that we will follow developments closely in the coming year, with a view to building more rental homes. The housing allowance has also been increased by 20 million. kr on next year's budget, and we will follow developments beyond that. The next point concerns the construction of student housing, where there is also an increase in next year's budget. I record in the same way as the representative Norvoll that these questions are also an element of the negotiations on the budget for next year. There's still to be seen what the result of it is.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e573	Last follow-up question – Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e577	It is possible to wonder, when the Council of State expresses concern that housing costs for people are increasing a lot: why does the Government then see it as an independent objective to increase these extras by increasing the tax base for the taxation of dwellings? It hits the newly established, and it hits those who own it. So it not only affects those who have had housing for a long time, but it affects those who have recently settled and bought a dwelling. In addition, we find it a little unfair by the Government when they argue with the high housing prices, and then it is likely that they choose to start by 1993 when they argue why they are going to increase the tax base for housing taxes. Looking at the situation between 1988 and 1993, the housing price fell in Norway. So now adjusted statistics show that between 1988 and now the EQS has increased more than the housing prices have increased in Norway. In addition, we know that there is a very biased distribution of the price increase of dwellings. Why, then, does the Council of State believe that there should be an increase in the tariff base and an increase in housing tax?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e584	The Stortinget has adopted a housing tax which is for treatment in the Ministry of Finance. This is mainly a matter dealt with by the Ministry of Finance, but the Government has put forward proposals to increase the tax by 10 pst. It involves some tax tightening, but for housing with a decent standard, it becomes marginal. When the representative Solberg asks about the concerns of the Government and the Council of State for those who need cheap housing, and about the price increase in the housing market, I would remind you that the deregulation of the housing market has not least been the right party a driver. Secondly, it is true that in the part of the country where housing prices have increased most in the current year, namely Oslo, the Right City Council has power, and one of the main reasons why housing prices have increased dramatically is the lack of regulation of new plots. This has led to too little construction of new dwellings.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e591	Then the time for the oral question procedure is over, and we go over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e596	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 7, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Fisheries, has been transferred to the Minister for Food and Trade who is responsible. The question will be answered by the Minister of Justice on behalf of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e608	I will be asked the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: «The future of 7 October 1999 and Hamar Arbeiderblad 14 October 1999 show that the monthly rent in newly built nursing homes can be very high. At Konnerud's residence and service centre at Drammen, rent including interest and rebates may amount to NOK 7 000-8 000. Such a high monthly cost can lead to people with normal incomes not being able to afford to live there. What does the Council of State think of such a level of prices, and can the Council of State consider any state leadership in relation to the level of prices?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e617	If it is true that rentals in new nursing homes can reach NOK 7 000-8 000 per year. the month claimed by the representative is of concern. The House Bank has not yet received an application from the municipality of Drammen for grants for nursing homes in Konnerud. I therefore do not know the costs associated with this project. After my experience, nursing homes are to be organised as housing laws. The grants for nursing homes and nursing homes go to the municipalities. It also applies if the dwellings are owned by persons other than the municipality. Care homes can be organised as housing units, self-occupied dwellings or municipal rentals. Municipalities may further award grants to, for example: law of residence with which the municipality cooperates or the municipality may retain the funds itself for care services related to the dwellings. House rentals in nursing homes will therefore vary from municipality to municipality. In the case of municipal care homes, it is up to the individual municipality to determine the rent. The State recommends that municipalities take rent on the basis of the costs of the dwelling, i.e.: «ordinary» means cost-effective rentals. This would result in higher rents than a general subsidisation of the rent, but low-income residents would be able to receive state housing support to cover up to a certain level of housing costs. We also recommend that municipalities use the compensation grant to establish their own municipal housing support schemes for residents with low incomes. Those who move into nursing homes have different financial resources, and in my and the Government's view, the use of government subsidies will not be targeted at reducing the rent to all residents regardless of their financial capacity. When examining the action plan for the care of the elderly, the Social Committee asked for a review of the plan after two years. The government will provide such a review as its own forecast for spring. In this context, it would be natural to look at the issue of costs related to the construction of nursing homes and nursing homes and to assess the cost limits of NOK 740000 per year. housing and NOK 830 000 per year. space should be increased. But I would like to stress that these limits also contribute to the state having some control over costs. The house bank assumes that the costs associated with the construction of nursing homes are reasonable. But there is a cost pressure in this area, which I have been in the Questionnaire earlier today, and the municipalities have an independent responsibility to try to mitigate cost developments.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e630	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am pleased that the Council of State shares my concern about the prices that we can now see developing in, among other things. The drama in the case of nursing homes. I hope that the Council of State also agrees with me that we must prevent nursing homes from becoming a good thing for the few; it should be a good thing for all older people regardless of whether you are a minimum pensioner or have something more money. It means that it's important that you go through this development carefully. I would like to ask the Council of State again whether he is willing to go in and put concrete leads in relation to the price level in the big news that is announced to the spring, and which I am pleased to be coming, where there will also be an evaluation of the price level. Because it's clear that if we get into the situation that we unfortunately now see in several municipalities, that even though a seller has a debt-free dwelling, one might have to borrow to move into a nursing home, we're creating a distinction between who can live there and who can't live there. We must prevent such developments.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e639	I can confirm that the Council of State will follow developments closely in the future. It's important, as I said in my first answer, that the measures to reduce the rent used by the state are focused on those who have the worst economy, and who need it the most. That's point one. Secondly, the development of the rent, as the representative Brustad asked for, will be followed closely. The third thing that I want to emphasise is the autonomy of municipalities to provide for reasonable housing and a standard and size of the housing that allows users with different needs to meet their needs. This means that there should be both small apartments and larger apartments so that the rental costs can be as reasonable as possible for those who do not need large dwellings. This is a responsibility that the municipalities have in particular, and I want to look at how they are being followed up by the municipalities in relation to the construction in the future – i.e. to build with a sober and adapted standard.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e648	I am pleased that the Council of State stresses the importance of paying attention to the nights, but of course good housing, in order to prevent the price level from running smoothly. Then one might also interpret it as that the Council of State shares my concern about what is now, among other things. happens in the Drama, because it might not be the cheapest project selected, but maybe on the contrary, that makes us come up at the price level that we're actually doing. Then I also want to make the following comment: It is clear that we have the housing support scheme, and it is correct and important. But we don't have to stand in such a situation that almost everyone who's going to move into nursing homes becomes dependent on housing support to get there. That was not the purpose of the arrangement either. We have to work together to make sure that the price level does not become so that it becomes just for a few. Then I hope that the Council of State and the Government in the announced announcement will come up with some concrete tools to ensure that we do not see situations like ours, among other things. have seen in Drammen, and unfortunately also in a number of other municipalities, but that we prevent that from being the price level we operate at in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e655	Yes, I can only confirm that I share the representative's concerns in this area. If we were to have a development where more and more people are becoming dependent on housing support schemes in order to benefit from municipal housing, there is an unfortunate development that we should definitely be looking at, so that we can find other solutions to it. But once again, it is primarily a municipal responsibility to facilitate the most reasonable solutions and to facilitate the size of the apartments that allow them to be adapted to the needs of individuals, so that they can also be selected according to the economy and needs in relation to the size of the tenant in a nursing home.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e665	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘In May 1999, the deadline for consultation was for the simplifications in the building case procedure which the right of last year asked to be assessed. The week before the municipal elections, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs was happy to announce that the building regulations were now simplified. No new regulations have yet been put in place. Can the Council of State explain where these simplifications have been?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e674	The consultation period for the proposal for amendments to the rules on construction proceedings expired on 25 May. Since then, the Ministry has assessed a significant number of proposals for simplifications in addition to the consultation proposal. This has taken some time, but I am aiming for the regulatory changes to be adopted in November. These changes include the extension of access to the notification for 30-50 m2 detached buildings which are not intended for residential use, e.g. double garage. Building measures requiring a derogation may be treated as a notification or derogation if the derogation has been granted and the measure otherwise provides for such a treatment. The exemption from the obligation to use the application is clarified. The documentation in case of application is simplified. The requirement for the approval of persons responsible is waived in the case of minor physical works, etc. The proposals for other extensions under assessment are that the installation, modification or repair of the fireplace may take place without an application as long as the municipalities lay down conditions for control. Furthermore, it is assessed that a detached building of up to 15 m2 can be built without an application or notification – previously this was 10 m2. Other minor extensions of what can be completely exempted from construction treatment are also under assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e685	I am pleased that the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs has now been able to make a time-table when the simplifications come, namely, as far as I understood, during November. The problem with such messages of joy, such as came in the election campaign, and the expectation that has been created in the municipalities is to stop the proceedings, and that matters stop being delivered to the municipalities, pending the simplifications. What you look around is that after the consultation deadline expired in May, there are many municipalities that have recommended people to wait, because they expect the simplifications to be right around the corner, and then it's a problem if the simplifications don't come – once they've even received proper press coverage a few days before a choice. I understood that a lot of the measures taken by the Right in connection with the interpellation debate on this matter are now actually going to lead to simplifications. But I did not hear that the question of a zero action class was raised, and would like to ask the Council of State to consider whether it is possible to get shifts and the creation of a zero action class.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e694	There is a considerable amount of work to be done when amending regulations such as this. It is also limited how far it is possible to go before the whole case has to be re-consulted and through a wide-ranging procedure, which will further delay the implementation of new regulations. Therefore, the Council of State has now decided to link the changes to the points I mentioned in my first response, simply in order not to spend more time than is necessary to implement these regulatory changes, so that the simplifications can be implemented as quickly as possible. If this were to go beyond this, the matter would have to be reopened, and this would mean further suspension of the implementation of simpler rules.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e701	I am glad that the Council of State is as busy as we are that there should be a high pace of this work, and I understand that there may be a need to get through the simplifications that you have in a way already told people are established. It's an independent problem that you go out and say that now the simplifications come, and then they don't come. I hope, however, that you will continue to work with these other questions that have not been completed. I will be asked a question to the Council of State relating to the second theme on which the Right proposed, namely an evaluation that we would actually have before the summer. The council predecessor, Ragnhild Queseth Haarstad, said in the interpellation debate that she would come with a partial evaluation, and it made a majority not in favour of the Right proposal at the time. The evaluation carried out in the revised national budget was very limited. Will the Council of State come back with a partial evaluation fairly soon for larger parts of the whole building reform, so that we, among other things. perhaps something can be done to increase construction costs as a consequence of the increased red tape introduced by the majority?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e708	In the future, I will follow carefully, among other things. how the new regulations will operate in relation to the structure of the construction industry and how they will operate in relation to the smallest enterprises, whether we will see a decline in the smallest enterprises in the future due to problems in meeting the requirements of the building regulations. The simplification that we are now implementing means that the form field will be reduced by about 30 pst. There is a significant reduction, while several cases can also be dealt with as a notification and without construction proceedings. This implies a practical step in the right direction, but we will follow further developments in the future with a view to further simplification if it is necessary and sensible to do so in other areas as well. Of course, we'll also come back to Stortinget in a suitable form with a briefing on it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e718	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: «Then the Stortinget on 4 March 1999 dealt with St.meld. No 49 In the case of housing for young and disadvantaged people, it was adopted: ‘The government is asking the Government to set up a sample to look at the whole housing policy’. [[1997-98]] In writing, the Council of State said that when the budget was presented, the appointment and mandate should be clear. Why hasn't that happened?'
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e727	The government announced in the State budget for 2000 that during the autumn of 1999 a public sample will be set up to go through housing policy on a broad basis. The reduction of the sample and the preparation of the mandate have taken a little longer than estimated for various reasons. However, the Ministry is now well under way both in terms of mandate and composition, and the Government will formally appoint the sample in the course of the year. On that basis, the sample is expected to start work on 1 January 2000 for the submission of its investigation by 31 December 2001, as had been the case in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e732	In view of the situation on the housing market, also in relation to the lack of housing and housing prices, there is a high interest in the work of the sample. The Committee gave some guidance on the mandate. We were concerned about the role the public should play in housing policy. We were concerned with the management of the housing stock, among others. what the impact on the construction of older people is, what it means. And we were busy getting more life-cycle homes than we've had so far. The committee was also clear on its decision, we thought that the committee should have a working time of two years. Is it so that the Council of State will follow it up?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e739	The representative Gaundal refers to, which has occurred on the housing market recently, as one of the reasons why the ministry has spent time and has been thoroughly involved in the preparation of the mandate and the preparation of this work. Of course, attention has also been paid to ensuring the leadership of the Committee on what kind of element of housing should be considered in such a sample. So what the representative himself mentions is among the reasons that this has taken a little longer than the ministry initially expected. We have wanted to do the best possible job in the preparation work. As I said in my first answer, the ministry assumes that the work will be completed in two years.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e746	As I said, there is a great deal of interest in the work of the sample. I ask specifically because, among other things, from the LO, the Organisation for the disabled and the Disabled have been told that they are interested in participating in future housing: how will the Council of State ensure that the opinions of individual groups are included in the sample work?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e751	Firstly, the sample will be broadly composed to safeguard the interests of the different users in relation to this area. I take with me the input that has come from the representative, Gaundal, without giving any promise about the composition of the sample, but it is clear that just the representativity is important in terms of a sample like this. I also assume that the sample in its work form will facilitate the widest possible input and participation in the debate on the design of the future housing policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e759	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘Steinkje kommune has authorised the conversion of former dairy premises to a new training centre and except for the conversion from the building regulations on accessibility in public buildings. However, accessibility for people with disabilities is an important consideration in the building codes and compliance with the rules is essential. Will the Council of State intensify to the municipalities that new buildings and conversions take into account accessibility for disabled persons?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e768	Accessibility for disabled persons is an important consideration of the Planning and Building Act and there are clear provisions in the legislation to ensure that this is done. I am aware that it is exempted from these requirements, and in my opinion to an excessive extent. Unfortunately, this is also happening where the public is the holder of measures. In November, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the Ministry of Environment jointly send a circular to the municipalities. Examples of ways in which accessibility can be taken into account include: in the planning process. The circular also clarifies the frameworks which actually apply to the exemption but which are not always followed. At the same time, municipalities are encouraged to waive as little as possible the availability requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e775	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The example I have shown in the question is probably not unique. As I understand it, the owner of this center is a chain that establishes itself in several places. Personally, I think it is directly frightening to state in the application for construction permission that the centre is planned for functional health care, and that disabled people need to be referred more to physiotherapy and physical treatment. The principle side of this case is very large. It surprises me, therefore, that the county council in the North Trøndelag seems to have been more concerned with the fact that the deadline for appeal has been exceeded than with the principle of an accessible society. Fine words are not enough in action plans and other documents. It has to be put into practice at all levels, and I will therefore also ask the Council of State whether strict demands will be made in the message that is now to be sent to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e787	As I said in my first answer, it will be written in November by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the Ministry of Environment in common, both clarifying and inculcating how to ensure, inter alia, availability. in the planning process. It is a clear objective that the exemption access granted to the municipalities should be used to the minimum possible. Dispensation access will be maintained so that municipalities can use it, but these two departments – and the Government – want it to be reinforced to minimise its use. This will also be the basis for the regulations that will now be sent out.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e794	I am sincerely pleased that the Council of State takes this so seriously, and I hope that you follow it closely. Finally, I could imagine asking: What kind of control mechanisms will be put in place to ensure that this is complied with in the municipalities? Will there be a demand for back-reporting?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e801	There will be no control system other than the one we have today and, of course, the ministry will keep up with developments in this area with a view to ensuring availability. It is important that this is done properly and that the exemption is used to the minimum extent possible. As I said, I find it particularly regrettable that the exemption is used to such an extent even where the public is the action holder. This means that we will of course follow forward, in order to see if the assumptions in the regulations are met.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e811	I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following questions: ‘The Government has agreed to negotiate an investment agreement under the WTO, despite the fact that a large number of countries and organisations are opposed to such an agreement. The government said so late as in June 1999 that it would ‘not actively’ support such an agreement, inter alia for the benefit of many developing countries. What is the reason why a new MAI is now acceptable?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e820	In my presentation to the Storting on 25 May this year, I pointed out some of the difficulties that will be faced by negotiating investment rules in the WTO. I highlighted the complexity of reaching an agreement that takes both industrial policy considerations into account and at the same time takes sufficient account of the environment, health, labour standards and the needs of developing countries. I also referred to the disagreement between central countries on this issue. Therefore, the government would not initially actively participate in order for investments to become a negotiating theme. At the same time, I stressed that if the topic were to become part of the negotiations, we would emphasise the qualitative considerations mentioned in any negotiations. In the debate on the presentation in Stortinget on 17 June, several representatives from parties representing a majority in Stortinget stated that we should be more active on the Norwegian side in order for the WTO to negotiate multilateral rules on investment. This has been noted by the Government. The Ministerial meeting in Seattle in the month of November to December shall formally adopt the mandate for the forthcoming negotiations. Let me stress that although investments are included, this is not about a new MAI agreement. On the contrary, emphasis is placed on a completely different and less wide-ranging approach to the development of multilateral investment rules than envisaged in the MAI negotiations. Another main objection to the MAI negotiations was that they were taking place in a limited circle of countries. With 135 member countries, the WTO will be a far more representative forum than the countries behind the MAI negotiations in the OECD. It remains to be seen what the final outcome of any decision in Seattle will be. The main idea of those who want to include investment in the negotiations is to establish a framework based on the basic principles of the WTO and which limits itself to direct investment. After yesterday's meeting of the Friends of the Round group in Lausanne, where I attended, it is still unclear whether investments will be included in the negotiations, although some suggest that this can happen. In this case, it is essential for the Government to take the necessary account – as I said earlier – of the environment, health, cultural interests, labour standards, national control of natural resources and the needs of developing countries. Any contractual agency must assume in a balanced manner the obligations and rights of all relevant actors, i.e.: host country, country of origin and investors. The WTO's handling of these matters will be crucial for the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e837	I perceive a lot of what the Foreign Minister is now saying, as an explanation of the positions previously held. There has not been a vote in Stortinget that has ordered the Government to change its position, as the Government has now done. But leave it. I understand that until yesterday, at the meeting in Lausanne, Norway has taken the opposite position of what the government had earlier. First of all, I would like to confirm that it is really the way the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been sitting at the table and actively committed to making investments part of the contract work – that is one thing. The second is: do I understand the Council of States' right that if an agreement is now negotiated under the WTO on investment, will the Government make the absolute condition of what he has put up here in terms of health, the environment, labour standards and the needs of developing countries? And will it mean that the Government will come to the Storting with a non-recommendation if these considerations in the Government's opinion are not sufficiently respected?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e844	During the meetings that took place in Lausanne yesterday and yesterday, one did not get so far as to negotiate anything, it was more of a positioning. And the word 'investment' was probably not taken up by so many people, because agriculture and agricultural policy were more discussed than other things. We were not given the opportunity to express either one thing or another, so there are no positions that have moved at all during the meeting that took place yesterday. As I said in my first answer, if these questions were to be put on the agenda, the government would place a decisive emphasis on the environment, health, cultural interests, labour standards, national control of natural resources and the needs of developing countries. When you come to the final decision, we will have to see it all in context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e849	It is the diplomat who is now talking, perhaps more than the Minister for Foreign Affairs, because the Government must be expected to have an opinion on such an important issue. It is not enough to say that one will wait for the result and enter the negotiations almost with a completely open card. There has been a desire from Norway to give decisive attention to certain considerations, and it has been considered that the investment agreement is not initially a good agreement on which developing countries will benefit. Therefore, I think it is a bit surprising that you say that you can come back to the question at an unspecified time. Let me take a follow-up question. One of the major issues relating to an investment agreement has been the lack of balance in the agreement, namely that companies must be given a legal understanding that they can be sued against a State if they change the terms of the investment, for example: introducing environmental or health standards that the investor may consider to be a change in the terms and conditions of the investment. It was one of the major points of the previous MAI agreement that, not least the EU Commission and the European Parliament reacted strongly to. My question is, will that kind of question also be decisive for the Government, and will you put down your feet at any time in these negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e858	It is not the diplomat who answers, but it is the one who attended a meeting who answers. And at this meeting, we didn't get too far to discuss these questions at all. It is clear that the Government will emphasise the principles that I have just stated, but now we have not started the negotiations yet. When these negotiations begin, of course, we will focus on what I have said. So essentially, we've made our point of view known. The representative, Mr Djupedal, still refers to the previous MAI agreement. I tried to say here it's not about any new MAI agreement, it's about a whole new type of investment agreement. Nor is it right for all developing countries to oppose this. There's a difference of opinion about this. One of the limitations of the proposal on the table is that direct investment is the only issue. It's different from the MAI when you were negotiating it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e871	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘The NATO bombing operation in the Balkans has left a number of serious problems. One of the main objectives of the action was a multi-ethnic Kosovo within the borders of Yugoslavia. But the majority of the Serbs, among other things, have, out of fear of being killed, fled Kosovo. So the internal refugees in Yugoslavia are approaching a million, now just before the winter comes in. At the same time, we know that the action hit a number of civilian goals, such as bridges, power plants, hospitals and oil refineries. What is done to remedy the humanitarian situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e880	The situation in the Balkans continues to give rise to serious concerns. Much of the responsibility for the problems and suffering lies with the regime in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and, in particular, President Slobodan Milosevic. The action in Kosovo was not directed at the Serbian population. The starting point was the violation of the Belgrade regime against the Kosovar Albanian population. The objective is to secure a multi-ethnic Kosovo, and it is therefore very regrettable if the UN-led operation after the war has not managed to calm the minority groups, including those involved. a large number of Serbs have chosen to leave Kosovo. The government is very concerned with the difficult situation of internally displaced Serbs, especially in view of the forthcoming winter, to which the representative refers. In order to remedy the humanitarian situation, the Government has recently increased its support for humanitarian measures in Serbia by 34.6 million. NOK 52 million. kr. Total humanitarian aid to Serbia, Kosovo and Montenegro amounts to less than 400 million. kr. The government has supported the UNHCR emergency aid programme for internally displaced Serbs and the Roma people in Serbia with a total of 20 million. kr, e.g. for the purchase of fuel for refugees and their host families. Other measures taken by the Government have been followed up by Norwegian non-governmental organisations. The Church's Emergency Aid has channeled food for refugees through its international network. In addition to rehabilitating the health centre in Aleksinac, a city with 18 000-20 000 inhabitants, Norway’s Red Cross has contributed the soup kitchen to host families and refugees. Caritas Norway is working through its international network to provide shelter and emergency supplies to internally displaced Serbs and Roma people. Furthermore, the Refugee Council is rehabilitating housing for refugees in Serbia. Through Norwegian People's Aid and Redd Barna, the Government supports projects to remedy the humanitarian situation of Serbian refugees in Montenegro. In its further work in the Balkans, the government will also focus on humanitarian measures in Serbia. An important element in this will be measures that can facilitate the return of Serbian refugees from Kosovo to their homes. Close contact is maintained with the UN Administration in Kosovo on this matter with a view to adopting measures as soon as winter is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e893	I thank the Foreign Minister for the answer. It is clear that he is doing certain things that are very limited, probably because of the sanctions he has been involved in. But there's no doubt about who's responsible for the hospital's operating problems, that the bridges are gone, that the power plant doesn't float so that people get power, and that you can't get gas for a reasonable amount of money. There is no doubt about who is responsible for it, with its sanctions. Even if the goal of it was another, easy to overthrow the Milosevic regime, the result is that there are common people who get dizzy. It's not Milosevic's people who get dizzy. Carl Bildt says that. in the evening post today. The mafia and people associated with the regime are doing well. So there are ordinary people who become the frames of Norway's policy. [[The President clubs.]] Is this a reasonable form of reaction?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e902	Although the representative of Langeland says that there is no doubt about who is responsible, enough is the representative and I disagree about it, because I believe that the person responsible here is President Milosevic. At the same time, I agree with him that we see that the Serbian people suffer. It suffers beyond the proportions that I think are right, and therefore there may be reason to look at the sanctioning regime. That's something we're discussing. But I think we should be so realistic that we say that a definitive solution to these problems – and also to the humanitarian need – can only be found through political changes in Serbia. For this reason, the Government has also intensified contacts with the political opposition in the country, in particular the Alliance for Change, where a majority of opposition policies are involved. Representatives of this alliance are invited to Norway and come here at the beginning of November – I think it's November 9th. Then we will also discuss the humanitarian situation with them.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e909	I will leave it with the responsibility, even if we disagree about this. But the consequences, we both see, are that the Serbian people trust because part of the infrastructure is gone, and that as a result of NATO's attempt to remove a president in Yugoslavia. I believe that the Foreign Minister will see if it is possible to resolve the sanctions. But now we're approaching wintertime. It's obvious that it's the Serbian people that are being rammed, just like in Iraq. Then we must reconsider our policy in this area. Then the Foreign Minister has to go to the head to get a completely different bet to help not only the refugees in Serbia, but the entire Serbian people.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e916	I can assure the representative of Langeland that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has taken the lead in this. We've put a lot of emphasis on providing support to the Serbian people, and we're still going to do that. But it's not just about penalties. I discussed the question with the Austrian Foreign Minister a couple-three days ago. And one of the problems is that President Milosevic himself, for example. not wanting to clean up in the Danube, because he sees that this politically does not serve him. As I said in my second reply to the representative, we are facing a very big problem here, precisely because you are dealing with a regime that is not concerned with its people. They are occupied with power, they are occupied with their own position, but not with the position of the people. And therefore – even if we are going to exert pressure and even if we are going to provide humanitarian aid – I think we need to look into the fact that the necessary support in the long term can only be given after there has been a change of regime in Belgrade.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e927	This question, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Fisheries, has been transferred to the Minister for Food and Trade, who is directly responsible. The question will be answered by the Minister of Justice on behalf of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e930	I have the following questions for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade: ‘In recent years, aluminium has become more and more common as a building material in fishing and farming boats. It is now one day that several boats have had explosions on board due to the gas of a bang, which is developed by a chemical reaction between the aluminium hull and wet concrete, which is used as ballast in the boats. This was pointed out in a note from Marintek AS back in 1991 expressing great concern for the problem. What action will the Council of State take to address the problem so that lives are not lost?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e939	It is true that in the early 1990s, problems were caused by the use of concrete as ballast on board boats built of aluminium. However, the focus was on possible glare problems, and the Marintek note mentioned in 1991 concluded that the coating of the aluminium surfaces was applied to a layer or two of polyester. The report is without prejudice to the problem of explosion hazard. Further research and investigations have also concluded that the aluminium – concrete combination is unproblematic. The fact that concrete as ballast on aluminium vessels may result in serious explosions has only become known this year. In recent times, at least four explosions have occurred in connection with heat/welding on board aluminium vessels during workshop stays. There have been no serious injuries. In a recent report, Sintef concluded that the explosions are related to the use of concrete as ballast by enabling contact between aluminium and wet concrete to develop explosive blast gas. The report also concludes that extensive clotting damage may occur as a result of the same chemical reaction in the event of normal contact between aluminium and concrete. In view of the serious events that have occurred in the last year, the Directorate of Maritime Affairs, through its survey inspectors, the Norwegian Fisheries Team and the Fisheries Law Managers, has already gone out with information to the shipowners and workshops concerned about these problems. The ship inspection shall require evidence that an in-depth investigation has been carried out and, where appropriate, shall be ordered if the shipowner has not taken the necessary action. In new aluminium vessels, the Directorate strongly advises against the use of concrete as ballast. This has already been done by informing the authorities of the Ship Inspection Office and by informing the Directorate for Labour. In the case of existing vessels, the Directorate has, through instructions for the control of ships, carefully followed up all the vessels subject to certification built in aluminium. The Directorate for Maritime Affairs sent out a circular on this subject on 21 October. The Maritime Directorate has also sent a letter to the Labour Inspectorate informing them of the explosion hazards associated with welding and the like during workshop stays.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e952	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I see that here the authorities have reacted quickly and taken the problem seriously. Just considering that there may be a major accident and that life may be lost, is why I have raised the question. And now that I see that the authorities have already reacted, tightened up the procedures and sent out a circular, I feel that the matter is in good progress.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e962	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture the following questions: ‘Personal living conditions may not seem to have a positive effect on strengthening housing in rural areas. Can the Council of State envisage removing this obstacle to the healthy development of Building Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e971	As you know, Section 27 of the Royal Decree and Section 6 of the Concession Act state that the person who acquires an agricultural property has a personal residence obligation on the property for five years. I do not agree with those who felt that the personal housing obligation had no positive effect on the housing in the districts. The statutory personal dwelling obligation on agricultural property is justified by several considerations. According to the law's prior workers, the residence obligation under the law of no part is enshrined in the basic idea of the nobility, which is to protect the ownership of the land to which they cultivate and operate and to which both home and profession are linked. The residence requirement under the concession law is justified on the basis of an assessment that local ownership of natural resources leads to better use of the property’s resources for the benefit of the community. These considerations cannot be met if the dwelling obligation can be fulfilled by tenants and others who do not own the property. The fact that the owner himself lives on the property, I believe, is crucial. I therefore believe it is important to maintain the personal housing obligation on agricultural properties as an instrument to ensure and strengthen the housing in the districts. For information, I can inform you that in the agricultural notice coming to Stortinget, it will be assessed to increase the area limit for properties subject to the personal dwelling obligation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e982	I thank the Council of State for the answer, even though it was an answer that I and the Progress Party do not agree with. This is also reinforced in various reports and registers. The purpose of the dwelling obligation is to strengthen the residence. Contributing to the personal dwelling of agricultural property to strengthen its settlement would expect the proportion of inhabited agricultural property to be greater than the proportion of inhabited residential property without a personal dwelling. Unfortunately, that is not the case. Surveys show the opposite of what one would expect from the point of view of introducing personal living conditions in agriculture. In Sweden, there has been a freer movement of agricultural property for several years than in Norway. The new Land Acquisition Act, which entered into force in 1991, led to substantial deregulation in Sweden. For example: Hedmark County, on the other hand, has been a personal resident since 1975 for five years in the case of property transfers. The results of the studies show that 20 pst. by the owners of Hedmark do not live on the property itself. In Värmland, the corresponding figure is 13 pst. Värmland also has a higher proportion of owners living on small farms compared to Hedmark. How will the Council of State interpret this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e993	A comparison between agricultural property and ordinary inhabited residential property seems to me to be incorrect. First, the housing obligation is limited to five years also for agricultural properties, and then one can do what one will – to express me that way – if one will then continue to live there or not. This is an assessment that individuals have to make in connection with acquisitions, where it is important that they think through whether they want to live on this property. As for the comparison with Sweden, I think one should think about one more time, when one looks at what condition and what constitution these properties are on the other side of the Swedish border. When you look at the investment desire to keep up with these small uses in Building Norway, and at the maintenance of them in relation to that one find on the other side of the border where one does not have a dwelling obligation, I think it speaks its clear language. From my point of view, I would say that I, as the representative of Bredvold, disagree with the Progress Party and have a different approach.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1002	As an information, I can say that I am a close neighbour of Sweden and know what it looks like in particular. Warmland. So to the economy in this case. Municipalities, counties and the Ministry of Agriculture use a total of 15.3 annual works to manage housing and occupational responsibilities. This corresponds to annual costs of just over 8 million. kr. In addition to the public, private individuals also spend considerable resources in the form of their own work and contributions to lawyers, travel etc. This amounts to just over 4.1 million per year. kr. In total, the annual costs are just over 12.1 million. kr. In 1997, care was taken on housing and industrial matters, 6.3 pst. by the cases were dismissed. This is equal to 126 properties. Take $12.1 million. NOK and the distribution of 126 farms, you get a sum of 96 644 kroner. In 1997, the community paid NOK 96 644 on average for 126 farms in order to make the purchaser live on these farms for at least five years. Does the Council of State consider this to be the proper management of public and private resources?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1011	I should have wanted the calculations to be as simple as they were now produced in relation to the cost of administration, and what a person might be able to measure. Management also has a commanding effect, because it could be that people would have acted in a completely different way if we hadn't had the provisions we have today. In the case of ordinary residential property, I can show that there are actually 70 municipalities in this country that have introduced their own regulations so that a person can also claim residence on these in vulnerable areas where there is a risk that they may be redisposed to, for example. holiday purposes. Among other things, this can be found in several locations in the South, but also in other areas of Norway. Housing is important according to what is involved with district policy and the future of Building Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1021	I have a question for the Minister of Defence: «In Dagsnyt 21 October 1999, Brigadier Arne Broberg stated that 1 billion could be saved. $50,000 to transfer men from North Norway to South Norway. State Secretary Kjell Ingaer Alvheim of the Ministry of Defence thinks the idea is interesting and should be assessed, and he believes that the Army should gather its efforts in one part of the country and not spread the business throughout the country. Does the Council of State share this view, and has the threat picture in recent times changed so that the defence of South Norway now needs to be reinforced as much as this is added to?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1030	The current safety situation in our neighbourhoods needs to be described as positive. The development of security mechanisms, characterised by dialogue, cooperation and community, has helped to strengthen Norway’s security. However, security policy developments continue to bear the mark of uncertainty, and Norwegian security and defence policies must therefore also take into account the risks that may arise in the long term. But today there is no military threat to Norway – nor to South Norway. The current long-term notification of the activities and developments of the Defence Agency has suggested that the Army's Peace Organisation should focus on the main areas of Troms and the East. It will be necessary to lay down and merge functions and activities across the weapons species in the Army, reducing the number of garrisons and service locations. As you know, the defence has a serious challenge in restoring the balance between resources and tasks and between operations and investments. The defence has carried out significant conversion work, yet we have not achieved the desired objectives. The conversion was too late and the results were too poor. I have therefore on several occasions highlighted the need for new and comprehensive conversion measures within the Defence Organisation. There is today too much gap between the size of the organisation we have and the resources we have. There should therefore be no doubt that we need to think again and differently about the organisation and use of resources in our defence. This is a major challenge for all those working on defence investigations. The work now carried out in the Defence Organisation, the Defence Research Institute and the Defence Policy Committee of the Government is crucial for the credibility of the Defence in the future. The current assessment of the restructuring of army crew training is also an important part of the transition. Here I expect the Vice President's recommendation to be sent to the Department in February 2000. I have invited a creative, broad and open debate as the basis for the decisions to be made by government and magnificence. I hope that as much as possible will be involved in the debate, and we must be prepared for controversial ideas and views. But I don't want at this stage in the process to reject commitment and creativity. Nor do I want to take a stand on all the ideas and proposals that emerge in the debate, but wait for the investigations and recommendations that this process will lead to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1043	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I record that the Council of State here does not disagree with what emerged in the News of the Day. It simply means the closure of the defence in North Norway. That is why we adopted the region of the East, when we already have a field of fire in Troms, Bluefind and Mauken, which can meet the requirements of the defence. What is being said today is to bring the Greatness behind the light, and I have to ask again: are we after the Balkans war now in a situation where the defence in Norway has become an attack defense that will only operate abroad, in NATO operations? Have we abandoned the strategy of having a defence to defend Norway? There's a war going on in Russia, across our neighboring border. I doubt that the security situation is as the defence minister just said.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1052	I do not know the representatives of Bastesen's security policy assessments. I am based on safety assessments that are generally accepted. Interpreting my answer there that I did not disagree with this recording is to misinterpret myself completely. I did not take a position on the proposal at all. I see it as a contribution to the debate that I want to welcome. But in an open process, we have to distinguish between en route recordings and conclusions, and the conclusions are actually not drawn. Before they're drawn, I'll have really figured out all the consequences of any savings and what defence we're going to have. I'll come back to Stortinget with that. As for my State Secretary, I know that he has exactly the same attitude to this process that I have. How his statements have fallen in the meeting to which it is referred, I do not know. However, we fully agree that the process should be concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1061	We have an old saying that the one who's ten consents, and when the Secretary of State, as I assume, is the Council's closest adviser, says that it's interesting to shut down the defense in North Norway, the Council of State, when she doesn't take a distance from it, will actually agree. I have to ask again: is it so that we are changing the entire defence structure in Norway to become an attack defense that is going to participate in NATO operations around the world, instead of letting it be a defense for the country, as it is supposed to? It's okay if the Stortinge means it, then I should agree with that, too. But then the government has to deliver a message to the Stortinget, and then we have to discuss the change in the defence strategy, not do it without debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1068	The representative Bastisen doesn't have to worry. Firstly, there is a large-scale reporting for treatment here in Stortinget on Norwegian participation in international operations. The processes I refer to in my reply are processes that will lead to the new long-term message to be submitted to the Stortinget in spring 2001. The process that is currently in progress seems to me to be valuable, because we get all sorts of suggestions, and if my Secretary of State has said that this proposal was interesting, at least you can't deny that it has created interest. But I didn't draw any conclusion or take any position on this proposal to move everything south, north or split. I'll wait to do that. We're going to have a defense in the future that takes care of what's the basic responsibility of defence, that's to defend our territory, but we're also going to be involved in international operations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1082	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘A secured pedophile attacker is now to be returned to the municipality of Rennesøy, where the municipality is to build the care home for the attacker. Does the Council of State consider it reasonable to oblige the municipality in which the infringement has been committed to take care of the offender, with the burden it would have on the children who have been subjected to the attacker, to meet that person in the street, or can he imagine changing the rules so that the offenders are settled outside the municipality of the home?’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1091	The Ministry will always make a careful assessment in each case of where it is safe to place security judges when assessing the security. In this assessment, the Ministry will inter alia: consider the risk of new criminal offences and the circumstances of the municipality concerned, including the situation of the victims. There are several professional elements that can justify the return of the custodian to the municipality of residence. Often the insured person is known in the home municipality, so that the municipality as such, but also the parents and children, can be observant in relation to the insured person. Furthermore, the possibility of rehabilitation and the prevention of relapses into new crime is often linked to the networks of the custodians, in particular contact with the family, and it may appear unfortunate to place the pedophile prisoner in an environment where no one knows his or her orientation. As regards the question of amending the rules, it is my opinion that one in today's legislation can meet the need for the overall assessment necessary in this type of case.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1100	It is my opinion that initially a pedophile should zone its protective sentence in prison, but now the legislation is such that you usually zone in a furniture house or in a nursing home. I have to say that I am sincerely concerned about these children. I felt that the Council of State somehow overlooked the main problem here, and it is that there are many small municipalities in Norway with dense environments, and where these children are almost daily at risk of encountering a person who has previously committed an assault on the same children. And it's an extremely traumatic experience. I am aware that no other local authorities want to have a pedophilia conviction in their community, but then there are, of course, opportunities to inform the local community, so that they know about this person's background. So in the interests of these children's traumatic experiences of resuming the perpetrator, I'm going to ask the Council of State to take this problem up to a very serious assessment and see if he can get a solution in this particular case, and in similar matters in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1109	It is widely known that pedophiles have the lowest status of all convicted persons, and that society often reacts with great disgust at what has happened. Once people have settled up, it's a practical assessment whether they're placed in an environment where they're totally unknown, or in an environment where they're known. I explained that in my answer. I myself am of the simple opinion that if you know the circumstances, you can also deal with the matter properly. The person concerned may also be able to do so through the work of the police, for example: be aware that the police are involved, that is the full authority to do so. It is also the case that today’s legislation – as mentioned in the representative’s question to me – allows the person to be placed in another municipality on the basis of an overall assessment. Here the overall assessment is done as it is done, but since the representative Simonsen asks me if I should be extra sure, I would say I should do it. I like to do it. I did it already in the introduction to the answer, but I'm going to do it again, so that the stones that are to be turned around are turned around. But the balances are the same as I explained in my answer, and the entire homes are within the scope of today's legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1116	I really just have a little comment, because I want to stress this a little bit. If you place these pedophiles in a municipality where they are previously unknown, they can become known by taking advantage of the access you already have to inform the neighborhood. So that shouldn't be the most serious problem. The problem in this case is that nine children who have been grossly sexually abused by a person are at risk of meeting him in the street. In this case, it's a municipality of 3,000 people, where people know each other, where the environments are small, where the center is small, where people go to the same places and where you meet and see each other. It's just for the sake of those who have already been abused, that I'm stressing this problem. What I thought was pleasing in the Council of State's response was what he said about the ministry having the opportunity to intervene and decide, and that means that this municipality must have the opportunity to send an application to the ministry to find another solution. If it is done, I hope that the Council of State will take a positive view of it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1125	What I made aware of was that the legislation provides an opportunity to make a location elsewhere than in the municipality of residence. But it requires an overall assessment of the person concerned and the person's relationship to the environment. There's a relationship with the victims, an overview, and there's also a relationship to get out of something. If we believe that we are to prevent new crime, it is to know widely about something a good security measure. If we believe that people should have a chance to change, having a relationship with people in the normal way is also important. That's the balance. Now I said I should make sure that it was done thoroughly in this case. I'll know when I tell you. Then I also have to say again that it stands for me so that often the sentence in transparent societies to people who are stamped can be so hard and have a rather powerful preventive effect on the fact that something new is going to happen. But I understand why the commitment is expressed strongly on behalf of children, even though the solutions are not simple. I'm not going to repeat the answer any more. I will look at the matter, so that I am sure that everything has been carefully assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1135	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘Students at the Police College have previously been paid the cost of a minibus certificate by the school. Such a certificate is necessary for driving police cell cars. This scheme has changed for the students of the year, who are now at risk of having to cover this expenditure themselves. Will the Council of State take an initiative so that the old scheme can be put into effect again for the current school year?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1144	The question raised is a well-known issue for the Ministry of Justice. As a result of budgetary priorities of the Police College, the scheme fell to cover the cost of driving licences for minibuses. The Ministry of Justice will hold a meeting with the Police College in November on priorities for 2000. At this meeting, the Ministry will address the issue of whether the old minibus driving licence system should be reinstated. In the current year's budget, there are hardly any possibilities to do anything about the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1153	I'm pleased with the answer. And it may well be that this year's discussion of the budget in the Grand Duchy will end with the fact that this will not be difficult to solve – depending on the decisions taken by the Grand Duchy in its budgetary procedure for the coming year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1161	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: ‘In the evening post of 15 October 1999, it appears that almost 900 asylum seekers have disappeared from Norwegian asylum recipients this year. Many of these are lone minors. Neither the Ministry of Justice, the Directorate of Foreign Affairs nor the police know where they've gone or who they are. It is claimed that when someone disappears, the matter is only closed. What will the Council of State do to ensure better transparency and clearer responsibilities?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1170	Asylum seekers receive an offer from Norwegian authorities to live in state reception while their application for asylum is handled by the Foreign Administration. Most people use this. Asylum seekers have full freedom of movement until there is a renunciation of the request for asylum that can be enforced. Each asylum seeker can therefore leave the reception at his/her own request. We also have no systematic exit control in Norway. This means that both Nordics and non-residents can leave Norway without registration. The Directorate for Foreign Affairs has put in place regular procedures to alert the police of the reception of asylum when an asylum seeker has been away for three days. In the case of a single minor, a formal ‘discovery’ message is also sent, while the spouse, the child protection service and any known family in this country are notified. There may be several reasons why an asylum seeker leaves the host country or the host country. They may have received a rejection of their asylum application and therefore wish to be covered by the Norwegian authorities, for example. in church asylum, or they wish to travel on their own to another country in order to apply for asylum there. Unfortunately, some people also have a criminal track, and thus have a self-interest in keeping themselves hidden. It is a well-known problem across Europe that asylum seekers travel around – it is called asylum-hopping. Many asylum seekers who come to Norway come from other European countries and have thus ‘disappeared’ from there. This also applies to lone minors. Most lone minor asylum seekers report ages between 15 and 18 years of age. Many of them have families in Norway, but are thus without parents or others with formal parental responsibility. These young people have the same freedom as adult asylum seekers. This means that they can also voluntarily leave the reception when they or their family or helpers want it, in order to possibly go to cover or travel elsewhere. In order for the police to start investigations, it is necessary for the administration of foreign countries to report specific information which raises a suspicion of criminal offences. So the normal thing is that asylum seekers disappear voluntarily from reception. Of course, if the reception staff or the UDI have information of concern, this police department is informed so that active investigation can be carried out. I would like to end by pointing out that the question raised by the representative, Bjørnstad, will be carefully followed up in the time that is coming.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1183	I thank the Council of State for clarifying the situation. It was also the purpose of the question, because I perceive – and I believe that I and the Council of State agree – that having a humane and credible immigration policy also means having an effective and credible device. And then it can seem to me, and I have also registered for others, to be a mess when also representatives from the Government seem surprised that, for example. so many minors have disappeared, when the police are surprised by the number, and when the UDI states that they have no responsibility for trying to have an overview. Then I think it is important to clean up, and the Council of State has previously suggested the possibility of coordination in the field of foreign management. Can he here and now make any further views beyond what we've registered in the media for some time?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1188	There are three issues which concern the representative of Bjørnstad: Firstly, at the Schengen implementation, we will have exit control, so that we will have an overview of who is leaving the kingdom. Secondly, it is certainly the responsibility of the representative that there is a debate on the organisation of the Ministry of Justice, and one of the proposals is to place the entire administration of foreign affairs with the immigration department in the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. That work has not been completed, but is a work in progress. In the case of minors, I have specifically asked for it to be reviewed. And it turns out then that UDI's refugee register gives an overview of those who disappear. However, the statistics function in such a way that when a person is registered as ‘disappeared’ from a receipt, he remains even if he subsequently reports again. Therefore, the UDI has now carried out a manual review and had a conversation with the reception where the young people have gone away. It turns out that we're left with 13 people who we don't know where to go - that's from a number of 27-28, and that's a number within the large number of adults. Two of them have stated an age of 15 years, two 16 years old and the remainder 17 years old. Two of the 13 are other criminals — one is estimated to be about 30 years old, the other is also likely to be over 18 years old. The rest of the original 28, which has been mentioned in the press, have returned, resided, and we know where they have traveled, etc. So this is a complicated relationship, but I've gone into it because I think it's especially important to clarify it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1201	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I think there is a lot of reason in the idea of coordination in relation to an area where several departments and departments are involved. Let me include in an additional question something that relates to having an effective and credible device, and it goes in the process of dealing with asylum matters. It has, among other things, the impact on the individual, the ability to deal with any refusal or stay and the possibility of effective integration into municipalities without excessive residence in reception facilities. My short question is: Does the government have the situation under control with regard to the processing time, based on the fact that we have registered that a good deal can be accommodated because a person simply cannot meet the deadlines?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1210	The situation that a significant number of people have been accommodated because of having missed the 15-month deadline has occurred this year with a large number of asylum seekers, but also because of a large group of Kosovar Albanians who have been received and also sent out quickly again. We're working on this in two ways. Firstly, something long-term to go through the entire process between all administrative sectors — from foreign stations, immigration authorities in Norway and the police. In the short term, we are working to get away from the queue that has accumulated, so that we avoid the situation that has arisen. But it's probably something special, too, because there's also a lot of people coming to this country, for example. Iraqis, who speak Swedish, German and Danish. And then most people realize that they don't come from Saddam Hussein. Because we're a state of law, we can't just reject them on the border, but we have to deal with the rule of law. But we see, among other things, whether we should now have limits on how many requests for conversion can be promoted in a case when the matter is settled. And we need to talk about something else; there are many children coming to Norway who need protection here. But it's also gradually become a line that you place children in the West, and then come with the family afterwards. The most famous example of this is the Ali case, which you know from the past.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1222	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘ Sanderker Hybelhus was temporarily closed on 6 August 1999 due to a serious incident at the institution. The Ministry of Justice later wanted to identify what had happened and the responsibilities surrounding the case. The matter has now been closed. The Hybelhuset is an important offer to former prisoners and settlement prisoners. When will the cab be opened and will there be any changes in the operation?’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1231	The Ministry carries out a full review of the operation of Sandaker cabs in order to ensure good professional operation from the reopening. Attention has been paid to the following aspects: the contract of residence focusing on visitation arrangements, permissive practices and adequate control procedures and awareness of the practice of the regulatory tour arrangements and the necessary recruitment for the vacancy establishment of cooperation with Oslo County Prison as regards the transfer of competence and support for the staff establishment of the management structure of the cab and the cooperation with the head office; Before the reopening of the furniture house, the Ministry of Justice also wanted to await the conclusion of the police investigation as to whether criminal offences have been committed and our internal investigations in relation to the rules of the Civil Service Act on any disciplinary proceedings. These studies are expected to be completed during November. During the period of closure, staff have visited other cabins and relevant projects in prison in order to increase their own competence and to gain new impetus for the operational situation. In addition, the Ministry is currently clarifying more committed cooperation with Oslo County Prison in both the short and long term as regards the use of Sandaker Hybelhus as an exclusion option. The Ministry of Justice aims at a gradual reopening of the Sandaker furniture house with start-up in November. The time from which the cab will be fully operational depends on the availability and composition of the group of clients to be there.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1260	I will ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘UDI has informed that a case handler has resigned because of irregularities related to visa matters. In the evening post it is stated that the case handler has been the driving force behind the ‘Quetta project’. Will the Council of State ensure that all matters relating to the ‘Quetta project’ become known, since this is about people’s legal certainty?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1269	I can confirm that the case handler has been working on the so-called Quetta project for several years. He has played a central role, but all the proceedings and decisions have been taken regularly in line with the quality assurance it entails. The project is a collaboration between the Foreign Affairs Directorate, the police and the Kripos, which started in the autumn of 1994. Extensive investigation work has been carried out in the cases, for example: hearings, language tests, seizures of comprehensive evidence and the collection of visa applications in Denmark and Pakistan. Kripos has cooperated with several police districts in Norway, Danish foreign agencies and Danish Kripos. In December 1994, the UDI and the Ministry of Justice conducted a mission to Quetta for, among others, to examine individual cases. The case handler mentioned above participated as one of several in this claim for services. The Ministry of Justice and the Directorate of Foreign Affairs have gone through the Quetta cases where the case handler has been involved. The decisions taken in the cases are, as stated above, based on a broad basis. There have been several people involved in the decision-making process. There is no evidence that the decisions are taken on the wrong basis. In addition, the Ministry of Justice has dealt with complaints. Several of the cases are otherwise dealt with by Norwegian courts, and the State has received support in all the cases. The Ministry continues to assume that the persons concerned who have received their cases are Pakistani citizens. I also recall the offer of amnesty to those who are covered by the so-called Quetta project and document their identity when submitting Pakistani travel documents. The progress and outcome of this work, as previously announced, I will come back with a more detailed explanation about. The Ministry of Justice will ensure that all aspects of the Quetta project are reviewed in view of possible irregularities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1286	Several Norwegian organisations, with LO at their head, have engaged in relation to the hazards of the people. Several of them have had to live with both anonymous silencers and threats of leaving Norway on the grounds that they are not what they claim to be. They do not accept to get amnesty on the wrong basis, as they experience it themselves. Much of the work of the department and UDI is done behind closed doors, and then we don't always know which sources have been used to arrive at an answer that many of us don't seem to agree with. I'm happy if the Council of State here can confirm that one will see to it that what might seem to be ugly in our history in terms of asylum policy. And I'd like to ask the Council of State how he's going to present this and inform the Storting about it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1293	Here we have to sort in different ratios. The representative Grete Knudsen suggests, and probably shows in his statement, that there have been allegations of irregularities in the foreign administration. It's under police investigation. It's an investigation I wanted to welcome already this summer, and I expect that the investigation will address all aspects of the case – it also concerns matters related to today's questions, so I'm obviously waiting for the investigation to take place. What I've done especially with the Quetta project is look at how the decisions there are made, and I've answered it on this question that has been asked. In addition, it is not only the Ministry of Justice that has dealt with matters under previous governments and this government. They are also dealt with by Norwegian courts, and are even treated as asylum cases by Stortinget. I feel that I have received a very precise message from Stortinget about how these matters should be handled, and I also stated that in my answer. I'll follow it up, and I'll get back to it in an appropriate way. Before that, I would like to inform you that the Justice Committee, which is a specialist committee in this house, is familiar with the various aspects of the case and the handling of it. And of course, I want to find a form that is appropriate when it comes to conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1305	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Church, Education and Research: ‘The rules for granting travel aid in the State Loan Fund for Education shall use postal code instead of travel distance. According to Dagsrevyen, October 20, 1999, this may result in long-distance school students being refused travel aid because the postal code is low, while school students with shorter travel distances and high postal code receive support. Does the Council of State consider this to be in line with the intention of the scheme and will the Council of State change the rule?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1314	In accordance with the current regulations, the travel scholarship scheme is an addendum to the expenses incurred by the students and students for travelling between their hometown and their hometown. The calculation of the grant is today for practical reasons based on Posten's postal code. In most cases, the result will be that they will receive the highest grant at the maximum distance. The example of the day's revision shows that the system can nevertheless give an impression that I can understand seems untimely. The loan fund reports that there may also be other places in the country that are similar to this. The Loan fund must have a customised mass management calculation system. In the current scheme, emphasis is placed on the fact that the travel allowance, together with its own component, will normally not be below the price that the elephants and students have to pay, while it will be easier to accept that the elephants from some areas can receive a grant that is in excess of the actual costs. With today's regulations, it would hardly be possible to create a system that would completely prevent the emergence of single things that might seem unresponsive. Both the Ministry and the Loan Fund are busy closing out such statements and will continue their work towards the next school year. I would also like to remind you that last year's government's selection, Aamodt's selection, also looks at the question of travel coverage and how the state funds allocated to travel coverage for elephants and students through discount schemes and travel incentives should be put in the best way. Setting the selection will take place before Christmas. In the light of this setting, further work on funding for studies will be natural to look at a system that is not linked to a zip code system with such results, but I will not outline any concrete solution until the Aamodt setting is complete.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1326	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am pleased that the Council of State will take a closer look at the design of travel aid rules, and then with a view to changing them, so that postal code will no longer be used. I agree that there is a need for a manageable regulation in the Loan Fund and that there is also a need for simplification in the Loan Fund. But we must not become so eager in the service that we are oversimplifying the rules, so that the handling gives some – in my opinion – idiotic impressions, as the News of the Day pointed out. What I want to ask the Council of States is whether, in his further work on this scheme, he will base travel distances on as the decisive criterion for regulatory design.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1335	One might say the travel distance combined with actual costs, because it's not always just the distance that determines the costs. What's going to be my goal is not to get the kind of rash you've seen in this case. But when we first have a wide selection of work that goes into this thoroughly, analyze and figure this out, I'll wait to say something concrete about what solutions to go into. But I want to give the questioner right in and confirm that one with a new code will avoid the kind of rash you've seen here, and then the travel distance will be a natural starting point. But we have to see it in a whole world.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1345	I would like to ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘Children with reading and writing difficulties who need so-called audiobooks for educational purposes experience that the production of audiobooks is very delayed. There are still complaints from parents to schoolchildren who need this type of learning equipment that these audiobooks have still not arrived. This is a small matter, but it is very important for those concerned. What will the Council of State do with this problem?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1354	This is a matter that has much to say for them. The National Educational Centre is responsible for coordinating the development of special pedagogical education for primary and secondary education. For the school year 1999-2000, we have ordered over 31 000 audiobooks. This is twice as many as the previous year. To this year’s day, some 20,000 copies have been dispatched, and the NLS estimates that the remaining ones have been produced and dispatched during the month of November. An order system is in place for elephants with documented needs for audiobooks. The scheme was introduced in the 1998-1999 school year, and it has our great demand. Audiobooks are produced on the basis of finished textbooks from publishers. This means that when a pre-printed textbook appears for the first time, it will have to be a time before the book is read, copied, and distributed. The introduction of the basic school reform has resulted in the creation of new books for three class steps at the same time over the last two years. There has therefore been a great deal of need for subsequent copying, and all available capacity has been fully exploited. For the first time in the next year, audiobooks will be fully covered in the base school area, and students will have their cassettes ready for school start. In the current year, about 15 million have been used. kr on audiobooks. In the audiobook area, this is a lift that we have not been near before. The fact that the establishment phase of this scheme has criticised the slowness of the process is, of course, a cause for regret, but the whole thing will be completed when one in 2000 covers all current teachings in audiobook versions on both target forms. Finally, a brief information on challenges and plans ahead. During 1999, there is a corresponding system for elephants in continuing training. Students will be able to borrow audiobooks in most disciplines at the basic level. In 2000, work on developing this offer for the UK will continue. It has been produced mainly in a traditional cassette format. Digitally based productions are now in the process of being established and thus of improving quality. This means that next time the products will come as audio CDs or hosts available from audio bases, allowing you to download directly from the network. However, there are some unsolved challenges here, both technically and when it comes to licensing. To meet these challenges, active efforts are now being made to make the best possible use of the new technology.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1369	I thank the Council of State so much for the answer and not least for the thorough presentation. I am pleased with his positive attitude and willingness to settle this matter. You can imagine how it would have reacted if this had been about ordinary school books. They think I could be quite strong. I have been familiar with the reason for this delay, but the reason I took this up was that I hoped that the Council of State would intervene, because I have received several enquiries from parents who were doubtful that these audiobooks had still not arrived. And last year, we had the same problem, so maybe you could get hold of it a little bit earlier. Finally, a small question I don't think I got an answer to: When are these audiobooks finished?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1378	I think I'll answer that, but maybe not clear enough, so I'll repeat it. We expect that during the month of November, all books will be produced and sent in relation to orders. It is probably right that the representative Torbjørn Andersen says that this was also a problem last year. I also agree with him that parents to the elephants without reading and writing problems would have reacted that the school books had not come, even though some books had not come because of the pace of both educational reforms we have had. The joy is that one has set up a system where for the first time there is a right, and thus also the requirements, and one demands that the right one has been given, should be real, it should just be missing. But one has more than a double capacity, and when there will be no need for three new sets every year, then from the next fall there will be a complete supply leading, and then I expect the problem to be solved.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1388	I allowed myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Church, Education and Research: «In December 1997, the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research applied for recognition. In September 1999, the school called for the case, and after a few days received an answer where the department did not even give the slightest indication of how long the assessments of the case will take and what time the school will receive an answer to the application. Will the Council of State ensure that this matter is dealt with immediately?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1397	The ball applied for approval for private spherelova on 9 December 1997. In a letter to the school on 27 May 1998, the Ministry called for more detailed plans for the adaptation to the Lear Plan for the 10 year base. The Ministry received plans from the school on 23 November 1998. As the representative Løvik informs, the department wrote a letter to Alta Christian elementary school on September 10. The school was informed that there were still professional assessments of the teaching plans. I have had the aim that applications for authorisation after private bulletelova should be processed as quickly as possible. The case-handling time has also decreased. However, it is important that the Ministry should devote sufficient time to the professional recognition of the private base spheres. Students shall be assured a competence equivalent to that given in public schools. This is important for students to be able to participate in further training, professional life and society elsewhere. Applications for private funding also raise many principal and legal issues that need to be addressed in the process. Therefore, it may take some time to evaluate the applications, during which time it may be necessary to consider whether additional filling-in is needed. I want to make sure that the application for the approval of Alta Christian elementary school is given high priority, and that he is treated as quickly as possible. However, before any approval is granted, the Ministry shall be required to ensure that the professional arrangements are consistent. The ministry may have to go further with the school before any approval is granted. I still hope that the application will be completed at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1408	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. Even though the main focus and the main focus should be on public education, it is clear that in order to fulfil parental rights, it is very important that there are real alternatives. Then there is a good order of business and reasonably quick processing two of the statements. I know that when the current state council was the leader of the education committee, he had the same objection that I have today, that this is going too late. One can, of course, discuss how communication should be. There were seven months after the application, until the department asked for new information. The Council of State has said that it has as its objective that the procedure for approving new schools should not take much longer than a year. We have been away from this issue before, and I would like to ask the Council of State on a basic basis further: will action be taken to reduce the length of proceedings in general?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1417	I can confirm what the representative Løvik now asked for, that action has been taken, and therefore the average time is down for one year, as I have said should be a defensive procedure. Then there are some exceptions. I would like to take full responsibility for some of those exceptions. I'm not going to deal with this case from the pulpit either, but it's clear that when private school students are going to have similar training as they do in public, it takes a lot of time to figure out what such a curriculum should look like. Then you have to spend a lot of time on it. If you look at the dates I referred to in my answer, you can see that it is quite right that we took a long time to ask for further information. But it was also a very long time before we got the answer back. It also took half a year. So I'm going to say that this case has taken too long, and I'm going to keep what I've promised here, that we're going to set the pace, but we're dependent on cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1424	I am pleased with the answer the council once again gave. It's possible that the average time now is down to one year, but it's clear that when we have a situation here where it's been close to two years since the application was sent in until they can get an answer, it's too long. Then there's a little bit of communication between school and department. I also agree with what the Council of State said that the curricula must have a very thorough treatment, because with the political discussions we have about private schools in general, it is important that the procedures become thorough and proper, so that the curricula cannot be further attacked. But I'm satisfied with the answer that the special school this debt, Alta Christian elementary school, will get an answer before New Year's. This will give both the private ball and the public school in Alta the ability to plan, and it is necessary in such a situation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1437	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘In connection with the race protection of the Troll Trail, it is now decided to close the road on 14 August of the next 3 years. August is a great tourist month with especially many German and French tourists. It is also not unusual for cruise ships to approach the area far in August. The magic path is a national tourist attraction and therefore needs to be prioritised so that the closure is as short as possible. Will the Council of State ensure that this happens?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1446	During the spring of 1999, several cases of falls of smaller stones and bricks were recorded on the Trollstig Road, and on 8 May, significant falls occurred three times. More detailed studies showed that the precipitation came from a larger mountain lot relatively high over the road. Later, the State Road Service carried out analyses of the stability of the area and it was concluded that protective work had to be carried out. Since these works are to be carried out at about 700 metres above sea level and before the snow comes, the duration of work beyond the harvest is limited. This is the background to the initiative of the State Road Administration and the implementation of the protection work from 11 August this year. At this point in time, the Road Administration of the State has decided in consultation with the local tourism industry in order to safeguard these interests. In the middle of August, after I have been informed, the tourist traffic has been dabbed, and tourist boat calls to Åndalsnes have been taken into account in this connection. Collateral work, as it is now added, will be completed during 2001. If the protective work cannot be done as planned, we have to assume that it will be necessary to work on the road even in the autumn season after 2001. I expect a local person to adjust the closure at the time around 15 August, and I will therefore not go against the implementation plan that it has been set up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1462	I thank the Minister for the answer. Now it is that the travel industry up there wants to have at least one week longer operation in the area than it has today. The wish up there is that this will be pulled out a week longer in August. Can the Minister for Transport look at the possibility of this happening? It's the travel manager up there who especially wants this. I am aware that there have been meetings with the industry and that one has reached a compromise. But for Norway as a tourist country, it is very important to keep this road, as the attraction it is, open for at least one week.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1469	I register the wish of the tourist industry in the area. I think it is reasonable that the tourist industry and the state road network talk again. I guess a week from or to not necessarily is what is crucial, if you still manage to complete the project during 2001, which is the assumption. So I guess I can answer that I expect a dialogue to take place on this and find practical solutions within the timescales and the economy that you have at your disposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1474	I thank you for the answer, which I believe was both positive and constructive. I expect that it is possible to get to the week that the travel industry here asks for. However, I have one last question to the Council of State, and it goes on the very economy of this. Now it's like this goes over the county funds. But this is a national tourist attraction, and it would therefore be quite natural for these funds to be allocated to a national budget and not necessarily to go directly into the county. Does the Minister see any possibility that there might be a special arrangement for the Trollstig in terms of funding? I've been familiar with that 10.5 million. kr to racial protection funds in the area have been removed from other projects to be transferred to the Troll Trail. I think that's unfortunate for this county.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1481	Such things that have happened around the Troll Trail are not pre-allocated in budgetary terms. This means that when acute situations arise, practical solutions need to be found. It's done. It has therefore been necessary, at least at a preliminary stage, to ‘borrow’ funds from other accounts, both centrally and between counties. It is reasonable to use racial protection funds for this project. The funds on the racial protection side have increased slightly until next year. If we are able to find cover for the entire amount of increased racial protection funds, I do not dare answer today. We are now looking at funding, and I expect that something needs to be done within the county framework in a normal way, but to what extent, I will be allowed to return to Stortinget at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1491	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Two new road managers are joining on 1 January 2000, in Hordaland and Buskerud. In Hordaland, it's been almost 30 years since the last veggie shift. The matter has been put to the attention of state policy-makers, except of public opinion. Is this in line with the Government's desire for more publicity, and will the Council of State take the initiative for a more open process?»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1500	A warden is subject to the county council in matters relating to the county roads. Accordingly, as part of the ordinary preparation of the case by adding the case to the position of vejstef, the case is sent to the competent county council for an opinion. The presentation of the county council is governed by the Addendum Regulation of the State Road Administration and is not a «hearing case» in the general sense. In order to assist in the assessment of the county municipality, a preliminary, justified ranking of applicants is usually carried out. For the purposes of the persons concerned, the content of the communication is not public, and the Public Service Act § 6 para. 4 provides permission to exempt from disclosure documents in recruitment cases. However, some county municipalities publish their own position in the case. The government generally works for more publicity. However, in cases of additions to public posts, the objective of greater transparency must be balanced against the need to obtain highly qualified candidates to apply. This applies in particular to higher-level jobs. For some applicants for public positions, it could be a heavy burden if they become aware that they are applying for a new job. This may lead to a weaker candidate base. On this basis, the Government has consulted on a proposal for amendments to the Public Health Act, including: the following addition is proposed in Section 6 paragraph of the Public Health Act. 4: ‘an applicant may require that his or her name and other individualising characteristics are not disclosed’. This proposal is known to be based on the proposals of the Judicial Committee, cf. Inner. S. No 21 for 1998-99, to which the majority joined.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1512	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The fact that the law allows things to be exempted from public disclosure is far from keeping them secret. At hearings such as this, the list of candidates and recommendations from the establishment must be made publicly available. Equally important is that politicians can come up with their recommendations in an open meeting. In Hordaland, the case was discussed at a meeting on 21 October 1999. Politicians first got information about the matter on the table when the County Committee was assembled. In Buskerud the matter was dealt with the day before. There, politicians were given information in the file, which was sent out in an ordinary way. The directorate of the Road Directorate has a three-person majority in the Employment Committee. The employees have two representatives, but they are only recruited from the engineering organisation, despite the fact that the engineers only make up 10 pst. by the employees. What will the Council of State actually do to have a more representative and timely democratic process?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1517	To the extent that the recruitment procedure feels and is recorded as undemocratic, it is quite natural for it to be reviewed. The Council of State will do that, as the representative Knudsen raised this question. With regard to the county council's statement, I can only see that it is part of the general statements in the setting context. The county council therefore has access – and some take advantage of this opportunity – to publish its own ranking, its own opinion, in the process, but I remind you that at the end of the day these matters – and this matter – also end up at the Council of State. In other words, what has now been taken up by the Knudsen side will be considered when the Council of State finally concludes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1524	The last state council said, was reassuring to hear, because within the vegetarian there have been more calls for the modernisation of the organization, with the island-seek to pick up leaders who can think about new things. Will the Council of State, when he says that this case to the seventh and last will come to his table, contact these individuals and organizations to start a process where the width of the vegetation becomes more visible?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1529	Societal innovation is needed in a number of fields. I don't want to take a stand here and now on the exact field that the representative Knudsen is taking up. I repeat what I have said before, that once the question has been raised, as other representatives of the Stortinget have previously done in writing, it is natural that this should be reviewed. I can't see that these two positions in isolation should form the basis of this review individually, but it should be done on a more fundamental basis, more in principle. I have a great deal of understanding for those in society who believe that the application basis should be as wide as possible for this type of job, and that the basis of assessment should be as broad as possible, and of course it is natural that the recruitment authorities should include this in their posts. The Council of State will also take this into account in its conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1537	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘As you know, there is now open access to the entry into our larger cities of elongated tyres. A fee will affect disabled people who are dependent on getting their car, who are unable to push or put on a chain. These vehicles have a parking card which is strictly restricted in order to obtain and can be used as evidence of the exemption from the heavy duty charge. Will the Council of State help to exempt such cars from heavy duty?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1546	The background to access to the introduction of peak tyre charges is the need to be able to better regulate health and well-being disadvantages in peak tyre use. High concentrations of particles may trigger adverse health effects in the form of pulmonary and respiratory diseases. The main source is the wear of the road surface and the re-suspension of this dust from the road surface during periods of winter time with bar and dry road. Under the legislation on charging for the use of heavy duty tyres and additional charges, municipalities have been given the possibility to impose a charge for driving with heavy duty tyres within a specified area. So far, Oslo has decided to introduce such a scheme. The charging scheme has been chosen instead of a prohibition system in order to enable those who prefer to drive on high-lift tyres for various reasons to do so in return for payment of a fee for the environmentally unsuitable use of high-lift tyres. As a result, disabled people — like others — may continue to use peak tyres. It may be, as the representative points out, that health conditions make them want to do so. The charges for driving on high-lift tyres are laid down in the Regulation. These fees are general and will apply to all. I have received enquiries from several different teams with a request for exemption from the fee. My assessment is that the tax should apply to all, and that no derogation should be made from the regulation – because reduction in peak use is absolutely necessary to improve air quality in large cities and thus improve health and well-being for all those living in those municipalities. But let me end by stressing: there is no ban on heavy-duty use in cities, nor in Oslo, but there is a fee introduced to drive with heavy-duty tyres, in order to reduce the nuisances of air and pollution.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1557	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I don't think those who depend on such cars will be satisfied with it. The Minister of Transport, in his reply, justified the charge of air quality, but it has been claimed that rigid winter tyres result in the development of latex allergy, as they contain more natural rubber than heavy tyres, which lie more easily in the suspended dust. Doctors have claimed that there has been an increase in this allergy after the anti-elevation tyre was put into service. The fact that people should develop more easily allergy from natural rubber and, if necessary, straw sand, was not meant to be when the tipping tyre fee was introduced. Will the Council of State examine these claims and, in the event of correctness, take action?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1562	The Council of State admits that a number of claims have been made after the possibility of charging for heavy duty tyres was given. Some of these claims are now further examined, already per. date. We cannot confirm or answer the claims made in the media quoted by the representative now. It has not been intended in any way to harm the environment by imposing a rigid tyre charge, on the contrary. This is caused by health and environmental safety. It is, of course, to facilitate the everyday life of most people — not least those with allergies — who are intended to provide an opportunity to impose a fee. Of course, the Council of State will examine the claims that have been made. For the time being, we have no reason to believe otherwise than that a reduced use of heavy-duty tyres in the big cities will be a blessing to all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1572	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The investigation of the Ringeriks track shows high costs and poor profitability, in addition there is no completed technical report. There is a satisfactory bus connection on the route today. Road transport carries out 87 pst. of passenger transport and 51 pst. of the carriage of goods. The railway performs 4 pst. of passenger transport and 8 pst. of the carriage of goods. Appropriations per year km of transport refers to 88 ears to the railway and 15 ears to the road. Will the Council of State take action to stop further planning of the billion project?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1581	For the treatment of St.meld. No 53 for 1990-91, Stamveg Bergen-Oslo, on 18 June 1992 the Stortinget adopted the following: ‘The decision asks the Government to continue the work of curtailing the Bergensbanen [[Honefoss-Oslo]] The Storting addresses questions about corridor choices for the Ringerix Railway in connection with St.prp. No 64 for 1995-96 and Innst. S. No 12 for 1996-97, and requested that the further planning of the Ringeriksbahn be carried out for two alternative corridors, option 2 via Kroksund and option 2/6 via Åsa. In addition, new and up-to-date cost-benefit assessments, including cost estimates and traffic assessments, were provided for the project in the context of the master planning. The preliminary plan for the Ringeriksbahn was approved by the Headquarters of the Railway Agency in July 1999, and the impact assessment under the Law on Planning and Building was then open for consultation until 22 October this year. The railway undertaking now reviews the hearing opinions to determine whether the obligation to investigate has been fulfilled. The aim of the ETA is to obtain an approved impact assessment by the end of February 2000. The Ministry of Transport has in St. prp. No 1 added that the Storting will have the matter re-treated in the spring of 2000. Until new signals are available from a majority on the Stortinget, the Government assumes that the planning of the project will continue on the basis of the decisions taken by the Stortinget itself.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1595	I thank the Council of State for the answer. With experience from the sports of Rome and the Gardermoban, which would be the most profitable in the country, the Ringeriksbanen seems to be a doubtful project with a negative dietary-benefit factor.The assumptions of the Stortinget when it was decided to investigate the Ringeriksbanen were to shorten the time between Oslo and Bergen with approx. an hour. Does the Council of State think it makes sense to spend almost 4 billion DKK of taxpayers' money on this track when we know that the whole country has a great need to repair the road network and that the prerequisite for the path can perhaps be met by tilting trains after the current trajectory?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1602	The representative Stensaker comes with provocative assessments, interesting assessments. So far I can go in my supplementary answer. But beyond the decision of the Storting I can't go. The size has been leading. The majority has taken a decision. It has a government and a government council to deal with. That is why the Council of State, as he explained in the main response, is prepared to present this according to the plan now in the spring, and the Stortinget must then take a stand on the questions and the angles that the representative Steinsaker now brought forward. I note that the decision is a few years back in time, but of course I have faith that the Storting is able to make an overall assessment when they get the matter presented in full to the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1609	I thank the Council of State again, but I just want to add that the Ringerix Railway mainly leads to a redistribution of traffic between collective funds by the transfer of passengers from bus to train. The transfer of traffic from car to track represents approx. 5-6 pst. of the close current solstice-height traffic. This corresponds to about four years of road traffic growth. Although some road traffic could be transferred to the track, the investigation does not provide a basis for concluding that the Ringerix railway leads to a reduction in road traffic of importance and will thus affect the need for road investment in the area, perhaps on the contrary. This applies to all options, and that is my claim that this is what we have to consider when we are going to consider this further.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1614	Let me first say that the Council of State cannot simply confirm that the figures presented are representative of the Ringerix track and that area. Governments may feel that these figures form the basis for a national assessment more than a specific local assessment. But I'm not going to go into these numbers right here and now, but come back to this at a later stage. I expect that the figures and references to which the representative Stensaker refers will be significant both in the conclusion that the government has to draw when the matter is brought before the Stortingen, and finally in the assessment that the Stortingen makes when they reach final decisions in the matter, hopefully during the spring of 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1624	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Norwegian nurses’ associations have recommended that their members in hospitals and hospitals refuse overtime. If this is followed up by the nurses, we are facing a serious situation in the healthcare sector. What will the Council of State do on this occasion?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1633	The Employer's responsibility for the hospital and hospital care sector, with the exception of the state hospital, lies in the counties and municipalities. It is the responsibility of the employer to ensure that all use of overtime is carried out in accordance with the applicable legislation, i.e. the rules of the environmental protection law. The rules require that overtime can only be imposed in exceptional cases, e.g.: if sickness among employees disturbs or threatens to disrupt smooth operation or if there is a lack of special competence leading to a particular pressure on labour. As a result, the use of planned overtime per definition is contrary to the Working Environment Act. On the basis of this, the Norwegian Nurses' Association is in its full right when they recommend to their members not to carry out scheduled overtime. It would be otherwise if the Norwegian Association of Nursing Caregivers advised the members to refuse legally imposed overtime. Overdraft could then be a breach of the individual’s employment contract and obligation to work. It is the responsibility of the country to ensure access to nurses through adequate training capacity, to help recruit from other countries and to stimulate nurses who have moved into other sectors to return. The Ministry feels that the biggest challenge is not the recruitment of nurses, but the lack of jobs. The Ministry, through its action plan for health and social workers 1998–2001, has developed a number of measures to ensure adequate human access. Briefly, the following measures can be mentioned: increased admission capacity to nurse training, grants for decentralised nurse training, refresher training courses to recruit nurses who have been out of work for a while, and recruitment from other countries. We focus on having a good dialogue with the organisations on the arrangements and follow-up of the measures in the plan. It has been agreed to meet with the Norwegian Nursing Association on this in the near future. Furthermore, the Ministry will contribute to good jobs, where nurses may have the possibility of a lifelong career in full-time work without suffering physical or mental wear and tear. The Ministry has set up a programme in which we disseminate knowledge and experience from jobs with little absence and good work environment as examples for follow-up. With regard to developments in the specific situation, the supervisory authorities will monitor, as part of their ongoing activities, the development of hospitals beyond the requirements of sound operation. I have asked the health director to take a special look at this, and I would ask to be briefed if that was the case. Active efforts are required both from national authorities and from employers. In order to solve the lack of nurses, everyone must pull the load together.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1648	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. Of course, what the Minister of Health can do with this problem in the short term is limited when the State is not responsible for the operation, neither our hospitals nor care institutions. Although I understand the frustration of the nurses about being exploited by county councils and municipalities with overtime work and additional work that often goes out on health, I have no sense of a threat to refuse overtime work and extra work, which will affect patients first and foremost. Letters from several nurses' organisations in different counties may indicate that this recommendation can be followed up by very many nurses. Will the Minister of Health help us to change the law as soon as possible so that we can have more private, flexible rental arrangements for health professionals and thus get the most of the nurses who are out of service today?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1655	Like the representative Alvheim, I am very concerned about how we can get back to the nursing profession of those who are not currently active in the profession and who might think of coming back. This is one of the reasons why we are actively focusing on upgrading courses, which are designed to increase the safety of those who are considering coming back, in relation to the professional challenge they face in a constantly evolving healthcare system. The question of the legislation on the rental of health professionals is, as the representative of Alvheim will be familiar with, for treatment here in Stortinget. The government has expressed its assessment in the proposal, on the basis of the setting of the Blaalid Committee, and it is now in the hands of the Stortinge how the legislation at this point should be designed for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1662	I thank the Minister of Health again for the answer. There is one relation in connection with this that I could imagine asking the Minister for Health about. In the rest of the world, including in some Scandinavian countries, the relationship between nurses and caregivers, between these two professionals, has now begun to be considered. I know that in some hospitals in Sweden, there is a deliberate policy that reduces the number of nurses and increases the number of help nurses and can also be fully managed by the individual hospital. Could the Minister of Health also think in these lanes to get a better crew overall, perhaps with a shift of nurses compared to help nurses?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1669	We are interested from the Ministry in international experience relevant to Norway, which is about how we can make better use of the competences of health professionals in the healthcare sector as a whole. Where we lack staff and competence, it is essential that we use the skills properly, that the right person gets in the right place. Without going into the specific issue that the representative Alvheim is about to raise, I would like to say that we want to study the results to which the representative Alvheim refers with interest. In general, we will be concerned with facilitating that we use the personnel for what they're best at, and not for a number of other tasks that other groups can do just as well or better.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1677	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘I refer to previous questions from Aud Blattmann’s representative regarding the use of age as the only criterion for refusing an investigation into heart transplantation. The World Gang on 20 October 1999 shows that a lung disease does not have an operation due to age. Following the question from the representative Blattmann, the Council of State has changed the criteria for heart transplantation. What will the Council of State do for pulmonary disease in the corresponding situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1686	As I also pointed out in my reply to the representative, Aud Blattmann, it is the patient’s doctor or the hospital department in question who, after a medical evaluation, decides on the individual patient’s offer. Representative Rolf Terje Klungland refers to a look-up in the World Gang where a lung disease does not get surgery because of age. The look-up shows that it's a lung transplant. The Rikshospitalet is responsible for all transplant operations in Norway. I have been informed that one has not set an age limit, but due to the availability of organs, indicative age limits for various types of lung transplantation are practised: 40,45 years in heart-lung transplantation, 50,55 years in double-sided lung transplantation and about. 60 years in one-sided transplantation. A total of 107 patients have been transplanted, of which 105 have been transplanted since 1 January 1990. Four had passed 60 years at the transplant. Per. On October 18, 1999, there are 42 patients on the lung transplant list. So far, those waiting for a heart transplant, waiting for 311 days, 23 waiting for a double-sided transplant for 377 days, and 15 waiting for a single lung transplant over a year, on average. Organ deficiency is the main quantitative restriction in lung transplantation. There are relatively few donors who have lungs that are suitable for transplantation. The Rikshospital has assessed that, based on an overall assessment of age, general condition, operating risk and the possibility of good long-term outcomes, younger patients will need to be given priority on the waiting list. With today’s organ access, the waiting list represents at least two to three years’ waiting time before transplantation can be performed. The Rikshospital therefore considers that it is not appropriate to put the oldest patients on the waiting list. In the case of heart transplantation, the question of age was submitted to the State Hospital Council. The Hospital Council recommended that the chronological age limit no longer apply. However, the Hospital Council supported the view that under other similar conditions young people should be given priority over older people, but that the chronological age should not be given a decisive priority. This is what the Ministry has joined and announced to the Rikshospitalet. In principle, one might say that the same assessments will apply to lung transplantation. However, the situation in terms of access to organs is that it will take years for those on the waiting list today to have transplants. This is the basis for the practice chosen by the Rikshospitalet. However, I would like to ask the State Hospital Council for an opinion on this, as I did when it came to heart transplants.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1699	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. There is, for the most part, an ethical question as to whether or not to have rights to operate or actually to be assessed as relevant to a transplant. I have been in contact with this guy as stated in the VG, who has been refused because of age and nothing else. He has also been hospitalised for other reasons and has been checked, and they say that according to the state of health he is in now, there should be nothing in the way that he could take a transplant. But what makes me react extra much, is that he was one year too fresh and the next year too old, because he was then over 60 years old. I would like to ask the Council of State again whether he will consider this fairly quickly, so that we can have a change in the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1710	Of course, I am cut off from going into a discussion of the specific matter to which the representative of Klungland now refers. The main problem, which is also part of the ethical dilemma we face, is the lack of organs. It creates waiting times, and it creates priority challenges for the hospital. That is why I am very concerned about measures that can improve access to organ donation, and a number of proposals for action in this area have been followed up or are under follow-up. As I have announced, I will immediately ask the State Hospital Council for an opinion, so that their assessment can also be made on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1719	I also realise the health situation, and of course I agree with the Council of State that priorities should be set if there is a lack of organs. But what really made me react in this case is that it's just priority based on the age of 60. That one is 60 years old can't be a criterion, as I see it, in relation to priorities; it should be the most holistic view of those people who are going to have a possible transplant. But I am pleased with the positive answer I, as I see it, have received from the Council of State. I now assume that he will look at this, and that it will be followed up so that it becomes equality for everyone, and that the age limit itself does not become a criterion in the assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1724	Let me just make it clear that I have explained the practice that the Rikshospital has, the assessment that the Rikshospital assigns to age, and I have explained that I want an opinion from the State Hospital Council on this, as I got it when it came to heart transplants. And then we'll have to wait to draw the conclusions of this opinion available.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1732	I have a new question for the Minister of Health: «For a short time ago, a 74-year-old man with symptoms of heart attack was brought to Oslo Medical Watch, but was told to pull the lollipop and wait, which resulted in the patient dying shortly after. What has the Council of State done on the occasion of the case, and can we expect for the future that serious sick people will immediately be appointed by a doctor after arrival at Oslo Medical Watch?"
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1741	The handling of enquiries concerning immediate help outside hospitals is regulated by the Medical and Public Health Act. Paragraph 27 of the Medical Act obliges a doctor to provide the assistance he can provide as soon as possible when, after the information he has, he has to assume that medical care is urgently needed. The obligation falls away if the doctor has a valid maturity, or knows that help will be provided in time by another doctor. Section 1-1 of the Local Health Service Act requires municipalities to provide the necessary healthcare for all those who live or temporarily stay in the municipality. The municipality shall provide general medical services, including medical services, as provided for in Section 1-3, second paragraph, of the Act. 1st@item: inlistbox It follows from the Local Health Service Act that the municipality’s healthcare should also include emergency medical services. Pursuant to the provisions on emergency medical services § 3-1, the communication readiness system shall consist of a medical alarm phone number, emergency medical communication centres in an emergency hospital and medical care centres in a selected hospital/health centre. The receipt and follow-up of a medical emergency message is a medical professional task to be carried out by healthcare professionals, as stated in the Ordinance on Emergency Medical Service of 20 August 1990 § 2-1. Thus, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is required to maintain contact with emergency patients by qualified health professionals. In order to assess immediate assistance, the Norwegian Index of Emergency Medical Assistance is available, which has been revised in the current year. According to NOU 1998:9, 18 million patient contacts per year are available in the treatment area of local health services. Of these, 4.5 million cases are so seriously ill or injured that it is perceived by primary health services as immediate help. The vast majority of these, approx. 90 p.p., is treated in the municipal health service, while 410,000 are transferred to the hospital for evaluation and possible treatment. According to the same investigation, only a small proportion of hospitals are assessed to be in need of emergency treatment. It may therefore be associated with professional problems to determine whether an existing situation is immediate help. In particular, it is pointed out that in any competence, symptoms, as the patient expresses them and the findings made, could be unclear. The State Health Authority has the overall professional supervision of the health care in the country, according to the Supervisory Act. Together with the county doctors, the Health Authority forms the Health Authority. The county doctors supervised the medical services in the municipalities in 1997. A general experience was that the business had been short on developing internal control systems. As it emerges, it is the municipality that is responsible for establishing the necessary healthcare. For Oslo Municipal Medical Service, it will therefore be the municipality that is responsible for an organisation that ensures that patients receive immediate help. When I became familiar with the matter the representative Alvheim refers to, contact was immediately made with the Health Authority. The supervisory authority is now investigating what happened to Oslo Medical Watch. The County of Oslo has in a letter dated 8 October. to the Municipality of Oslo asked for the report to be sent to the patient concerned and asked for an opinion on the matter. I would like to await the assessment of the case by the State Health Authority, of the actions taken by the Municipality of Oslo, and of any proposals that may help to avoid similar events.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1762	I would like to thank the Minister of Health for the answer and stress that I am very pleased with the rapid reaction that the Minister of Health has also shown in this case. The tragic story of the Oslo Medical Watch, where a patient was brought in with a threatening heart attack and by an instrument was referred to the waiting room with a wicket in his hand, is almost unbelievable. The incident is clearly contrary to current legislation, and shows a human treatment and professional medical conduct that is totally unacceptable. I agree with the head of the Evening Post of 10 October 1999, which states that: ‘But it is not enough to evaluate the procedures. These scandalous relationships must simply be cleared up, and it must happen immediately.’ I agree with you. My follow-up question to the Minister of Health will then be: Will the Minister of Health help those responsible for such events to have a personal reaction that is noticed, as well as making sure that the procedures are changed?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1778	I have a great deal of understanding of the reaction of the representative Alvheim, and my rapid action is also an expression of a similar response to the comments made by the media in this matter. But I ask for an understanding that I have to refrain from characterizing this case, and relate to the follow-up to it, until the supervisory authorities have done their job. However, I assume that the supervisory authorities react to any offences and regulatory offences that may be detected. I would also like to point out that the Municipality of Oslo has already taken action to avoid such events repeating itself. The question of whether these measures are sufficient, I would first like to hear the views of the county doctor before commenting on them.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1785	I thank you again for the answer. I am more than surprised at the clinic manager's statement in the evening post on 10 October that one cannot use nurses to care for the emergency reception and sort patients at the Oslo Medical Service because the nurses will be overqualified for such a job. That is a completely incomprehensible statement. To this end, assessing the severity of patients in emergency situations should be a nurse task. There are many other tasks nurses do, which could be transferred to other professionals. There must be something fundamentally wrong when medical watch management can leave the assessment of emergency patients to unskilled weights. Does the Minister for Health agree with me in this assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1794	My main response was that it was actually prescribed that the contact with emergency patients should be maintained by qualified health professionals, so there is no doubt about that. I refer you to the Medical Emergency Service Regulation of 20 August 1999, § 2-1. I would also like to point out that the Municipality of Oslo has started work on measures to ensure that people with a health professional background have the task of observing patients before they are registered at the medical ward. These are the questions that I expect the county doctor to study more closely now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1804	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister for Oil and Energy: ‘The Norwegian State’s oil company Statoil also sells electricity and, by undermining all the players in the electricity market, has helped to lower the price rental on energy. The government wants to reduce consumption and raise the electricity charge, and believes this will improve the alternative, renewable energy market. Does the Council of State, which is the General Assembly of Statoil, believe that it is acceptable that the company contributes to destroying the political objectives of the Government, perhaps what will she do to ensure that the State does not destroy the State?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1813	The deregulation of the electricity market in Scandinavia in the 1990s has resulted in a Nordic power exchange, new framework conditions for the establishment of companies and the possibility for new players to establish themselves. Today, the electricity market in Scandinavia is very fragmented, with approx. 400 to 450 smaller sales companies and municipal electricity plants. At the same time, the market is undergoing relatively large upheavals. Electricity prices in the retail market will vary over time and will depend on production and demand conditions in Norway and our neighbouring countries. Which suppliers are the cheapest at a given time will also vary. This week lies, for example: Offers from Statoil more øre per. kWh above the cheapest market offer on the corresponding product. In other words, there is hardly any reason to argue that Statoil is undermining all actors in the electricity market. The limited size of the statoil in such a market indicates that Statoil alone will not lead the price level. Statoil currently probably has a market share of between 3 and 5 pst. of the domestic market in Norway. Statoil has commercial freedom and operates in several business lines. The company should compete on equal terms with other companies. As part of its adaptation to the energy market, the company has also chosen to sell electricity. Statoil is also committed to participating in the development of renewable energy forms, and is also building up competences related to so-called total energy solutions. One of the objectives of the power market is to ensure the efficient use of resources at all times. This objective may, for some periods, lead to low market prices, while in other periods it may lead to high market prices. As part of the political effort to try to limit electricity consumption, the Government wants to raise the electricity charge. The government also proposes to increase the fuel oil levy in order to avoid a transition from electricity to fuel oil. The tax increases will make energy saving measures more profitable, and they will hopefully also help to make alternative sources of heating relatively reasonable compared to electricity. The increased levy on heating oil will also make bioenergy more competitive. I can't see that there's any contradiction between the instruments we're making to try to change the energy policy, and that one at the same time has to rely on the fact that one has to operate within the framework of today's power market.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1828	I note that the Council of State does not initially see the need to use the possibility it has as a general meeting to tell Statoil about what they should do. SV was very optimistic when it spelled out the government's policy on climate and energy issues; not least in the Waxenå Declaration, this comes out well. It also appears partially in the budget – now that you don't know what comes out of it at the end, when you have negotiated. But there's no doubt that if the price of power is low, he's competing for alternative, renewable and sys to ensure that power consumption doesn't go down. So there's a clear context here. This means that the Statoil General Assembly accepts that Statoil is involved in a reduction in energy prices at least in the short term, contrary to what the Government stands for. The follow-up question is: Does the government accept this? And in addition, is it part of Statoil's core business to sell electricity?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1839	I hope that the SV and the representative of Langeland will continue to have a positive relationship with the Government's energy and environmental policy objectives, taking into account that this government has, in just under two years, doubled the economic investment in energy saving and alternative energy sources. It's at least a positive sign that SV should take with him. When it comes to the question of Statoil as a company alone lowering the prices of energy, I believe, as I said in my answer, that there is no basis for saying so. It will vary over time who is the most expensive and cheapest on the market, and per cent. October 25, Statoil is actually close to 1.5 cents a year. kWh over price in relation to e.g. Light energy in the area from which the representative Langeland comes. I have no basis as a general meeting to be able to go in and dictate the individual business areas that Statoil chooses to invest in. The core activity of Statoil is the production and transport of oil and gas, but Statoil also has commercial freedom to engage in business beyond the core business.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1848	The Council of State has previously said from this chair that she, among other things, is busy running Statoil with a nuclear activity, without clearly defining what it is. But as I'm interpreting the state council, because she doesn't want to intervene, the sal of the current is part of Statoil's core business. If you have other opinions, you should express it to Statoil now, when one also has a new director and new board. I thought part of the purpose of replacing the board was to get a new policy. Just as a comment on the bets made in relation to the budget: it's clear that it gives some optimism. The question is whether one does the same thing as the last one, that is, sell some of it out in the negotiations, and that would be a pity for SV. An additional point is that Statoil, as one public company in the power market, competes with a broken other public owned company. It seems to me like a strange policy when one at the same time knows that it leads to a lack of investment in alternative, renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1857	Let me say that I think it's nice that SV describes the government's commitment to energy saving and alternative energy sources as positive. It is also a good sign of further cooperation in both next year's budget and in the future. I am concerned with Statoil's core business, and Statoil's core business is, as I said in my previous answer, the production and transport of gas and oil. I have not claimed that the core business is something else, but I have said that focusing on the core business does not mean that Statoil does not have the freedom to engage commercially in other areas, whether it is refining, petrochemistry or the electricity market. Statoil has had the opportunity to do so, and so has Stortinget. Most electricity plants in Norway are still publicly owned. Therefore, there will be competition between different public-owned companies. The reason is that we deregulated the market in the 1990s, but we did not privatize. I believe that SV does not believe that we should privatise as well as deregulate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1869	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment: ‘The localisation of three family groups of wolves in Eastfold poses significant problems. Although the county had been designated as an area with low potential for conflict, the increased density of wolves has given large-sized animals trachea. A proposal for a management plan for wolves is being examined in the department. How long will it take to deal with the management plan?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1878	Based on Stortingen’s treatment of the 1997 report of wild game, the Government dealt with our question of the future management of wild game. It was then assumed that the wolf still has to be given a strict protection. The government also assumes that no provision should be made for the establishment of wolves in Sami domestically operated areas – as the Stortinget also stated in the treatment of the predatory game message – and in sheepy areas west of Glomma. The wolf population in southern Scandinavia has shown an annual growth of between 25 and 30 pst. – based on a very low level. The level of growth in the population in the last year will only show after the winter's tracking has ended, but I already consider the need for further measures related to wolf management. It is not correct that there is a proposal for a management plan for wolves for treatment in the Ministry of the Environment. On the other hand, in a letter to the Ministry in January this year, the Directorate for Nature Management made some assessments of the management of wolves. Furthermore, the district officials of Eastfold, Oslo and Akershus and Hedmark have been working to identify and assess conflicts and management measures regionally. On this basis, the counties have drawn up a joint draft management plan for wolves in these counties. The draft was forwarded by the counties to the Directorate for Nature Management on 21 June, together with opinions on the draft drafts of the wild game committees in the counties. The further procedure is now for the Directorate to carry out a professional review of the draft before sending it to the local hearing. The draft shall be included as part of the state-of-the-art predatory game plans. Following consultation, the management plans will be sent to the Directorate, which will seek advice from the Central Arbitration Committee before final approval. A thorough treatment and extensive local involvement are provided. I have expectations that the management plans for predators in the counties will be a good instrument for developing regional objectives and actions in the framework of national policies.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1889	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is worrying that wolves are now established throughout Eastfold counties — even up to cities and agglomerations. Limitations on grazing opportunities both on the land and on the land are limited to the value of farms and to the income of farmers. It is also recorded that game populations are being reduced in several areas of the county, resulting in loss of income. The Party considers that it is reasonable that livestock farmers should be given the opportunity to do so in order to make use of the resources provided by nature. Many of those affected by growing conflicts due to an increasing number of wolves feel that the many new and negative impacts and impacts that have come to the surface this summer need to be backed up by a credible management strategy. Does the Council not believe that the increasing level of conflict must have consequences, making it easier to pick up pests and enforce emergency measures?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1898	It is a challenge to meet both of the two objectives of the report of robberies to which a majority in the Grand Duchy and a majority in the Government have agreed, namely that we should be able to have both viable populations of the four major predators in Norway and to use herds for sheep and reindeer. We have worked on a number of measures to mitigate the conflicts. Among other things, conditional killing permits have been granted to the county officials in some cases and so on to the municipalities, so that killing can take place quickly when damage occurs. In addition, municipalities have also been very active with a number of places in terms of the distribution of preventive medicines, because we believe that they are the ones who have the shoe on, who know where it presses. We don't have the basis to apply a completely different management of the large predators, and especially wolves, until we have reached the stock target. But those who follow in what the Government does will see, among other things. Based on experience in gaupe, when the population increases, we're going to change the management.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1907	I thank the Council of State for the answer to the supplementary question. Now we're going to have to look at evolution. It may be appropriate for parties in Stortingen to re-address the questions raised in the report. However, in the light of the special situation we have in Eastfold, there is reason to stress the importance of providing the county with financial resources to carry out information work and to intensify work on the registration of wolves in the county. Furthermore, the county has to be given the necessary powers to grant the consent to the killing of wolves – not only conditionally, as the Council of State said, but also in the case of undesired wolves – pending the management plan. Will the Council of State contribute to this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1914	In the draft we have sent to the hearing in connection with the amendment of the game law, we are following up some of the areas in which the representative here is concerned. The draft consultation will show that the changes we are proposing, including: means that there shall be a greater chance of killing an animal when damage is in the process of occurring, both on a bump and on property. We have also proposed that consideration for the potential harm to people should be included in the wildlife law. So far, it's only been the police's case. We are also concerned that we should have the most accurate knowledge of populations. That is why both the current budget and the proposal for next year's budget are set out in significant resources for stock registration. And we're ready to start a wolf inventory program at the moment the snow comes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1924	I will ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘Placement of houseboats has created a major discussion in Arendal. It focuses on how negative this is in the coastal zone, and some want bans. However, houseboats can become an interesting dwelling option for some. Norway has a long coastline and it should be possible to facilitate this type of settlement in several coastal municipalities. Do the Council of State agree that municipalities where houseboats are available should regulate appropriate areas for houseboat accommodation in order to avoid conflicts and offer this form of housing more orderly conditions?’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1933	I am very concerned to ensure better accessibility for the public to coastal and beach sections. As a follow-up to St.meld. No 29 for 1996-97 on regional planning and land policy, I have therefore presented a separate package of measures, in particular to the Oslofjorden and the Agder regions. I would like, among other things: propose extending the national policy guidelines for coastal and maritime planning in the Oslo region to the Agder and Rogaland regions. The aim of the new measures is to preserve these very attractive and hard-pressed coastlines as unspoiled as possible for the future. Sea and land must be seen in the context. It is of importance what is happening at sea, even if this is not covered by the general construction ban applicable in the 100 metre belt. In the past, the Ministry of the Environment has responded to enquiries about the control options available in relation to the anchoring of houseboats. However, through the establishment of spatial plans or the establishment of statutes under the Planning and Building Act, the municipality can ensure adequate management of developments in this area. It is the individual municipality that is responsible for land use within its territory. The municipality shall weigh different considerations and settle conflicts through planning. Where a control plan is used, it is possible to facilitate special areas for anchoring houseboats. However, I would encourage the municipalities to be cautious in making such arrangements, as it will easily make the effort to ensure a general use of the coast more difficult. If a municipality wishes to lay out areas for the anchoring of houseboats, account must be taken of the general use of the coastal zone. The State may object to plans which do not comply with the national objectives in this area. If you do not agree locally, the matter will normally have to be decided by the Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1944	The answer was as expected: everything has to be tightened up. What my question is about is more of a principle. I want the authorities to look at this and to make sense in terms of e.g.: houseboats along the south coast. It is true that houseboats are relatively peaceful creatures compared to much of the other things we see at sea, so they should not constitute the great environmental plague in the archipelago image. Norway has a very long coastline, and there must be many locations where houseboats can be arranged – whether they are more or less permanent. I assume that the Council of State is not going to ban these houseboats. That would be very regrettable. The Council of State says that she will be careful to allow local authorities to make such arrangements, but that does mean that there should be a reasonable opening for local authorities to regulate appropriate areas for the accommodation of houseboats?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1953	I am a little surprised that my answer was interpreted as that we want to make everything more stringent. The main reason for concern about the situation in the beach zone is that we do not want ownership to be at the expense of all-person rights. It is a balance that has also been expressed by the Supreme Court in the famous ‘property judgment’. I have neither intended to prohibit – nor to override the municipality in any direction. I am well aware that the representative wants me to override the municipality in the direction of allowing this. My point in my first answer, however, was that this is actually a municipal responsibility. The municipality has the power to decide for itself by the Law on Planning and Building as long as the general interests are taken care of and the local conflicts are resolved. And that's what I think you're going to keep going.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1960	I'm tempted to use a concrete example by referring to a houseboat at Arendal. It's created certain waves in the media. But the fact is that all the landowners, the port authority and the technical main selection have formally given their full permission for the houseboat to lie right where it is today. The houseboat is located in a place where no one travels or goes ashore, and it is not at all a nuisance to its surroundings. Although the county has objections and refers to the second paragraph of Section 74 of the Law on Planning and Building, it is based only on a discretionary assessment by the county council, where he tries to remove the houseboat by means of this paragraph. As long as all local permits are in order with regard to the location of the houseboat, I perceive the council there that there is no wish for it to be a sort of central direction, that all power in such matters should lie with the department bureaucrats, and that you will have respect for what is taken by local decisions regarding where to put a houseboat.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1967	As far as I have brought the matter to my attention, the specific matter in the municipality of Arendal has not yet been finally resolved. The appeal is pending. I guess that's also some of the background for the newspaper writing. It is this government's clear position that we only intervene with local democracy if local democracy does not respect national guidelines, or if it does otherwise, for example. challenges citizens' rights. What will be decisive about whether or not to intervene in these kinds of issues is whether the municipality solves them in such a way that the rights of all-man and the public to free movement are respected.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1977	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister for the Environment: ‘The mountain reefs have been peaceful since 1930, yet one in Norway currently has a population of no more than 50 adult reefs. The largest population is found in Børgefjell, while the other populations are so scattered that there is a high risk of species extinction. What measures can the Council of State take to prevent the disappearance of an important part of our diversity of species, and have any economic assessments been made for any ‘rescue’ action?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1986	Let me in these wolf times express joy at the fact that there is also light set on other parts of the management of the wild animals. There is no doubt that there is a very important question the representative Gaundal is travelling here. Despite conservation for nearly 70 years, mountain reefs have not been able to restore viable populations in Norway. The situation in Norway from Børgefjell and southwards has to be regarded as well-charted and alarming. In the areas north of Børgefjell, the knowledge gaps for dissemination are greater. In the National Red List for Endangered Species in Norway, mountain reefs are classified as ‘directly threatened’. The populations in Sweden and Finland are also small. A key challenge in the management of mountain reefs is to gain better knowledge of the reason why we do not get to re-establishment. Several theories have been launched, including: competition from red reefs and shortage of food. In South Norway, we only have knowledge of young mountain reefs on Hardangervidda and Dovre. Registrations have been carried out in both areas to increase knowledge of biology and family structures. These studies are carried out with the financial support of the Directorate for Nature Management. In addition, mountain reefs have been one of the species included in the national monitoring programme. The mountain reef is an important part of our fauna, and I am serious about it being in danger of disappearing from Norway. I would therefore like to place great emphasis on identifying measures that can help improve the situation of mountain reefs in this country. In the future, it is important to continue monitoring, to identify habitats, to establish contingency plans to preserve existing populations and to identify alternative methods of restoration of the mountain reef population. We're working on this. I am aware that in February this year, the Norwegian Institute for Natural Research produced a report on mountain reefs containing proposals for management measures. These proposals will be considered. Environmental protection authorities also cooperate with our neighbouring countries in saving mountain reefs as part of the fauna of Scandinavia.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e1999	I thank the Council of State for the answer. IN NINA Mission Message No. 575 it is said that they have come to the conclusion that ‘the release of reefs is now the only possible measure that can contribute to a permanent increase in the population’. When it comes to the question of available resources for post-release monitoring, they say that ‘a clear prerequisite for launching a release project must be that there are resources to carry out the entire project’. When it comes to funding, I've heard that it's between 1 and 1/2 million. kr every year. My question is, when can we count on having the will and the economy put behind a project that leads us to be sure that we're mountain reefs in our fauna?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e2010	The representative is right that among the things NINA suggests, there are also proposals for the release of foxes from breeding. I said in my first answer that we need a certain amount of time to evaluate the concrete proposals, as well as to evaluate the knowledge and experience we have from monitoring. The release of reefs, as proposed by NINA, is a very controversial proposal, and it can also have adverse effects on the environment. It is therefore important to have a really professional and thorough assessment of this before deciding whether to do so. After that assessment has been carried out, it is of course also necessary to decide on the financing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e2015	Then my question becomes: is the Council of State willing to take the necessary steps to ensure that we are guaranteed to rescue the species? It comes to me that we are in a hurry, because it is so threatened that we have to be able to set a time perspective when the measures have to come.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e2020	There is no doubt that the Council of State is concerned about the problem and is willing to take action to save the mountain reefs. But it is a guiding principle in all environmental policies that one can never solve a problem in a way that can create others. This means that we need to have a proper professional assessment of the possible consequences of the relatively romantic proposals that NINA has made before we take a position on them, and before we possibly finance them.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e2029	I have the following questions for the Minister for the Environment: ‘The notification of predators did not determine whether a wolf strain should be established in Telemark/Agder. It now turns out that there are more or less spots observed in this area. Does the Council of State consider that a wolf tribe of its own should be permitted in Telemark/Agder?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e2038	As I said in my reply to the representative Hedstrøm, the government has suggested that it should not be facilitated for the establishment of wolves in areas of Sami domestic farming and in sheepy areas west of Glomma. The Stortinget argued that ‘there should not be an objective to establish a viable population of wild game in West Agder’. I think it might be close to drawing the same conclusion about the wolf. The peoples of Eastfold, Oslo and Akershus and Hedmark have carried out a survey and evaluation of conflicts and administrative measures in these counties with regard to wolves and a draft management plan has been developed. In Telemark and Agder a radio-labelled wolf has been observed since the summer. Similar efforts to identify and assess conflicts and management measures have not been carried out in these counties. In Telemark, during the first half of 2000, the county will prepare a draft management plan for predatory game, including the identification and assessment of conflicts and management measures. I would like to emphasise again that the wolf population in southern Scandinavia is growing, and that I will therefore continuously consider measures related to wolf management. In this respect, I would like to point out that last week it was sent to the hearing to propose changes to the game law. The legislative amendment proposal shall ensure active and differentiated management of the large predators once the populations have reached certain levels. I would like to add to a close dialogue with Stortinget on the further development of this administration. I will come back to the Storting in good time before the next grazing season with a statement to the wolf administration, a review of the 1999 loss situation and an evaluation of prevention and conversion measures.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e2051	I thank you for your answer. The fact that the Council of State bases the management of wolves in line with gloupe is clarifying, perhaps not least for the administration of the county. So as I understand it, there shouldn't be wolves in West Agder, while East Agder becomes a buffer zone and has to count on wolves. Agder has the highest density of sheep in the country with an estimated 100000 sheep. It can therefore be a massacre of dimensions if the wolf and gaupa develop freely. Does the Council of State appreciate the importance of the industry’s perception of the spread of gloat and wolf in established pastures?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e2058	I think I am very aware of the seriousness of the situation. I have said several times earlier from this pulpit and I would like to repeat that combining seemingly conflicting considerations in predatory policy, one of which, on the one hand, is to have viable populations of the four large predators and, on the other hand, to be able to use outlaws for sheep and pure, is a very difficult balance. But I want to stress that what is happening today is that the wolf has a very strict protection across the country. What would possibly be the consequence of having some type of differentiated management and perhaps some type of zoning will be that the wolf will receive less stringent protection in some areas. I think that's often forgotten in the discussion. It is quite obvious that no one believes that the wolf or other predators should be able to develop freely. So at the moment that we've reached the stock goal, it's at the heart of a different kind of management.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e2067	Once again, I thank the Council of State for what I want to see as a positive answer. But will the Council of State give the County of East-Agder, which becomes this buffer zone manager, a better chance of hunting unwanted animals, and will the Council of State instruct the County Environment Department to draw up a management plan for predators, where municipalities and organisations are involved in the preparation of the plan, as I see it, as the Council of State answers are done in Telemark?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e2074	Some of the purpose of the changes in the game law we have now sent to the hearing is to allow for greater freedom to take out animals that are expected to cause damage to property and bofe. There is also some background for us to include a formulation that allows us to regulate even under the wild law in a situation where we consider that there is a risk of harm to people. That means that being able to trap unwanted animals, or animals that are considered to have a great potential for damage, is part of what we're working on. We think it is important that we have good management plans, and of course I am interested in good cooperation with the county officials in all the counties where it is predatory. And I think it is important that any management plans are drawn up in close contact with the municipalities and the organisations concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e2081	That being the case, it is no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-27.ana.ud1230e2090	There is no record.
