ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e75	The called alternates, for Hordaland County of Terje Søviknes and for Eastfold County of Morten Olsen, have taken their seats. From the delegation of the Grand Duchy to the 45th session of the Western European Union Parliamentary Assembly in Paris, there is an application, signed by the Head of the Delegation, Mr Fridtjof Frank Gundersen. The application concerns the authorisation of the representative, Odd Eriksen, on 14 and 15 June, of the representatives, from 14 June to 17 June, of Danielsen, Laila Kaland, Jørgen Kosmo and Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, of the representatives, from 14 June to 17 June, of the representatives, Mr Godal and Finn Kristian Marthinsen, from 14 June to 18 June, and of the representative, Mr Hallgeir H. Langeland, from 15 June to 17 June. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave:For Akershus County: André KukkestadFor Buskerud County: Unni Hennum LieFor Møre and Romsdal County: Ottar KaldholFor Nordland County: Bears OlsenFor Oslo: Sissel DagsletFor Rogaland County: Ingrid FikaaFor Telemark County: Gunn Marit HelgesenFor Vestfold County: Karin Lian3. Ottar Kaldhol is elected to the Lamentations for the time he meets the representative of Laila Kaland.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e157	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e162	I suggest Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e167	Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting. The representative of Thorbjørn Jagland will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e172	On behalf of Grete Knudsen and myself, I would like to suggest that if the local public school has to be closed or degraded, no grants are given to private schools.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e177	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that this morning's meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the time of regulation. 15 to the current map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e196	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Anne Enger LahnsteinState Council Eldbjørg LøwerState Council Magnhild Melting Authority Kleppa The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the notified persons, wish to ask themselves the main questions are asked. – We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative Jan Petersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e215	I have a question for the Minister of Defence. The Bondevik government's defence policy seems to drive for the weather and the wind. It is a problem to get enough money for the structure that has been adopted, and there are ever new tasks that are pressing on, as the government has also suggested in the last proposition. Nevertheless, the Bondevik government is still proposing cuts in the defence budget. Now the government has wanted to reduce a sample to find out what they want. This sample shall include, inter alia: based on what the Government itself says is a realistic economic framework. Then my question is, what is a realistic economic framework? Does this mean that you have now given up resuming what has happened?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e224	Government long-term message, St. Announcement. No 22 for 1997-98, is firm. That means there's zero growth in the first two years of the long term and 0.5 pst. increase the next two.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e229	If that was the whole answer, does that mean that it's the definition of realistic economic framework, as the government uses? If the government now has the wish as the council says, how can she explain that the government is still proposing cuttings?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e234	Of course, in the context of the budgets, all areas to be covered by the budget are assessed. So we have had to reduce, even in the context of the revised national budget, the defence appropriations by 100 million. kr from an overall assessment. Of course you can regret that, but this is the way to sit and make a coherent budget. That means that we have to increase the rate later, so that we get this up to the level we have in the long-term message.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e239	There will be follow-up questions – Hallgeir H. Langeland.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e242	On Monday, the Stortinget decided to spend 24 billion kroner on investment in the Defence. It's a big sum of money, and for the corresponding sum, one could, for example, build ten new opera houses in Norway – at least. My question is, is this huge use of money on the defence as you can see now, is it related to the new defence concept that NATO now seems to be trying out in the Balkans?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e249	The two investments mentioned by the representative, which are both part of the investment profile dealt with by the Stortinget and which it has now decided to continue for frigates and fighter aircraft, are, according to the Swedish Defence Management, structurally independent. That means that no matter how we make a future structure for the Defense, this will be material that is relevant to use. Although I fully agree with the representative that this is a lot of money, it is at least essential that we get this type of material in place.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e254	Ingvalt Godal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e258	In a very open-heart talk this winter, the director of the Defence Research Institute, Nils Holme, said that there was a double imbalance in the Norwegian defence. There was a lack of consistency between objectives and means and a lack of consistency between investments and operations. This leads to a decline in reserves, poor maintenance, poor training – as we have seen when Norwegian soldiers are really going out – and a high risk of misinvestment. The fundamental task of defence is to achieve consistency between objectives and means. It doesn't make any sense to figure it out. Now, if we figure out a smaller structure, and the size of the thing that permits a little bit less than what one needs, we're in exactly the same mess as before. I would like to ask the Council of State to answer whether the Government will now syke that we get consistency between objectives and means. The majority in Stortinget is no problem. The right hand side and the forward side will base it on it, if the Government puts itself on such a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e267	I agree with the description of the imbalance in the defence. It's a huge task to try to get this closer to balance. This is done, among other things: by trying to streamline and organise differently within the structure we have today. From time to time, we present cases to Stortinget to help us obtain savings effects. It may have different results. But at least the need to make changes in order to release operational funds that we can later use for investment is urgent. The Government will continue to submit proposals for measures to improve the balance of this imbalance.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e272	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e275	My question goes to the Minister of Social Affairs. On 11 May of this year, the Council of State sent a letter to the rapporteurs of the country referring to a supervisory report from the Health Inspectorate which reveals weaknesses in the care of the elderly. I'll quote from the letter: ‘Perhaps someone claims that most of this is about resources. Yes, that's probably the answer in a single case. However, I would argue that this is primarily about BRYING.’ So it's about caring, says the Minister for Social Affairs. Does the Minister for Social Affairs understand that many employees who labor heavily in the care of the elderly and do their best every day feel hurt at this letter?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e287	If it was just this one who was the contents of the letter from the social minister, I understand that some have reason to feel hurt. This quote is related to three aspects that I point out to the municipalities, which the Health Inspectorate's report reveals. First, a third of the municipalities do not meet the basic needs of older people in institutions, for example: food, rhythm, hygiene. Second, 90 pst. by municipalities, internal control or plans to introduce it, and thirdly, there is no 75 pst. by the municipalities, to the satisfaction of the case-law. There is no doubt that better care for the elderly is about resources. For this reason, there is also a cross-political agreement to add 30 billion more to the care of the elderly over a period of four years. We're now in the second year of the plan. But there's no doubt that when it comes to the three areas that were pointed out here, it's not just about money, but it's also about the way an organization organizes things. In addition, it is probably important to focus on the hangars that must be used by relatives, carers and others to add and people elected together, including from a central point of view, to show respect for the individual elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e296	I record that the Council of State does not take self-criticism over the design of this letter and actually cuts everyone over one comb. My impression is that the nursing staff is doing their utmost to make it as good a service as possible. Nevertheless, it is going to fail, and it has its cause, among other things. in understaffing, and that it is difficult to get the money to stretch to. We now need several thousand new, healthy hands into the care professions every year. Can the Minister of Social Affairs admit that the economy was a little worse than the Central Party had promised the municipalities? And maybe she could brag a little bit of the good work that many people do, so that they feel a little valued, so that more people can be motivated to go into these so important professions in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e303	For 1997, the Centre Party and the Centre Party contributed to the Workers’ Party’s construction of the municipality with more than DKK 5 billion. They're still inside, as well as the additions that have been made. That's the economy. When it comes to caregivers' efforts, I share Gunhild's view, that there is a formidable effort by a lot of people within this sector, and there are also a lot of people who are much longer than one should expect. The main purpose of my letter is in relation to four questions that I ask the spokespersons to address. One of them is to ensure that the personnel in the care sector are able to engage in dialogue with local authorities in order to have a common understanding of the situation. In some municipalities, the dialogue is well established – it gives me feedback – in other municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e310	There will be follow-up questions – Bendiks H. Arnesen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e313	In the wake of the Health Inspectorate's report on some aspects of care for the elderly, it is feared both by relatives and by older people themselves, and people feel a fear of old age. This should be unnecessary, because care for the elderly in very many municipalities – in the vast majority of municipalities – is good. What will the Council of State do to prevent the entire care being attacked when individual cases are detected, as we have seen?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e318	The most important thing we can do is to ensure that the action plan for better care for the elderly is followed up year after year, and to put the search light on the content and quality of the services to be provided and to provide the good examples. I will do that in a big message that has the title ‘Care 2000’, which will be submitted to Stortinget late. Then there's a group that especially like lir. They're the age units. They should be given special attention in the Storing Message. In that context, we had an idea last night, where we found that a lot of things have been done, but that also puts the search light on what the Arnesen here refers to, that there are a lot of older people who get very good care, including among the age units.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e325	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e329	I think we're all aware that it's going to be a little bit more than just caring about getting a proper care for the elderly in Norway. After the decision on the elderly package to which the Stortinget has agreed, there have been speakers, who have been present in the past, among others. granted grants to nursing homes and nursing homes. I would like to ask the Council of State if she agrees that if we do not quickly get more sick homes in the municipalities of this country, we will have a housing reform and not a care reform.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e336	I share the concerns expressed by the representative Nesvik if it is such that the care homes are not manned by personnel compared to those who live in the dwellings. What is out there is the fact that there is now a convergence between the contents of hospitals and the contents of care centres, where there are questions of day-to-day care and care. So it's all day service that will be the deciding thing. We now have a review both to look at the distribution here and to ensure that the objectives set in the action plan for better care for the elderly are met, even when it relates to the distribution between care centres and health care centres.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e343	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e346	I think I have to ask the Social Minister a question. She was in the answer to the previous follow-up questions about luck care and how important it is, and I have a main question that goes a little bit in the same street. We see that municipalities have a pushed economy, and we see that some municipalities actually age their budgets with the elderly, the sick, the nursing and the disabled. In Søgne municipality in Vest-Agder, the local council has decided that nursing people living in nursing homes, and disabled people who also receive an offer from the municipality, in order to get the budget to go together, will have to pay an extra 500 kroner a month in rent in addition to the price regulation of 4 pst. My question to the Minister of Social Affairs about the Minister of Social Affairs is that the municipality of Norway – and the local authorities in particular, as this is the case here – obliges people to pay such sums.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e353	I expect it to be understood that I cannot go directly into the decisions taken by the local authority here. To that I know the matter too little, and I would like to receive some more detailed documentation on it. What is the case is that there are a lot of municipalities in this country doing the opposite of what Kleppe says now. They do not balance their budgets with measures for the elderly and the disabled; on the contrary, the action plan for better care for the elderly has led to better care for the elderly being an area of activity in the vast majority of municipalities in this country. Then it is that the municipalities themselves have some freedom within certain frameworks both when it comes to what the rent is to take and what the property is to take. There are some municipalities that use more than others, depending on what income they have, and depending on what services they want to provide. And in some municipalities, a lot of older people would like to pay more for the services if the option is that they don't exist. From the department's side, there's something wrong with your own payment. It was in its time a selection, which has been dubbed the Jensen selection, that looked at various features and payment arrangements. They made cracking recommendations, which for that reason it might have taken time to follow up. We're now looking at how we can follow up at least parts of them.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e364	The Right-Handled Municipality of Search in West Agder is probably a special case, as I see it. Here none of the people who receive an extra charge of NOK 6000 per year have received an individual treatment. No account has been taken of the pension base and the income base of each person until the price of additional DKK 500 was fixed. Then my natural question about the social minister will be better placed in the circumstances of the local council, and make sure that the individual is treated individually at least in the light of the individual's ability to pay these rent increases that the municipality has justified with the obligations they have received and that they have to balance their budget. And then they go to the weakest of the weakest.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e371	The President fully understands that the Minister for Social Affairs does not know the details of this matter, and she has already indicated, to a large extent, that she would like to be better involved in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e374	I understand that the representative Vidar Kleppe now asks me to take a closer look at the priorities that are being made in the Right- Controlled Search Municipality, as he says. I will take his summons seriously so far that I will get more information, but I will not for that reason advance that I will go into how the municipalities do their priorities within the framework that has already been created by accumulation and government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e379	There will be follow-up questions – Asmund Kristoffersen
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e382	It is not to assist the Council of State in the answer, because it is not necessary, but I am very surprised when I hear how the Progress Party talks about the local economy, when you know that once again they propose difficult cuts in the transfers to the municipalities, which must also affect the care sector. But the question that has been raised is nevertheless important enough. I have registered that some municipalities are attempting to set up a rental house that does not seem to be proportionate to the costs incurred by the municipality in the housing sector after the state has submitted grants both for investment and for operation. And I would like to ask the Council of State: what limitations does the Council of State see that it is necessary to work towards the municipalities in order to ensure that the municipalities set a maximum rent, and not simply to exceed a limit that goes beyond what should be the municipal expenditure on these dwellings?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e391	The President will stress that the spontaneous questioning time is not the place to polemise against other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e395	I would like to thank Asmund Kristoffersen for his kind reminder of the lack of commitment to the Progress Party for the overall community economy, which, of course, must also follow up its priorities for Søgne municipality. So to his question. What is currently the case in municipalities is that there are different payment schemes for the elderly, depending on whether they have been given an old-age home place, a health care home place or a care home. The services do not need to be that different, but the payment arrangements are different. This is now very important for me to review, and that is why I am looking at both how I can follow up the sales in the Jensen selection, and how we can coordinate the payment arrangements with the offers and services that are otherwise the same.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e402	Admits Gabrielsen to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e405	The representative Kleppe made such a special number of the Right-steered Municipality of Søgne, which is subject to the same regulations as others regarding the fixing of rent and reimbursement of any housing support schemes. He made a number that there should be no individual rental rates depending on the pension conditions. Is it not the case that there is individual treatment for all applicants for housing support schemes based on the income and expenditure they have? Is it true that this is the current rule? I could also imagine getting the social minister's opinion on whether she would feel more comfortable in governing with the municipal structure of the Progress Party, whether it had to be assumed that it would lead to a better situation for the elderly in Search and, to some extent, also in other municipalities, than with the agreed arrangement that exists.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e412	When it comes to housing support, it's the municipal minister's case, just so they say. But of course, there is a connection between housing support and other payment arrangements. I can confirm what Ansgar Gabrielsen says here, that in an application for support, an individual assessment is given. So to his question about what I would feel most comfortable with. There is a very big difference between the different parties' municipal arrangements, with the Progress Party being lowered, according to the budgets they propose. Now it is that I have not been directly impressed with right-wing arrangements for the municipal sector either. They have also often led to separation. Luckily, they were on a defensive and good schedule this year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e419	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e422	I'll be allowed to ask the Minister of Culture a question about opera. It is true that if it becomes a majority of the Western Railways, the government parties in the Stortinget have gone in order to tear down a peaceful building, the station master building, and I assume that this is consistent and in contact with the Minister of Culture. What's special about this is that you have a reason why you want to tear down the station master building, and that's to make more money by selling plots. There's nothing wrong with making money, but my question is, have we ever had a Minister of Culture who accepts that a peaceful building, owned by the state, is being sold to victims, torn down and the area to make money?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e429	Let me say a little bit about the opera cause. It is true that we have now for the second time suggested that the Storting should consider the proposal for a new opera in Oslo next week. In this context, it has been the localization issue that has been most focused, because everyone knows that last year it was found that there was a majority to build an opera. I therefore attach great importance to the adoption on 15 June of a location of the opera, so that we can realize this important cultural project. I can take the opportunity to say that I am pleased that the Bjørvika proposal that is being put to the vote has included the limitations that are also contained in the Government's recommendation on a possible subsidiary position for Bjørvika. With regard to the setting and the Vestbahn option, I have recorded in the debate that the question of the station master building has been raised again. I want to point out that in the first proposition we made last year, the government had also opened up so that the architectural competition could ignore the station master building in one alternative, and that's for the sake of the opera. In fact, the station master building limits the site in relation to the opera and the design of a new opera house, both with space and with an opening to the sea side. It has been my reason that in this context I opened up so that you could ignore the station master building. Otherwise, this is a difficult matter. There is one thing that means that different cultural considerations can stand up to each other.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e440	I find here that the Council of State does not respond to what I am asking for. She tries to slip away, but my question is quite simply: does she support the reasons given by the governing parties in the Stortinget regarding the demolition of the station master's building? Another strange thing is that the Minister for the Environment has sent a cultural monument to the Stortinget. In that cultural memory law, the main slogan is: Let's have a hard time for the future in the protection of cultural memories. Then it's a cross of thought for me that the government parties and the council break, and the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Environmental Protection cracks. What governance does the Minister of Culture actually have on this matter? My main question, to which I would like an answer, is whether the Minister of Culture supports the argument about demolition because of economic gain.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e447	Let me say to the recording that came from the Minister for the Environment: I support the Minister for the Environment as regards the importance of preserving cultural memories. Of course I do. The Minister for the Environment, who is the head of the Cultural Memory Act, has also said in connection with the Station Master Building that there is a situation where one high-ranking cultural purpose may conflict with another high-ranking cultural purpose. I'm justifying the opening to remove a peaceful building, the station master building, with regard to the opera building. I made that clear in my first reply to the representative Fossum. That's also what was the rationale in the proposition that we made over a year ago. When it comes to the issue of the economy related to the Western Path option, I expect it to be a Tuesday issue, when this matter comes up, and I don't want to go into it any further.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e454	There will be follow-up questions – Trond Helleland.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e457	As part of the alliance that wants the West Railway, I would like to stress that when we go in to lift the decision on the peace of the station master building, it is for the sake of the possible monumentality of the opera. Being able to open up the opera to the sea side has been an important argument in this regard. The economic arguments are not so important. Does the Minister of Culture think that it may be right to open up the demolition of the station master building, or possibly other buildings, if one is faced with a choice between two cultural projects, between, for example: this building and a cultural project such as the opera, which is a hundred-year project, to be an opera for 100 years. There has to be a reason that, in my opinion, can defend the lifting of a peace decision, and that allows us to get an opera that can really be great, and that can have a facade out to the sea.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e463	The representative of Greece uses the exact same argument that I used in my response to Fossum, namely that the location of the opera, the monumental embossing and opening to the sea side, is a very important consideration when making such a big investment and investment in the cultural field as an opera is. That's why I'm saying like Guro Mountaines, that here you can have two cultural points of view that go against each other, and then we have to choose. I'm open to choosing a monumental opera on the West Railway. I would also like to say that there is a shared view of the value of the station master building, even if it is at peace. Of course, I have great respect for the safeguard provisions, and I am also familiar with the procedures that may be necessary in order to repeal a rescue decision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e468	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e471	I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Social Affairs. I know that the Social Minister in these days is putting the last hand on the work in connection with a difference message that the Storting will get. It will show that differences in Norway have increased. For example, the ten percent richest in 1986 had 50 pst. of all dividends paid in Norway, while 10 years later, in 1996, they had 90 pst. of all dividends paid in shares. At the other end, many are struggling, and the poorest in Norway have had less income. It's hard to have bad advice in a country where you can look around and see that many have good advice. What I want to ask the Minister for Social Affairs is the following: What kind of strategy does the Government want to create an alliance on the Storting that can combat increased differences? Is the Social Minister satisfied with an alliance with the Right and the Advance Party, which we have now tried in four budget rounds – two budget rounds and two revised budget rounds?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e480	For the first time, I can confirm Kristin Halvorsen's description of the situation. It is such that the 10 percentage points highest on the income scale have better revenues for a 10-year period of 28 pst. The 10 percentage points at the bottom of the income scale show that the analyses have improved in income by 1 pst. This means that the differences have increased. The most important thing is, of course, to look at where these are at the bottom of the income scale, and what can be done to make them better take care of themselves and support themselves. I must be allowed to come back to the specific suggestions when the message is submitted. That's what she's going to be in June. I must also be allowed to come back to the strategies. Let me say this: we want to get through the most possible of our proposals. This is a big message. There will be discussions in relation to the situation and discussion of what action should be taken — some of which we hope may be implemented in the short term, and some of them in the longer term. We want to be interested in cooperation with the parties that are willing to participate in reducing the differences that we are now seeing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e487	The Social Minister knows that the key to doing something about the increased differences in Norway is what kind of tax system you have. One reason why the richest have become so much richer is that the share yield is not taxed on the recipient's hand. It's just that if you're a millionaire on a dividend, you don't pay taxes on that money yourself. But if you're a millionaire on ordinary employee income, you pay significant taxes. There is an injustice in the tax system, which in itself is the main reason why differences increase. In order to combat the differences, to get something done with those who labor the most, we need a few billion dollars that can be redistributed. Then my question is, is it with the Right and the Advance Party that one can cope with such a redistribution that can do something for those who struggle the most, while at the same time limiting those who have really left the last few years?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e492	If the political situation had been as simple as the representative Kristin Halvorsen describes, perhaps the strategies too would have been somewhat easier to relate to. Let me remind you that the government last autumn 1998, i.e. for the current budget, made proposals for changes in the tax system that would have followed some redistribution. There was no majority in Stortinget, and it was the Labour Party that was first out and flagged that they were not going to go in for increased taxes. We have received support from the Progress Party and the Right, together with the Progress Party, Right and SV, to increase the minimum pension. We now see that there were 330,000 who got a share in that increase. So here the constellations can be swapped.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e499	There will be follow-up questions – Øystein Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e502	It is true that the Government proposed a certain approximation of taxes on capital and labour. But what that case showed was that the government is not upright on one of its own proposals. All the proposals made to the Stortinget are drawn up as soon as negotiations with the Right and the Advance Party have been started. In fact — and I believe that the Minister for Social Affairs will agree — it is quite impossible to imagine that a substantial redistribution of wealth and income should be carried out in Norway with the support of the two right-wing parties that are now leaning on. In a previous word change here, it was about what the Minister of Social Affairs thought about a right-wing municipality. I'm not a moment in doubt that the Minister of Social Affairs would have preferred to cooperate on the left. This means that if the proposals contained in the disparity communication are to be implemented, which many people are now expecting, the Minister must have thought through how it is possible to get an effective follow-up to this. And if you just take the little thing that Halvorsen was dealing with, that is, taxing dividends on shares, it would be impossible to get together with the right-hand side. My real challenge to the Minister of Social Affairs is as follows: If you want to get this through, how do you intend to do it without going to the left of the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e511	The representative Øystein Djupedal and I are some that tax is a means of smoothing out. The tax and the way we set up the systems may seem confusing. I also think that we are some of the people who say that specific tax proposals come into the annual budgets and are handled by the Minister of Finance. I also believe that the representative, Mr Djupedal, understands that when it comes to concrete strategies for how to get more for our proposals in the anti-sampling message, we will probably have to put forward these proposals first and find out how they will be received. Traditionally, it has been that the Labour Party and the Centre Party and SV have been united in the light of our programme for a redistribution that has been outlined here, but I have pointed out that there are surprises here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e518	Asmund Kristoffersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e521	The discussion of increasing differences in a welfare country is essential. So one of the differences in income base and therefore also living conditions goes between those who have a job and those who do not have a job – between those who have a job and those who have a social security source of income. I have noticed that there has been a consistent under-regulation of the basic amounts of popular protection, and in the long run this must increase the differences between these very groups that have work and those that depend on social security as a source of income. And then my question is to the Social Minister: how does the Government intend to avoid increasing differences between social security and others, when a consistent, even with reference to last year's social security settlement, underregulates the basic amount of popular security?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e529	The resolution is for debate in Stortingen next week. It is clear from the case that the Government has sent to the Storting, that this year we are submitting a proposal for social security payments that are consistent with the salary growth of 4.5 p.m. – we propose 4.5 pst. increase in social security. Then, too, as Mr Kristoffersen pointed out, it can be shown that in previous years there has not always been the same agreement. It is Asmund Kristoffersen's party that has been responsible for the government, which has held the negotiations and has largely presented that kind of proposal to the Stortinget, and has also received support. It goes without saying that a priority must be given to scarce budgets. Should a clean-up year by year, or should a return to other social security policies, or prioritise other tasks?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e536	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e539	I have a question for the Minister of Defence. We are now in a situation where Norwegian country forces are likely to enter Kosovo as part of an international peace-building force. A simple operational assessment indicates that this will not be a simple task. The situation vis-à-vis the parties is highly uncertain, terrain, geography and climate indicate that this can be very difficult. In such a situation, it is sadly realistic and fully possible to imagine that the Norwegian peacekeeping force, where Norwegian departments are involved, may be in an operational situation where local use of anti-personnel mines is the only solution to a tactically unsustainable situation. Norwegian units can be part of this. If a Norwegian commander were to come into such a situation that this is the only way to save the lives of soldiers, she or he could, according to the law, be punished with fines or imprisonment for up to two years. Does the Minister for Defence feel comfortable with such a situation description, which can be very realistic?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e550	First of all, I would like to say that what Norway is going to contribute to the international operations in Kosovo is to be assessed in the Government these days, and we will come back to the Great Britain with how we are going to contribute, balanced with what we now have in Bosnia, because we see clearly that we cannot manage to hold full forces both in Bosnia and Kosovo at the same time. On the specific question of an imaginary situation raised by the representative, I do not have a clear answer in one way or another, because it will depend on the strength with which we are going to contribute, what measures for their own security they must have. Nor can I use the law so well on this point that I can confirm exactly what the representative says, but I do not doubt his interpretation of the law. But I think we need to be aware that participation by Norwegian forces in international operations in the future will have some dangers in itself that we may not have really taken politically inwards and put on a proper debate. Nor can we expect Norwegian forces to be able to contribute where it is safe. So I think we all have a responsibility to see the reality in our eyes of these difficult tasks that Norway, too, must be involved in in connection with its commitment to NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e557	Now it is quite exactly a year since this law was passed in this house, and it is, I think, very realistic and timely to ask the Council of State to what extent she believes that this law should be followed. It also has something to do with the recruitment question. We know that recruiting personnel for these missions is not that easy, so I think a commander would be very interested to know how he or she can get into a situation and how they will get out of it. It will also mean a lot to the families that may be left at home, knowing how the lives of the soldiers can be protected.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e564	Of course, it's not in any way meant to be in a spontaneous questioning hour and doubt whether a law should be followed. That is clearly a law to be followed. What I said was that I didn't know it that way in detail. Of course, the operations to be carried out by Norway must take into account, inter alia: the safety of the personnel involved. But what I meant to say was that we still shouldn't ignore that there might be dangerous situations. I know that questions have been put on the part of staff, among other things. the insurance schemes applicable to participation in operations. It is a work that is in progress and will be clarified during 1999. Just insurance schemes have been a critical issue in precisely recruiting personnel for international operations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e569	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e572	My question goes to the Minister of Defence and deals with preparedness in the North Sea. We know that many countries, in addition to Norway, depend on everything working well on our gas and oil installations. We have the same readiness today as we had in 1981, but after that time oil production has grown seven times larger, and we now have over 80 sites to keep an eye on, while you had about that time. 10 places. The Ministry of Justice is responsible for peacetime, and the Ministry of Defence must be responsible for crises and war. In my opinion, it is only the defence that has the competence, the resources and the material to meet part of these very special challenges. The Defence Command has proposed strengthening the Special Defense Command. What does the Council of State do specifically to meet these challenges, and how will the coordination of responsibilities take place?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e581	The question of strengthening the Special Forces of Defence has been raised by the Stortingen in connection with Innst. S. No 207 for 1998-99. And as a result of that setting and call from Stortinget, the Defence Command has started work to assess how to expand the Special Forces of Defence. The Defence Command is about to finish this work. It has not yet been sent to me. I have been communicated via the media that it is on my table, but it has not actually come that far. But I see that it has such a great deal of change in it that I want to take it in and assess it in connection with the next long-term message for the defense. I fully agree with the questioner's description of the major new challenges that have arisen, namely that we have large installations on the base that are vulnerable and that must certainly be part of the defence and security measures that Norway takes seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e590	That sounds good. But can we wait to clear up the coordination responsibility between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Defence until we get as far as we can deal with the long-term notification? I think that seems a little long. Under the government of Jagland, a government secretarial committee was set up to go through responsibilities and coordination. Is this work continued, and will we here in Stortinget have the opportunity to get some pieces in place before we get as far as the long-term message?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e597	I did not answer that question. I responded to the expansion of the special forces. Of course, we need a preparedness and coordination of preparedness on the way until the long-term message comes, which is good enough. Just where that work is, I don't know. But the representative points to an important problem that I will then immediately get into, and I will come back to Stortinget and give a description of where the work is. I promise.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e605	There will be follow-up questions – Bjørn Tore Godal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e608	I think we have to say that the last one is urgent. We know a conflict of competence between the Ministry of Defence and the underlying agencies and the Ministry of Justice. And in the light of the problem that the representative Rui traveled, this is a number of more short-term perspectives than a fundamental strengthening of the Special Forces of Defence. I recognize that it takes a little longer. But here we are dealing with a rather acute situation, where we have to find that the level of preparedness is at the same low level now as it was too many years ago, while the seriousness of the tasks is time-consuming. In the long run, we cannot deal with this in relation to cooperating nations in the oil sector if we do not have an immediate review of this. I have reason to believe that the work initiated by a State Secretary's Committee under the Government of the Workers' Party has not been continued. And then the question is: will the Council of State immediately take the initiative to do so now, and that the Stortinge will receive the necessary feedback on how this preparedness is to be ensured?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e613	The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e618	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e621	My question goes to the working oil and energy minister. The State sits on all sides of the table in the petroleum sector. The Minister of Economic Affairs manages a majority position in Norsk Hydro. The Minister of Oil and Energy is the General Assembly in Statoil. At the same time, the State is both the supervisor and the concession provider for all companies operating on Norwegian base. That there's an obvious risk of roll-over, we've seen in the process around Saga, where it's obvious that the government has problems knowing completely which hat to wear on your head. After Hydro and Statoil agreed to share Saga, the Minister of Oil and Energy said to the TV2 news: «And then, of course, I am pleased that a result has been obtained which means that these important values can remain in Norwegian hands.» In other words, the decision to make by Saga's shareholders was foreshadowed. Is this an opinion that can be written on the Council's loss allowance? Can the Council of State now guarantee equal treatment between Norwegian and foreign companies in the process around Saga?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e637	Jan Tore Sanner is right at one point, namely that the State has many functions in terms of oil and gas activities, partly owned by Hydro and partly owned by Statoil, which also has interests in Saga. But the representative Sanner is completely wrong when he claims that there has been a mix of roles and losses in dealing with this specific matter. An isolated quote from me on the TV 2 news cannot be interpreted as any form of non-discrimination between the possible actors and stakeholders who could come up with what is now happening with Saga. On the contrary, I believe that we as government officials and as owners have kept a very clear line. I have, as a general meeting and owner of Statoil, asked the board to assess this matter on a commercial basis. I have also asked to be briefed in case of changes. We have seen that Elf has made a new offer on Saga. We're dealing with the fact that these are business issues, which you evaluate on a commercial basis, and that's to the extent that we have the management of this. But it cannot be that we, who have such great interests — and as officials — should not generally be able to comment on as important oil policy issues as this is about.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e646	In the same TV 2 interview, the Minister of Industry said that it would be quite pointless for others to try to make bids after Statoil and Hydro had agreed on the so-called division of Saga. I record that the ESA, the EEA Supervisory Authority, has also been concerned about the Government’s position. At the latest in Today's Business Today Knut Almestad states: «...it aroused concern when the battle of Saga began. Since it could appear that Norwegian authorities acted in a way that prevented one of the four freedoms of the EEA Agreement...’» In other words, not only the Right has been concerned about non-discrimination, but also the EEA “supervisory body, ESA. Now I am aware that Councillor Lahnstein is not particularly enthusiastic about the EEA Agreement, but as Councillor she is nevertheless obliged to act in line with Norway's obligations. My question will therefore be whether the Council of State can guarantee that no new political leaders will be given, or a new political interference that will distort the requirement of non-discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e660	Of course, it will be that we deal with the legislation that exists, and then, of course, the EEA Agreement is an important piece of legislation, which we will follow and thus ensure non-discrimination. It is a wrong interpretation – as I see it – of the interview given to TV 2 by the Minister of Industry, when Sanner refers to the pointless submission of any bids by others. I realized that the pointless thing in this context was related to Statoil actually owning 20 pst. of Saga, and therefore also, as the owner of Saga, will of course have to consider the commandments that come on Saga from a different team than from Hydro. With regard to ESA and the vigilance of the Authority in relation to what is happening in Norway, it is a task that the staff of ESA takes very seriously. We note that we have been within the legislation in force in Norway, and this should be lacking in any case.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e669	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e672	I want to ask Minister of Culture Lahnstein a question about the fees from the cinema tickets sold and from the video industry, which goes to grants for the operation of the urban cinemas. The first cinematography I've ever seen was at such a cinema. It was unfortunately many years ago, and a lot has changed since then. Builders were supposed to make sure that people in pig-grown strips had the opportunity to watch a good movie. This was originally a state responsibility, but in 1998 a new law passed on this responsibility to the Landsförbund of Kommunale Kinematographers. One of the many tasks that Norwegian cinema and film funds were charged was to levy a statutory fee on the marketing of films and videos. This fee was 2,5 pst. and e.g. The video industry pays approx. Seventeen million. kr. Is it true that the cinema and video industries are strongly subsidising urban cinemas? If we are to have this system, is it not a state responsibility, so that the cinema and video industry are not burdened with this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e681	I guess it's not surprising if I say that I think the solidarity transfer system that the industry here has taken on is an excellent one. The scheme has been operating for very many years and has provided the basis for an important cultural offer in many pig-grown areas, namely the rural cinema. There is a great deal of interest in private cinema in Norway, and we see that we have to go through the arrangements that exist. There is also something about which the professional organisation film and cinema are concerned. That is why I have announced that during June we will set up a public sample to assess Norwegian cinema policy. The background is the restructuring of the cinema industry and the uncertainty it has created for the future cinema offer in Norway. What should be analysed is the role of the public in cinema policy. We have proposed that this be proposed in order to ensure a continued geographically differentiated cinematographic structure. In my view, this is perhaps the most widely used cultural offer, and it is important for me to help you go through this now and make sure – despite the changes that are now coming – that you can ensure what is the point, that is, an offer across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e689	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am of the opinion that the Council of State at least agrees to some extent that the time has passed the urban cinema: we are all very mobile. Most of us have either satellite or cable TV systems, and almost everyone has video. Some also have the ability to watch movies through the computer. In addition, the number of TV channels has grown strongly in recent years, and many of the common urban cinemas have become much better by getting better sound, pictures, seating comfort and service in general. Could the Council of State also look at the regulations of this law, as she briefed us on, so that KKL is freer to allocate funds from the fund to various measures in the film and video industries?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e698	I have now referred to the fact that during June we have plans to set up a selection to go through this whole policy area. The aim is to secure the future of the urban cinema. I do not agree with Bredvold regarding his assessment that the time has run out of the urban cinema. On the contrary, I think it might be a reindeer for the urban cinema, because people get tired of sitting at home in their living rooms watching video and TV, and because they like the community experiences of the dark room, which the cinema represents.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e705	And then the time for the oral questioning process is over, and we're going to go on to the map of the day. At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 2 and 3 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e728	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 35 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and Twist People's Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e735	Today, the size must be treated with St.meld. No 21 on rehabilitation and, in the same context, Document No. 8:48 on the operating conditions of the Haugland Rehabilitation Centre are dealt with. An overall committee is pleased that there is now a large-scale message to outsource the future rehabilitation and habilitation work. This area is currently characterised by a lack of planning and coordination, unclear responsibilities and insufficient user involvement. The objective of this Communication must be to ensure equivalent offers to all, irrespective of income, place of residence and category of disease, and there must be room for both long-term and short-term action on the basis of the individual’s needs and situation in life. The most important thing in terms of rehabilitation and rehabilitation is to provide people who need these services with the best possible life situation and opportunities to participate in society. No one can deny that the user himself is the main actor in a rehabilitation and rehabilitation scheme. This means that user involvement must be central and must be set up in such a way as to maximise the user’s influence and control over the whole process. The Committee considers it important that the working groups and user groups have a common concept in terms of rehabilitation and rehabilitation. The majority do not appear to be able to provide a definition of these concepts that ensures a common understanding. The Committee considers that rehabilitation is about both changing the individual’s prerequisites for functioning and compensating for functional losses by facilitating technical measures. It is also agreed that rehabilitation needs to be seen as a time-limited process, although the rehabilitation process may take a long time, and that many people are dependent on repeated rehabilitation in order to maintain their functioning. Furthermore, the Committee is of the opinion that for persons with early acquired disabilities, it is not logical that the rehabilitation process should lead back to a previous mastery. It is therefore most natural for the concept of habilitation to be used in people with this type of disability or congenital disability, and the Committee cannot agree that the concept of rehabilitation should be limited to children and young people under 18. Habilitation is a multi-disciplinary specialised service, which should not be confused with the provision of care and which cannot be characterised as special care. The Committee shares the view that there are the main instruments and arenas for social participation in the municipalities, and that, therefore, particular attention must be paid to rehabilitation in the municipalities, but also the county and state must have a comprehensive responsibility to ensure the future rehabilitation services. The social partners must also be more closely involved in the work, with the planning and implementation of rehabilitation services. An overall committee also sees the need for financial resources to be allocated to this, in such a way that the human and social benefits can be maximised. In my work as case rapporteur for this case, I have spoken to many representatives of both users, professionals, municipalities and county municipalities. I've also visited a number of rehabilitation institutions around the country, and I'm left with the impression that we have a lot of good offers that it's important to build on. When making changes, it is important that we take care of the competence and capacity of the existing rehabilitation services. It is also important that public and private services in this area should be able to complement each other in such a way as to maximise the use of capacity and competences, for the benefit of all those who rely on such services. It is therefore important that municipalities and municipalities take into account the treatment provision of private rehabilitation institutions in planning and dimensioning their own rehabilitation services. An overall committee considers that the funding mechanism to be put in place for rehabilitation must function in such a way as to stimulate rehabilitation institutions for further operations and development. My conviction is that the vast majority of rehabilitation institutions are keeping a good professional level and that we need them in the future as well. A majority of the Committee also considers that those institutions which fulfil the criteria for authorisation and which require their rehabilitation services must be authorised as soon as possible in order to make the best use of their premises, equipment and capacity. In contact with the users of the rehabilitation services, I have met several times people who say that they cannot accept the necessary rehabilitation because they do not have the money for the costs, or that they must take a shorter stay for the same reason. One woman told me that she had to have three rehabilitation stays per year. years in order to be able to function and be self-held. She could then manage well without a wheelchair, and she felt that she had a good quality of life based on her situation. But with today's peculiarities, she had no opportunity for this necessary rehabilitation. The result of the lack of rehabilitation was an ever-deteriorated physical condition, with consequent mental problems and thus a great need for help. What's worse about such a situation is that people unnecessaryly get their quality of life down, and in some cases actually a shortened life. In addition, this is a bad social economy, I would say. In today’s Norway, it should not occur that some people with health problems have to suffer unnecessarily because their own economy does not extend. This is more about public priorities. I find it strange that the Value Commission has not found it natural to put such specific matters on the agenda. But it's probably the case that disabled people are not among those who call the highest in society, but who put in line when it comes to priorities. In the Labour Party, we believe that social policy needs to be structured so that help for self-help and rehabilitation can provide a basis for better quality of life and greater participation in society. I think that the facts I have mentioned here underpin the proposal that we now need a review of the rules on self-payment, and that this must be presented to the Budget of next year. Because it's urgent to change that way. As regards Document No: 8:48, on the Haugland Rehabilitation Centre, I am pleased that the Committee has found it possible to propose that operations be ensured until the establishment's status as training institution is clarified. This centre is located in a part of the country with few rehabilitation services and has a large population base. The Centre has a high level of competence and conducts extensive research with other actors. At the same time, the Centre operates an international work of great importance, which I hope can be continued.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e774	Initially, I will be allowed to praise the case rapporteur for a very good piece of craftsmanship when it comes to the work on this message. The rapporteur has constantly ensured that the Committee has been up-to-date on the progress and content of what has been submitted by him. This has made the work of the Committee transparent and has made reasonable progress in the matter. I would like to say that much of what is mentioned in St.meld. No 21, is very good in view of the work we have ahead of us in achieving a comprehensive rehabilitation policy. But that's not all that is in this message, which is just as good. If a few want a comprehensive rehabilitation policy, it's important that you first define what this is. The most important principle is that it is always the user who needs to be put in the centre, especially if one is to get to a good rehabilitation offer adapted to the individual. It is important that a caregiver has a policy that allows as much as possible to return to a desired life situation, and work is among others. one of the many criteria to be met on the road. If you want to get the most opportunity to get back to work, it is important that you get flexible arrangements both for the employee and for any employer. On the basis of this, the Progress Party, together with the Workers' Party and the SV, has made a proposal to ask the Government to present a case to the Government on ‘a system of financial compensation to employers who employ disabled persons or persons with reduced working capacity, based on the fact that the combination of work and social security can take place down to 20 pst. disability’.» It is also important for the Progress Party in this situation to point out what the party has previously pointed out, that it is important to have a co-location of labour offices, social services and social security offices, so that a comprehensive policy can be pursued in order to get people back to work. When one sees the number of young people with disabilities who today have their way into the country's nursing home, and the offer they receive there, the Progress Party finds it necessary to point out that this is an unacceptable situation. It is therefore gratifying that the Government is now making a proposal in the context of the revised national budget for an increase of 1 million. DKK in the grant for the outsourcing of young people with disabilities from nursing homes. This is positive, and we really hope that this could lead to more people being discharged from a nursing home, because it's an unworthy life for these kids to be there. The Progress Party would point out that the use of hospitals as a rehabilitation institution in today’s situation is not relevant. As the Progress Party sees it, the number of hospitals is too low on a national basis, and the coating in the somatic hospitals consists of patients who are largely over 80 years old, who are heavily nurturing and not fit for rehabilitation. The Committee is aware that some training institutions lack recognition for part of their real capacity, while the demand for the services is very high. I can mention here an example from my own home country of More and Romsdal, the training institution of Muritunet, which does not fully exploit its capacity. Fortunately, the majority, all except the government parties, have an understanding of this situation, and these parties ask that training institutions which meet the criteria for approval and which have a demand for their rehabilitation services be approved as soon as possible so that they can make maximum use of their premises, equipment and capacity. It is important and necessary for us to be able to obtain as much as possible a longer-term offer from a training institution that we also have an interaction between private and public rehabilitation and training institutions, which is why it is important to note what is on page 9 of the call. The reason why I remember what it says is a situation that arose when we dealt with another matter in this room, which was about mammography screening and the interaction between public and private institutions. It reads as follows: ‘The Committee considers it natural that county councils and municipalities take into account the provision of treatment by training institutions in the planning and dimensioning of their own rehabilitation services, and considers it important that patients treated by private training institutions be included in county statistics on rehabilitation.’ As I said, it's important that we get an interaction between public and private institutions. The Progress Party is concerned about the large additional costs of many chronically ill and rehabilitation-dependent patients. There may be extra costs for medicines, medical consultations and various forms of health care. These costs usually exceed the level of self-interest and may amount to up to NOK 40000 per year. The Progress Party therefore proposes the introduction of a ceiling of 2 in the case of self-payment for chronically ill people. The Progress Party considers it important that the funding mechanism for training institutions be the same as that applied to public hospitals when the patient is referred from a doctor or hospital. Furthermore, the Progress Party is pleased that the outlined proposal on how to finance rehabilitation and training institutions, as set out in the Communication, has not been supported. I am very pleased with the proposal to ask the Government to present a new proposal for the financing of these institutions that will ensure future operations and good quality. The party to the progress will point out that in the counties where it is possible to purchase rehabilitation services from private centres, this should be done, as indicated. What I said earlier. It is therefore not desirable to control the economic resources through the county. In conclusion, I would like to address the minority proposals where the Progress Party stands alone or together with others, and which are reflected in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e811	Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e814	If you believe something with respect for human dignity, you have to make it possible for everyone to participate in society on the basis of their assumptions. Rehabilitation is not a concept or treatment where you expect everyone to recover. It's about helping to live with maybe great suffering, or helping to master a life that can lead to development and development. For some, being part of work or social activities is important; for others, mastering the activities of daily life can be a major goal. The needs are different. The Communication focuses on individual responses as opposed to the Disability Action Plan, where the organisation of the disability community was the main focus. I think the picture on the outside of the staging message illustrates the concept of rehabilitation well. It's like a puzzle game made up of many actors. Each piece is important, but it may have been in the wrong place because no one has looked at the whole and coordinated the picture. It has been said quite striking that much of the rehabilitation in the country is based on the so-called Doris Day method – what happens, it happens. The criticism is that it is random and fragmented. Planning has been deficient at both individual and system level. The Christian People's Party believes that many actors are important to get the puzzle in place. Cooperation between health and social services, the labour market, social security, technical status, culture, education and non-governmental organisations is important. The needs of users shall be determined by the professionals, sectors and levels of administration to be involved in each case. Individual plans become important in further work. Municipalities shall be responsible for the coordination itself. Christian People's Party supports further work on service statements. Such declarations provide users with a concrete, concise and comprehensible explanation of what can be expected from the social security system. The co-location of several agencies has shown that users save time and get a better overview by only one location to deal with. The Christian People's Party is pleased that more flexible arrangements are in place for people who are unable to work during periods of time. We support the fact that several young people with disabilities get their own housing, and do not stay in a nursing home. Technical aids are important to master everyday life and become as independent as possible. The Christian People's Party does not support the proposal that the State pays for the rental of aids to the municipalities from the Emergency Centres. The proposal is unclear and we are afraid it leads to grey areas in the offer. Only very expensive and low-frequency facilities should be available for rent free of charge. The Christian People's Party supports the proposal for a simpler and more transparent financing system for training institutions. We clearly see the need for these institutions to be integrated into county health plans and for quality to be required. The Haugland Centre is the only rehabilitation facility for cancer patients in the West. The Centre has a high professional standard, and it has an exciting collaboration with Haugland International Centres on Environment, Health and Human Rights. The centre is now in an economic downturn with an accumulated deficit of approx. $12 million. kr. The Christian People's Party seems problematic to help one institution when one knows how many others are struggling with financial problems. But there's got to be a debt cancellation. In addition, the Centre must draw up and adopt an operational plan in cooperation with the Health Region 3. Against this background, I am addressing the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party to forward the matter to the Financial Committee, so that it can be looked at in the context of the revised National Budget for this year. Our goal is to get emergency help from the center, and I have the hope that it will succeed. In the end, rehabilitation means directly translated from French ‘to restore previous dignity’. With the big message today, we have made some progress towards achieving that goal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e840	Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e843	The announcement of responsibility and mastery provides a good description of the problems, opportunities and challenges facing people with functional problems in their everyday lives. I will, like others, give tribute to the case rapporteur for a good and thorough work. The attitude of the Social Committee shows that there is a broad political consensus to bet on rehabilitation. All policies, including rehabilitation policy, must be based on respect for the individual. People with functional and chronic diseases are not a homogeneous group. They're as different as functional freshness. In this recognition, there is a major challenge. The aim must be to promote independence and participation, and to contribute to a decent life and to equal opportunities. Living with functional problems, a chronic illness or a permanent disability, affects the situation in life and living conditions in general. Rehabilitation means to regain dignity. It is to regain the meaning of life, the way back to work, to the community, to the family – despite sickness and functional problems. Being able to act on his own behalf and have faith in his own ability to make decisions is fundamental to all of us. Having sufficient competence to manage your own life so that you can experience independence, take responsibility and have sufficient freedom to make your own choices that are best for yourself is equally important. Getting sick, unemployed or disabled often leads to a negative sense of self. It may be easy to perceive yourself as involuntary, helpless and dependent. The social consequences are often withdrawal and isolation. Hopelessness and depression are often the emotional reactions to not mastering one's own life, because it's about self-respect and the experience of being respected by others. In order for people with functional problems to participate actively and improve the quality of life, and to help more people return to work, the provision of rehabilitation services must be well developed, both in municipalities and counties. But unfortunately this is not the case today. The offer is characterised by a lack of planning and coordination, unclear responsibilities and insufficient user involvement. It is an area of low status and prestige, and that is probably an important reason for the problems of recruiting enough professionals. There are considerable differences in the provision of services in municipalities in terms of dimensioning, organisation and competence. It is therefore important that regulations are drawn up that clarify the responsibilities of municipalities and that they contain concrete recommendations on how municipalities can organise this work. The offer must be comprehensive, multi-disciplinary cooperation must be provided, and not least: users must be actively involved in this work. Municipalities are at the heart of the rehabilitation work and it has to be assessed whether plans should not be required for municipalities. It must also apply to that part of the rehabilitation for which the county is responsible. Although the provision of the county health service has been strengthened in recent years, many users still do not receive an adequate range of services. Cooperation between municipalities and county health services is too random. It creates problems for the individual user and for the municipalities. Therefore, coordination of services is needed to provide a coherent chain of action. Too many young people with disabilities still live in institutions. Rehabilitation of this group must be a priority. A very important part of the rehabilitation for this group is, of course, the provision of outpatient accommodation. Granting to municipalities for relocation does not seem to be enough, although we are now pleased to have increased the grant in the revised budget. The government must also follow a lot more closely with the municipalities and ensure that this work is continued. It is a proposal from the Committee that the Government should return to the Stortinget with proposals for self-payment rules for rehabilitation outside hospitals. All must be guaranteed access to the necessary rehabilitation, irrespective of income, where they live and the disease they have. But it's not like that today. Many people do not have the opportunity to accept a rehabilitation offer, or they get it curtailed. It provides poor quality of life, and it is not a good social economy either. Training institutions are an important offer in the context of rehabilitation. The problem is that they are not coordinated with municipal and county services. This makes it difficult to make maximum use of resources. The use of the offers is often too random, and the dividends that individuals have had of a stay can be lost quickly because they are not followed up well enough when they come home. Therefore, it is important that municipalities and county councils include the training institutions in their planning. Both municipalities and county councils must also include private services in their planning and dimensioning of treatment provision. They constitute an important resource, and if they are not used, it can actually lead to the closure of a part. The Government refers in the main message to the UN standard rules and to the fact that these rules are the basis for the work on the message. In the Single European Sky Communication, rehabilitation is understood as time-limited, planned processes with clear objectives and instruments, where several actors cooperate to provide the necessary assistance to the user’s own efforts to achieve the best possible functional and mastering capacity, independence and social and societal participation. However, in the UN standard rules, there is no attempt to limit rehabilitation, either per year or per year. definition or in concrete recommendations. At this point, there was also a conflict in the preparatory work for the notification. In particular, the organisations of disabled people had strong objections both to the demarcation and to the rules that encourage countries to recognise that organisations are important actors in the formulation of disability policy. Therefore, it seems very worrying that the Government adds to an understanding of rehabilitation there is no consensus. The government’s interpretation is also contrary to the guidelines of the State Health Authority, which states that for some people the rehabilitation process will last for life, for others it is time-limited. It is important that politicians, trade unions and users have a common understanding of the implications of rehabilitation and rehabilitation. This is necessary in relation to the division of responsibilities between the different levels of government. I do not think the Government provides a definition of the concepts that ensure such a common understanding, and the majority of the Committee also believes that it is necessary to continue the work on clarifying these concepts. User involvement is a democratic right that is crucial to providing a good quality of offers. Users must participate at all levels, both as owners of their own rehabilitation process and at system level in relation to the state, county and municipality. There is a need to facilitate a good dialogue with the individual user and, as I said, they must be actively involved in the process. User organisations have a motivation, commitment and competence that is used to an excessive extent. However, although more organisations are strongly involved in the rehabilitation work, it is important to stress that it is primarily a public responsibility, as part of the overall health service. In cooperation with the user, individual rehabilitation plans must be drawn up based on the needs of the individual and on the opportunities offered by the community and user organisations must participate in the development of the municipal plans. A great deal of effort is required from all levels and from all parties involved to achieve our common goal. Right will have a health care system on patients' premises. The population shall be guaranteed, irrespective of their place of residence, a qualitatively good and equivalent offer. It shall also apply to the rehabilitation. Users will have a health care system that appears as a whole, where their needs are centered. That is why it is important for the health care system to act like that. Red Cross Haugland Rehabilitation Centre is the only training institution in Group I in Health Region 3. In this region there are 900,000 inhabitants. The Centre has a high level of professional competence, and there is a diversity of rehabilitation services. I would like to highlight in particular the comprehensive research project on the rehabilitation of women with breast cancer in cooperation with the Norwegian Cancer Association, the regional and central hospitals in the Health Region 3 and the Sunnaa Hospital. They also cooperate with Haugland International Centres based on an idea that the environment, health and human rights could be brought together in an international institution in Norway. This is important to take care of. But the centre is now struggling with major economic problems, and the situation is so serious that the operation is in danger of having to stop. The right considers this to be very unfortunate because the centre is located in a region with few offers within this type of rehabilitation. The right is therefore very pleased that there is a majority in favour of ensuring the operation of the Red Cross Haugland Rehabilitation Centre until the future status of the Centre is clarified. At the same time, I think it is important to stress that the Haugland Centre must organise operations according to its revenues, and that operations must be adapted to a group I training institution status. The condition for ensuring the operation is that creditors make a debt cancellation in respect of the accumulated deficit. It is necessary to draw up an operational plan in cooperation with health region 3 which can be recognised as the basis for future operational arrangements, even in relation to a sound economic operating situation. Finally, I would like to refer to the work done on nature, culture and health projects around the municipalities, in particular the competence centre NaKuHel in Asker. The activity is based on a holistic approach and creativity in the community. The objective is to improve health, the environment and the quality of life, especially for the sick and the insured at a reintroduction stage. There is a common arena where public agencies, businesses, non-governmental organisations and fire companies work together on a common goal. The need for such an activity is great. Many of those who use this offer are basically subusers of nature and culture, and many do not have a job to do. There is a way to pool resources to increase prevention and rehabilitation in the community. I want to ask the Minister of Health if he sees the importance and potential of the natural, cultural and health projects and the need for a centre of expertise at Sem in Asker to strengthen this work in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e892	Let me first underline that in this setting of rehabilitation policy there is, after all, a great deal of agreement on this subject. I would also like to take the opportunity to give tribute to the rapporteur for good coordination in this position. Until now, the provision of rehabilitation services has been too marked by a lack of planning and coordination, unclear responsibilities and insufficient involvement of the user himself. The purpose of the notification is to promote independence and participation, and to contribute to a decent life and equal opportunities for people with functional or chronic diseases. The Communication focuses on this with individual actions and processes, and also assesses the interface between vocational rehabilitation and medical social rehabilitation focusing on cooperation issues and offers to build bridges between these issues. It is important for one to respect human dignity, for solutions to be user-oriented, and for equivalency and accessibility to be focused, with local anchoring and cross-sectoral and multidisciplinary devices. The Committee agrees with the Government's objective of ensuring equivalent offers for all people with rehabilitation needs. We see it as important to allow for long-term and short-term action based on the individual’s needs and life situation. It should be emphasised that rehabilitation is not a purely health issue but requires, to a large extent, interdisciplinary efforts from different departments at all levels of administration. The personnel in these sectors are required to have the necessary skills, and one considers that basic knowledge needs to be enhanced in several of these professional groups. An overall committee supports the idea of having a central centre of competence for the development and dissemination of better rehabilitation skills at all levels, not least in the municipal sector. The target group for rehabilitation is all those with functional problems who need assistance to reach or maintain their optimal physical, sensory, intellectual, mental and social level of function. Rehabilitation is both about changing the individual's premise for functioning and to compensate for functional losses by facilitating technical aids and measures. The main actor in this work is the user himself. Therefore, better interaction between the user and user organisations, better cross-sectoral cooperation at municipal level and also professional cooperation between the different levels of government in our society must be ensured. It is important that user involvement is set up in such a way as to increase the user’s influence and control throughout the rehabilitation process, and it is important that individual plans are drawn up for the individual. The Government will propose that municipalities be required to establish the system of personal assistants in the same way as other social services. One also assesses to come back with regulations on rehabilitation in hospital homes, in relation to the type of functions that the nursing homes in general should have. I think it's important to remember that someone has to meet the rehabilitation tasks in a special way. An increasing proportion of the elderly in our society makes this necessary. In order to prevent the rehabilitating tasks from becoming clean after illness and injury, it is important to have good management of goods strategies. We therefore believe that local rehabilitation plans also need to include prevention programmes that target not least the elderly in municipalities. Such a plan must have several objectives, including: accident prevention and information on diet and physical training as important factors for improving health. In this work, local health centres should have a central place. There are a lot of issues that are important factors in this message. I think we've managed to achieve a good common goal for rehabilitation. But when time goes by as quickly as it does now, it's important that the government comes back, among other things. with a financial instrument and with a quality assurance for training institutions and rehabilitation institutions which make it equivalent. Especially in the case of self-payment, it's important that we get systems that create equality, not inequality, between different disease categories. Even in terms of geographical availability, we need to have a clarification. We're looking forward to the government coming back to it. With regard to the Haugland Rehabilitation Centre, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party have proposed that the matter be seen in the context of the revision of the national budget. We think it's a little strange that the majority asks the government to fix this, while all of us are concerned that we should be able to find a solution in the context of the revision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e911	Several have praised the rapporteur for the work he has done, and I will do the same. The Committee is largely grouped together on most considerations, but there are some divergent views in some of the individual issues that I would like to highlight here in particular. In a joint opinion, the Committee stresses the importance of the common concept of rehabilitation and rehabilitation among the trade unions and user groups and the importance of such a common understanding of concepts in relation to the division of responsibilities between the levels of administration in society. The majority of the Committee, of which SV is a part, does not appear to be able to define the concepts that ensure the common understanding. The majority see it as necessary to continue work on better clarification of the concepts associated with rehabilitation and rehabilitation. Further work must be done to establish a medical rehabilitation code based on a new law on specialist health services, the aim of which must be that such a regulation can help clarify the content of the concepts and require county councils to carry out their rehabilitation work. However, it should be emphasised that regulations should be made for each of the three units, child rehabilitation, adult rehabilitation and medical rehabilitation, where the concepts of rehabilitation and rehabilitation are given a concrete content, and where the services related to both medical rehabilitation, child rehabilitation and adult rehabilitation are clearly defined. For many years SV has called for the co-location of social offices, employment offices and social security offices. It is therefore gratifying that an overall committee now makes the same point. It is important to develop services within the public sector, where the user is placed in the centre. In a joint comment with the Workers' Party, SV goes on to argue for the co-location, but underlines – as opposed to the Committee majority – that this does not have to be a way of rationalising the type of service. It shall be ensured that users receive a better offer than today. That must be the overall objective. It is also necessary to facilitate the widest possible integration of disabled people into the labour market. But it also requires special measures from central governments. SV is pleased that a majority of the Committee, including SV, proposes a system of financial compensation to employers who employ disabled persons or persons with reduced working capacity up to 20 pst. disability rate. SV will further point out, together with the Committee majority, that it would be beneficial for all use of facilities to be communicated through the assistance centres. In order to avoid differences between municipalities and county councils, the majority of them propose that the provision of facilities to municipalities be provided free of charge and that the costs be fully covered by the Riksstrøgdeverket. SV will also stress the need for priority to be given to the rehabilitation of young people with disabilities and for an important part of this rehabilitation to include non-institutional housing. The daily report stated on 9 May 1999 that it is still about 700 people under the age of 50 who are waiting for emigration from an institution. It should make the need for action in this area visible, even if the figure can be discussed. In the case of Haugland Rehabilitation Centre, there is a joint proposal from the Progress Party and SV related to the rehabilitation message itself, which is being approved by the Haugland Centre for Cancer Treatment. In the SV’s view, the type of approval is important because the offer is unique in relation to the health region in which the Haugland centre is located. However, SV is also involved in a comment from the Committee majority to ensure the operation of the Haugland Centre pending a further assessment of its operation. I record that the Progress Party has a proposal linked to a ceiling 2 in connection with self-payment for chronically ill people. The SV fully agree that there should be such a thank-you, but notes that, in the context of the budget, the Committee had a majority of comments calling on the Government to come back with such a solution. If this were to be downgraded today by the fact that the Progress Party, with the support of the SV, might remain alone with its proposal, it would be an unfortunate signal. I therefore hope that the Progress Party will be able to draw up the proposal and that it will have a reference to the Committee's majority opinion on the 1999 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e933	Rehabilitation of sick and disabled people is likely to be the least-priority part of the healthcare service, with the greatest differences in quality. Research has shown that there are different diseases we live with and die of. It's the diseases we die of, we spend the most money on. Those with chronic or functional problems are lower priorities for both policy-makers and health professionals. It is therefore very good that a rehabilitation message is now coming, so that one gets focused on the problems and gets the service into a better track. One might want the message to be more specific, so that this track became clearer. We put our trust that the government's follow-up in regulations will show this. Furthermore, it is clear that the health laws we have adopted this spring will be of great importance for this patient group; both in terms of the requirement to make individual plans, the obligation to cooperate with each other at a cross-border level, and in terms of more committed cooperation between the professional groups, which are very important for the patient group we are talking about. Similarly, the free choice of treatment services will be a good one. There have been discussions during the process of the notification on the concepts of rehabilitation and rehabilitation. The left agrees with the Committee that the most important thing is that the services are organised in such a way that patients’ needs are met, regardless of the age group they belong to, and in such a way that the resources available to them are used in the best possible way, i.e. the coordination of services. It is also true that children and young people with Revmatical Disorders are subject to a good habilitation offer. It is gratifying that an interministerial group has been set up to look at the circumstances of particularly resource-intensive patients. It's very demeaning for these to be throwing balls in the system and unwanted by most organizations. In the future, specialised services and skills bases will be developed as part of the regional health service. We can agree to this. In this work, the good offers built up in different places in the country must be taken into account. To date, there has been very uneven use and geographical distribution of training institutions. Upland has most institutions and patients, while Rogaland is without organisations and has almost no patients. In its 1998 report, the State Consultant points out that institutions are to some extent in need of recreation, rest and care, i.e.: the location of patients who have not had the opportunity to take care of their dependants or local care services. Patients who were to be rehabilitated back to work have been granted the exceptions. Nevertheless, there is a great deal of popularism that has paid for it. It is important that it is organised in this context and that more stringent professional requirements are imposed on institutions. The Left agrees with the Committee that a classification system and grouping of cost groups may be of interest. In this way, all types of rehabilitation and training institutions may be considered. However, it must be stressed that the professional content must be focused. On the left, the Government supports the need for a new funding mechanism for the institutions. The system must ensure the provision of patients through good and forward-looking operation and organisation. The provision must be based on the needs of both primary and specialist health services.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e950	The Stortinget today deals with the wholesale communication on Norwegian rehabilitation policy. The Workers' Party will stress the importance of reaching a broad consensus in the Social Committee on ensuring equivalent offers for people in need of rehabilitation due to disability or chronic illness. Today’s rehabilitation services are characterised by lack of coordination, unclear responsibilities and low user involvement. With the treatment, there is now hope for more effective and systematic rehabilitation work on the premises of users. For example, the Social Committee points out: that the co-location of social, labour and social services in municipalities can contribute to better coordination of actions targeted at individual users. Rehabilitation is not just a health issue; it requires interdisciplinary efforts from several agencies at all levels of government. The main arena is the municipalities, but also the counties and the state must have a comprehensive responsibility for the total rehabilitation work. The Social Committee has also entrusted the Government with the task of presenting proposals for financing arrangements to ensure the future operation of training and rehabilitation institutions. These constitute a good and comprehensive offer for the whole population and must be ensured in the future through a satisfactory and not a worse funding mechanism than today. It is not appropriate to weaken the basis for profitable operations for the many training institutions that have gained significant competence and experience in helping different patient groups. Ensuring adequate resources for health, care, care and rehabilitation is a demanding task for governments and large-scale development. However, I would warn against making rehabilitation a balancing item. Recovering brilliance and rebuilding strength by disease and stress is of great importance to the quality and functioning of the individual. For society too, rehabilitation is a good investment. Qualitative good practice after, for example: operations or accidents may mean the difference between a continuing active professional life and a dissatisfaction, or the difference between being self-responsive in everyday life and becoming totally intrusive. I would also like to point out that large groups of chroniclers and disabled people can function much better in their everyday lives if they can get new energy through an institution training and treatment system. I see it as very important that particularly women with diffuse and complex disorders are taken seriously by our healthcare system, and are guaranteed rehabilitation services. Then it is important that the self-payment rates also be adapted to people who have little to walk with. Like the rapporteur, I find it strange that these questions are not an important matter for the Government's Value Commission. In this context, the Government is required to propose new rules for self-payment. I would like to make it clear that access to necessary rehabilitation is very important for people with chronic disorders and their families, and must not be restricted by poor private economy. It is clearly perceived as unfair that persons with one type of disease are almost exempted from self-employment, while persons with more debilitating diseases are burdened with a large proportion. In the view of the Workers' Party, it is therefore necessary to establish rules on the prob lems of rehabilitation outside hospitals — fair and non-discriminatory prob lems that do not deter people with legitimate needs from such offers. I would also like to stress that representatives of user organisations need to be consulted on the design of the new self-payment rules. Ensuring qualitatively good supply and developing additional competences across a broad range is a challenge. I want to ask the government in particular to assess good recruitment measures, so that younger professionals will want to get into this important field of work. If the recruitment work is to succeed, rehabilitation must be given higher status, and I would like to ask the Minister of Health to comment on how he can contribute to this. Finally, I would like to endorse the broad majority comment on the importance of the horse and the dance for a good life. I can also add that literature, nature and culture are important to the good life, and then the music according to Martin Luther is given to people to comfort in life. And last but not least, chiropractors and manual therapists are of great help to the hundreds of thousands of people who are struggling with muscle and skeletal disorders. No professionals, as I know them, are more concerned about motivating their patients to quickly get into activity. In addition to their high special skills in the field, they are making a great effort for humans themselves to trigger the building forces in themselves, through a life of motion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e985	First, I would like to draw proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, which is on page 16 of the setting. In my opinion, the rehabilitation message and the current attitude to it provide a good situational description of the state of the day in terms of rehabilitation at all levels of administration. The Progress Party agrees to give priority to rehabilitation in municipalities, but will question whether the administrative bureaucracy to which it is added makes sense. I think here, among other things. on the establishment of rehabilitation coordinators in the municipalities, which, of course, should also have their small secretariat. A co-location of the social, social and labour market seat, I believe, will far on the way to making this superfluous with coordinating positions. The Progress Party believes that the municipalities in which private rehabilitation services are provided should use them rather than that the municipalities commit themselves to building their own actions – this, of course, subject to good quality and competitive price. The Progress Party would like to stress the Committee's statement on cancer and the need for follow-up and rehabilitation for this large group. Here the Montebello Centre has shown its way, and there is a great need for more similar schemes. The diagnosis of cancer is not only a major mental impact for the cancer, but also for the closest relatives. It is important for these patients and their families to avoid isolation and passivity. As far as rehabilitation at county level is concerned, it is important, in my opinion, that county councils take advantage of the private offerings made by the training institutions and are not tempted to build their own rehabilitation departments themselves, at the reasonable price that has now been paid for it. The Ministry should also bear in mind when assessing further the new form of funding for training institutions, that there is a degree of similarity in the financing of private and public rehabilitation services. A unanimous committee rejects the Ministry's proposal for a new funding scheme for training institutions, which I believe would have led to the closure of many of these institutions. The Progress Party believes that there is now an urgent need for assessment and harmonisation of the proportions of our training institutions and that the proportions are contingent on the nature of the suffering and the need for rehabilitation. Unfortunately, this is not the case today in the case of rehabilitation at our various training institutions, where the self-payment may vary from 200 to up to 300 kroner per person. Today, something that most of the people who need rehabilitation today, do not have the power to pay. The Progress Party also considers that a harmonisation of self-payment in respect of travel abroad and treatment in Norwegian rehabilitation institutions should be sought in the context of the assessment of the probabilities. I also remind you of the Storting's previous decision to consider a ceiling of 2 in terms of excesses in general. One currently has two approved health sports centres with its own special state funding. At least two centres are now waiting for such approval for funding, namely the Haugland Centre in Sogn and Fjordane and Sävarhagen centre in Stord. It is important that one treats these centres equally if the offers are broadly the same, and this should now be done by the department. As regards Document No: 8:48 for 1998-99 on additional appropriations for the Haugland Centre for 1999, the Progress Party supports this. Our reason for supporting additional funding this year, which is unusual, is precisely a desire to maintain the cancer rehabilitation that is the only provision in the West. However, I will not fail to say that this is a special treatment of the Haugland Centre in relation to other training institutions with equal financial problems, but these do not have prominent central politicians to go into this house on their own. It is important that, in this context, the Stortinge give a clear signal to the Haugland Centre that, as long as they have the status of training institution Group I, the Centre must, pending a new status, bring its operations into line with the economic realities prevailing. One cannot expect the Haugland Centre to receive special treatment in the future in relation to the other training institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1011	In this case, the Storting has received the first proposal for a comprehensive policy and a more targeted national strategy for rehabilitation. The proposals contained in the Communication are based on targets and values that are very important to this Government. Firstly, respect for the individual and the goal of a worthy life must permeate the offer. If the individual undergoing rehabilitation is not self-determined by his/her working life and takes part in his/her future, the offer may be difficult to contribute to the objectives of greater social participation and self-esteem. User involvement shall be strengthened in a more systematic way than in the past, through legal instruments, guidance and the development of new tools. Here we need a cultural revolution in health and social services as a whole, and I think it's already going on. Secondly, the rehabilitation offer is fragmented and fragmented today. Users meet different levels of responsibility, personnel groups and departments and have to deal with very different sectoral instruments. Better provision will be made for the supply to be made in the most systematic, planned and comprehensive manner possible. I am therefore very pleased that the Stortinget recently agreed to oblige the local and county health service to draw up individual plans for people who need long-term and coordinated offers. Fragmented knowledge and a different understanding of the field between professional groups shall also meet with a more targeted focus on increased skills and knowledge development. In such a strategy, actions involving a common knowledge platform and common understanding will make a very important contribution to meeting users more fully. Thirdly, the provision shall be made as far as possible locally, where users live and live. The contribution of the health service, both at municipal and county level, will be clarified more clearly, both in order to provide specific services and to provide a clear and firm body to which both users and personnel can access. In this work, the municipality shall be the coordinating body. We also want to balance geographical differences and oblige municipalities and county councils that have so far taken too lightly on these tasks through new rules of law. The largest possible local anchoring has been supported in principle in the committee setting, but it is thought that once again there is the institutional sector and central centres for different target groups that have received the most attention. Fourth, both rehabilitation and prevention depend to a large extent on solutions outside the remit of healthcare. The possibilities of mastering and doing the best out of a life of chronic disease or disability can often be realized only when other institutions take real responsibility. Local responsibility includes not only primary health services, but also, to a large extent, other local authorities and local authorities. Fifth, better cooperation between health care levels and provision at county, regional and national level should be supported and followed up by local services. Quality of life, self-confidence, personal integrity and identity are best served by the most familiar environment of the individual. In addition, if local authorities do not follow up on the responsibility when others release, the impact of more advanced offers may be compounded. I am very pleased that the big message on most points has support in Stortinget. I interpret the cross-political consensus that characterises a large part of the Committee's position as a clear signal that this area should be given priority. The follow-up to the proposed measures must become a matter of priority in the coming years. In the Committee's configuration, the government is asked to submit a new proposal for a financing mechanism to our 40 training institutions. The government has seen and will continue to see it as central to facilitating closer cooperation between public health services and institutions. I am pleased that the Committee agrees with this in its position. When Stortinget asks for a proposal for a new financing scheme, I interpret it as not the premise behind the sketch that the Stortinget is critical of, but the desire for a financing system that ensures the future operation and good quality of institutions. This has also been my intention, and I will come back to Stortinget with a final proposal. The authorisation system for institutions must be seen in the context of the financial instrument. Therefore, changes in the status of existing institutions, extensions of institutions and approval of new institutions will have to wait for a new funding system to be in place. This will be prioritised. The majority asks the Government to come back with proposals for self-payment rules for rehabilitation outside hospitals. I have also called for harmonisation in the communication. I consider it appropriate to see this in conjunction with the assessment of any self-interest 2 for chronically ill and disabled persons in addition to what is covered by the free card scheme, as the Stortinget has previously requested. Since these issues are complex and the Storting also wants external participants to be involved in the evaluations, an overall approach could only be presented after the State budget for 2000. However, I would like to give the Stortinget an initial assessment and feedback in the budget proposal for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1034	I want to spend my time on Document No. 8:48. The background for the proposed document is to maintain operations at Haugland Rehabilitation Centre. Today, the West has very few, if anything, corresponding rehabilitation centres in the region, covering 900,000 inhabitants. Haugland Rehabilitation Centre specializes in cancer, heart and pain conditions, and has developed a special competence here, a competence that has resulted in both the Norwegian Association for Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, the Regional Health Selection in Region 3 and the Trade Council for Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation in Region Vest major an upgrade and reclassification to a health sports centre in line with the Beitostølen and Valnesfjord health sports centre. I am therefore pleased that a joint social committee has stated that, on the basis of the fact that the centre is located in an area with a large population where such services do not exist, it finds it reasonable that such status is assessed by the Government. I am pleased with this comment from the Committee, and I expect that it will be decisive for the future status of the institution. As the Committee also points out, the institution has developed a high level of professional competence and staffing is very stable. This is important to take care of, and it would not be easy to build up the corresponding competence if the centre had to close down due to economic circumstances. Haugland Rehabilitation Centres, together with most of the corresponding institutions in the country, operate with low curfew rates, high cost of interest and high growth in wage expenditure. The Committee has pointed out that the Centre has developed a high level of operational debt and needs to adapt it to the income base. To say that Haugland Rehabilitation Centre starts with an operating debt of 7.3 million. with a view to poor ignition of clay scaffolds and a planned public reception of asylum. If we look at the equity from 1995 to 1998, it has changed from 5.2 million. SEK to 7.5 million. kr, i.e. an increase of 2.3 million. SEK 1,7 million. kr is interest expenditure. This means that operations have gone under in the years 1995 to 1998 of NOK 614 000. That's not what I call irresponsible operations, as I saw the head of the social committee say to the Firda magazine. It tells me that it was and is good economic governance based on the statements I have already mentioned. In addition, we have an institution that has a highly qualified supply, and which also has the power to detonate new borders before researching the rehabilitation of women with breast cancer – a research project in collaboration with the Norwegian Cancer Association, regional and central hospitals in health region 3 and Sunnaas Hospital, a project that was mentioned in World Gang on Saturday 15 May as a unique research project. There is currently no follow-up to the 20 000 cancers detected. After radiation treatment and cell toxicity therapy, the health care provider says thank you. At that time, Health-Norway cannot afford to let such institutions go down because of too low reimbursement in the curfew rate relative to the health supply being provided. Haugland Rehabilitation Centre is unique in a different context, and it is the physical connection it has to Red Cross's Nordic United World College, which teaches 200 students from all over the world the good idea that the environment, health and human rights are important for a good society both nationally and internationally. The institutions are currently cooperating through the joint operating and development company Haugland International Centres. In the past, the size has placed great emphasis on cooperation between these institutions in the context of a common objective of emphasising humanitarian work and the right to a good environment and health. This cooperation I see I can continue, with the background that the Labour Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party are asking the Government to ensure the operation of the Haugland Rehabilitation Centre. This solid majority sees that operating costs are covered by cap. 2711 item 75, which is an estimate item, and will at the same time strengthen the same item by 1.5 million. kr in the revised 1999 national budget. On behalf of all those who work for a good health supply throughout the country, I take it as a self-evident thing that the government strengthens the offer to give the centre that status in the future that it will consume. The requirements of the Committee on Indebtedness, I know that I will be taken up by the owner, and Sogn and Fjordane County will take the initiative to develop an operational plan in cooperation with Health Region 3.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1062	Much of the welfare policy cannot be realised through a sluggish sector perspective. In the main message, Responsibility and Meistering, the Government has provided a new understanding of rehabilitation. Medical rehabilitation is only part of a more extensive rehabilitation activity. Getting chronically ill and disabled out of isolation and into the community arenas, for example. in education and work, is a task for health services, but not just for them. Social rehabilitation is an important aspect of the user’s ability to maximise participation in society. The government has as its goal the individual in the center. It also implies that the rehabilitation process must be the user's own process. The care of the user's values, his or her hopes and wishes must guide what services are inserted. Often the same users need assistance from municipalities, the social security and labour market services and other local authorities. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, together with other departments, will actively facilitate local development of cooperation and coordination. Together with the Ministry of Labour and Administration, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health will facilitate the development of cross-sectional motivational and chiseling measures that can build bridges between treatment and rehabilitation. I will take the initiative to ensure that different departments harmonise their respective governance signals through different key documents and forums in a better way than at present. The government will also examine in greater detail whether, through the special legislation, a person can better manage the individual professional body to cooperate with bodies in other sectors of the individual user. Cross-retardant forums at the leader level are important. It is a hub for the coordination of actions of common user groups. I want to work for these forums to be created in more municipalities than is the case today. The Minister of Health will see to it that the local health service takes a greater part. Voluntary organisations, not least their own organisations, can also play an important role in local cooperation. Many people of working age are totally or partly out of work because of health problems or social problems — for periods or on a permanent basis. Follow-up work shall be more targeted and adapted to the individual at risk of remaining in a sustainable social security situation. I have placed great emphasis on measures to reduce sick leave, including: through the establishment of an idea bank for the good examples from the enterprises. Let me also underline the system of active health care, which can help to ensure that more people have the opportunity to maintain their relationship with the world of work – even in a situation of illness. It is with pleasure that I can see that it has been an increase in the number of active sick messages as long as this government has had the power, but it is still a great potential for improvement. I have noticed that a number in the Committee have made proposals that offer greater flexibility in coordinating work and social security. Many disability pensioners have a residual working capacity that they can use in paid work. According to the rules of the day, there is a condition to receive a disability pension that employment benefits are reduced by at least 50 pst. After one year, disability pensions may escalate to work and receive disability pensions as low as 20 pst. The system has been of little use and is probably also little known. The Government will assess, in the main message on living conditions, measures that can contribute to greater flexibility in the disability pension scheme. In the case of persons with varying performances who usually do not fulfil the conditions for disability pension, the Government in the Equalisation message will assess direct salary supplements of a more permanent nature for employers. Technical aids are too many very important to solve practical problems. They are crucial for many people with disabilities to master more with their own help. A challenge in the future will be to allow the dissemination of tools to become a more integrated part of the rehabilitation process for which the municipality is responsible. A number of members of the Committee are asked by the Government to submit proposals for a system of State funding for the provision of assistance from the Emergency Centres. I want to follow up on the decision to deal with the practical and economic aspects for the first time. I have noticed that the Storting, like the Government, is occupied by a more holistic hearing care. The review of the disability action plan is well under way. A working group, including user organisations, will present the status and outline of solutions for a more holistic hearing-impaired service before the end of the year. When it comes to getting young people with disabilities out of the institution, I'll come back to it in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1086	Like several, I want to commend the rapporteur for a thorough and good job. I am pleased that the setting focuses so strongly on user involvement. It is very important, as user involvement in rehabilitation needs to be extended from user orientation and user perspectives to include forms of involvement that maximise user influence and control over the rehabilitation process. The user himself is the main actor in a rehabilitation process. Rehabilitation at local level must be a planned and coordinated process with the user in the centre. The Committee has gone so far in its work that it believes that rehabilitation must be established as a separate entity in the municipalities and that municipalities should appoint their own coordinator for rehabilitation, with the weight and capacity to carry out this important work. In the years ahead, there will be a special need to meet the rehabilitation tasks of the growing proportion of the elderly in our society. It is important to have a good lead var-strategy. Prevention programmes targeting the older population must therefore be part of the local rehabilitation plans. The plan must aim at accident prevention and information on diet and physical training as important factors for better health. Local health centres must have a central place in this work, and the co-location of social, social and labour offices will help to facilitate treatment. It is important that the social partners participate in the planning and implementation of rehabilitation services, so that workers with the ability to create or recover parts of their working capacity are given the opportunity to return to an active life through training and participation in a social network. I am also pleased that a number of committees have made a concrete proposal asking the Government to present a case on a system of financial compensation to employers who employ disabled persons or persons with reduced working capacity, based on the fact that the combination of work and social security can be reduced to 20 pst. disability rate. Today it's known as 50 pst. The Social Committee has not acceded to the Government’s proposal for a financial instrument. We believe that the financial instrument to be put in place should be as bureaucratic and complicated as possible, so that the public contribution is used in the best possible way for users. The Social Committee is also committed to providing us with a financing mechanism that ensures the economy of the training and rehabilitation institutions, as these are an important part of the rehabilitation service. The Committee shall have, inter alia: asked for the involvement of user organisations and representatives of training and rehabilitation institutions in the development of new guidelines for this financial instrument. I hope the Council of State will ensure that the above-mentioned representatives of user organisations and institutions come from different types of training and rehabilitation institutions. I am pleased that the Committee states that access to necessary rehabilitation should be ensured for all, irrespective of income, residence and disease category. The National Association of Heart and Pulmonary Diseases – LHLs – clinic in Nittedal, Glittruitlinikken, is given a positive review in the setting. The competence of the clinic is at the forefront of international competence and the Committee considers that it is necessary to consider developing the Glithrlinics of a national centre of competence for lung rehabilitation. The LHL, in cooperation with the municipality of Røro, has investigated the possibility of establishing a regional/national centre of competence for heart rehabilitation. I am pleased that the Committee is asking for this measure to be assessed with a view to a reimbursement scheme similar to that applied to the Glitra lineikken. Sunnaa Hospital is one of the leading medical rehabilitation centres in the country. The hospital has developed a high level of competence in follow-up conditions and sensitised after polymyelitis. I hope the Council of State will help Sunnaas Hospital to become a centre of competence in this area for health regions 1 and 2. Fortunately, although we have eradicated polymyelitis in Norway, I hope that we will not forget those who were given poliomyelitis in the past and who face great challenges in their everyday lives. Opportunity for participation in employment improves the quality of life of the person concerned, and society benefits from the possibility for people of working age to have a job, where possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1118	The Social Committee was in Italy in 1998 to study the offers developed there in psychiatry. There we met a man who had been on asylum for 30 years. When asylum was closed and the man got a bobble in a book-collective in the district, it turned out that he had a large amount of money in save retirement in the bank. He bought himself a horse for the money, and it got standing in a stable near the book collection he now lived in. He was there every day and stewed this horse, and he worked to teach children to ride. The one who owned the stable was very pleased with him, and he had got an improved quality of life. I came to think of him when a couple of us were at the Gaustad Hospital at a conference a few days ago, and Professor Nils Retterstøl told about the development of riding therapy for the patients there over 25 years, and about the cooperation with the Lions club that had gotten horses all these years. The hospital itself did not have the finances for this. We also heard about the Growth Hall, the learning arena for drug users, and the use of horses in this therapy. We caught some of them during their training by horse, and got to see how positive this is. The medicine's father, Hippocrates, believed that the doctor's task to a large extent was to support nature's self-righteousness, and said that riding is like medicine for body and soul. This is just one of many physical, mental and social health services that are preventive, rehabilitating and habilitating and that have produced good results. In this context, the Committee has also mentioned dance therapy and health dance. A majority of the Committee, all without the Advance Party, considers that it is appropriate to consider whether such measures can be incorporated into a comprehensive rehabilitation and rehabilitation offer. Cooperation with non-governmental organisations such as: The Lions club has made such offers possible. Training institutions are a very important part of the overall rehabilitation offer that needs to be in place to provide users with the services they require. It is natural that municipalities and county councils take into account the treatment services available at these institutions in planning and dimensioning their own rehabilitation services. Many patients have suffering that does not justify full coverage from popular concern, and many of them have major problems in paying for the excess in a cure. It's too many a defeat as well as not being healthy to have to seek help from the social office for this. It is also important for training institutions to have a simple and transparent financial instrument. Both user organisations and institutions should be involved in the development of new guidelines for the financial instrument. It is important that a system is now in place to ensure the future operation and quality of these institutions. For individuals, it is important to ensure access to the necessary rehabilitation irrespective of income, residence and disease category. Self-payment rules need to be reviewed with a view to allowing people to be rehabilitated back to work and their own income. Assistance for self-help and rehabilitation shall provide a basis for work and self-sufficiency for the greatest possible extent. Early follow-up with individual implementation plans is a key instrument to bring people back to work, family and social life, so that quality of life is good.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1146	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1149	Rehabilitation is self-realisation and, in this context, it is important to take into account disabled people under the age of 67 who live in old-age or infirm homes who want to live on their own. In this context, there is reason to point out that the Government has done a great deal to enable this to be done now in the context of the proposals contained in the revised national budget. Among other things, the amount charged to municipalities that provide individual housing for such persons is raised by NOK 400 000, from NOK 600 000 to NOK 1 000 000. At the same time, there is also a proposal under the revised national budget to co-finance or top finance particularly resource-intensive operations for people with high needs for care. This together would allow a person to move out younger people living in an old-age or infirmary. As far as the training institutions are concerned, I would like to add a few more comments to them. We have approx. 40 approved training institutions in the country, which constitute a good and comprehensive provision of rehabilitation for the population. We believe that this is an important part of the overall rehabilitation offer that needs to be in place to provide users with the services they require. And rehabilitation and rehabilitation institutions must be part of a comprehensive treatment chain in our healthcare system. There is also a strong need to link training and rehabilitation institutions’ services and competences closer to the individual user’s response chain. We believe that the county councils and municipalities must take these institutions into account in the treatment they provide to their inhabitants, and plan the dimensioning and planning of their own rehabilitation services based on this, so that these private institutions can also be an offer in its entirety. We also believe that there is a need for statistics on which people are also treated by private institutions, so that we have a transparent system. In terms of funding, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party say that it is essential that we have a referral and funding system that takes care of the interests and needs of patients who come both from the primary health service and from the specialist health service. We need a funding mechanism now that is new and that can ensure the provision of patients while at the same time getting a better and more transparent system. As far as self-payment is concerned, it is clear that it must be harmonised – and that is what we and the Government agree on. We therefore ask for it to come back with a legislation ensuring access to necessary rehabilitation and rehabilitation, irrespective of income, residence and disease category. I would also like to mention that it is desirable for us at Glitra Clinic to have a national competence centre for pulmonary habilitation. It is desirable that we have a comprehensive hearing care that can be provided through an established centre of excellence centrally, with regional consultants. At the same time, I would also like to remind you that Sunnaas Hospital should be maintained as a national centre of competence.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1165	A few words about Innst. S. No 210 at the bottom of this debate: Let me first express my joy at the fact that the bulk of the population gives Haugland Rehabilitation Centres the recognition that the setting in terms of comments and recommendations together constitutes. As co-rapporteur for the proposal in Document No. 8:48. I have noticed, of course, that the government parties are concerned about the lack of breadth of the case and possible future precedent in similar matters. Furthermore, it is not possible to disagree with the Committee in its clear opinion that it must be organised in the economy, related to the operational plan that can be accepted by the Health Region 3. Having said that, I would like to point out that the starting point for Document No. The 8 proposal and the setting in fact are that Haugland has acted as a half-price institution, because of a lack of status. Therefore, the status of the organised economy requested by the Committee has improved in the future. Document No The 8 proposal was therefore a necessary fire-fighting measure to have something to build on in this area. This became more important to us than the formal requirements of the government parties for the proceedings. A large majority of the Committee has also underlined the value of cooperation with Haugland International Centres AS and the interdependence between these institutions, which has been mentioned earlier in the debate. In fact, it is possible to rewrite interdependence in this case to be synergistic, and it is good policy to take care of such synergies. I note that the committee points out that the Haugland Rehabilitation Centre is located in an area with few rehabilitation facilities and a large population. The Committee therefore considers that the status of this centre should be assessed, i.e. a better status than has previously been the case. It's this formulation that almost a million people in this part of the country are attaching hope and trust to. It is this assessment that the management of the institutions attach hope and trust, and it is this assessment that the highly competent staff have confidence in can also give them a future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1178	From my point of view in the Committee on Transport, I often come into contact with many unhappy people who have suffered road damage. It is a reality that too many young people get their lives completely changed, often physically, but of course not least mentally. I would like to pay tribute to the committee which has referred to the Sunnaas Hospital and the Cato Centre. This is a hospital with experts in the rehabilitation of traffic damage. Now the first department of the Cato Centre is located in the East. Several county councils are buying services from the Cato Centre, and by self-esteem I have seen many people who had initially given up, lost their lives and entered heavy depressions, getting help at the Cato Centre. After a time of treatment, help and care, these people are helped to regain the spark of life. Helping a person who is completely changed in everyday life takes time. I therefore hope that the Cato Centre in Son will have the opportunity to grow, so that more people will receive qualified help. In particular, it is important to support the whole of such treatment. When one family member is hit, the whole family is hit. At the Cato Center, they are very competent in the treatment of the whole, where families are also drawn. I hope that the Cato Center will now be approved, so that even more people get help there. The authorisation must be valid in terms of content, needs and geographical location. If the Council of State hasn't been to the Cato Centre, I recommend it because I know that many young people get their lives back out there.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1189	I am busy that young people with physical disabilities get their own housing outside the institution, and I am happy to receive support from Stortinget in that work. In the years 1996-98, the special incentive scheme was used for the relocation of 186 persons. A study that I myself took initiative in the fall shows that it per year. On 1 January 1999, 156 people under the age of 50 wanted to move out. For the government, it is absolutely central that we reach this goal for everyone who wants it, by 2005. That is why, in the context of the revised national budget, we propose to increase the contribution to the municipalities from NOK 600 000 to SEK 1 million. DKK over three years for those who receive their first leave in the year and next year. In the following year, new relocations will be caught up in the new add-on scheme for special resource-required users, as described in the municipal economic proposal. The proposal also provides guidance services to the county councillors who administer the system of redundancy. It will enhance the competence of local authorities in the issue of relocation and support it under one of the main objectives of this message, with the greatest possible responsibility at local level. And I'll also include something more when it comes to technical aids. Because I think it is important to stress that the waiting time for help today is in many cases too long. It shall be shortened and children and young people shall be given special priority in this work. To the proposal to finance the provision of assistance from the emergency centres covered by the Swedish National Agency for Social Security: I see it as no longer a distinction for funding aid, between temporary and permanent needs. I therefore believe that it is necessary – I believe that the Stortinget is also necessary – to sort out the practical and economic aspects of this and come back to Stortinget with it. Finally, there is a need for a discussion of the role of hospitals in the future. And then let me report that there has been a work on it, which is due to be done early in the fall, and which will form the basis for a discussion of the future role of hospitals in the care 2000 Storing Message.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1200	Ola Glötvold has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1203	I have some comments on this Document No. The 8th proposal. The representative, Hoddevik, said that the centre parties had pointed out that there was a lack of width in the case manufacture, and we are not, in fact, alone about that. The Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party have also joined such an assessment. We think it's wrong to just go in with a grant for this year without looking at the accumulated deficit, which, according to our information, is about $12 million. kr. It has to do something to enable this institution to move forward. We agree with the synergies between the rehabilitation centre and the Haugland International Centres. We also see Haugland Rehabilitation Centres as very important where it is, among other things. with this cancer function as it does. But that must be sound management. And I also don't think that the Right neither in position nor in the opposition wants such a case to create precedent, so that we will receive individual case treatment in Stortinget. There are other training institutions that are also struggling with their economy. The Haugland Centre is in a special position in many ways, but we cannot have such proceedings for the future. And that's why we've suggested that this ordinary must be incorporated into the treatment of the revised national budget, and that's what you see as a very special matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1212	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three. [[Fotation, see page 3764]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1226	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 25 minutes, the Progress Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Socialist Left 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes and the Twist People's Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1233	The present setting is the result of the Committee's examination of Document No. 8:34, the proposal of Asmund Kristoffersen, Gunhild Islanden and Eirin Fallet. The proposal covers the following aspects: The reference requirement of a doctor to a chiropractor falls away.Kiropractor is given the opportunity to report his patients for a shorter period of time.Kiropractor is given the opportunity to refer to a specialist under specified conditions.Kiropractor is given the opportunity to request physical treatment. Furthermore, the proposal states that a testing scheme may be established by an agreement between the Rikstrøgdeverket and the Norwegian Kiropraktor Association, based on a specified number of treatments for each State. Each chiropractor forming part of such a contractual relationship shall be entitled to withdraw reimbursement from the public interest within a fixed amount per. calendar year. The scheme is assumed to have a probationary period of two years. The proposal was forwarded to the Minister for Health for an opinion, and the Minister for Health states in his reply to the Committee dated 17 March 1999 among others. the following: ‘The Ministry considers that there may be grounds for testing a limited testing scheme with the lifting of the referral requirement from a doctor to a chiropractor. Such a system must be subject to a systematic evaluation. Before such a trial can possibly start, a knowledge base is assumed on the current situation of patients treated in chiropractors’ – for example, knowledge of diagnosis, medical messages and treatment outcomes of patients treated by chiropractors – both ‘those referred by a doctor and those seeking chiropractors on their own initiative. Such knowledge seems to be deficient today. The prerequisites for a test scheme must be in place before any test can be started.» Furthermore, the Minister for Health stated in that letter to the Committee: ‘I am prepared to consider a pilot scheme when such a knowledge base exists. I would therefore like to take the initiative in an investigation work such as: provides answers to the conditions I have pointed out in the preceding paragraph.’» The Committee is divided in the present position, with a majority consisting of the Labour Party and the Right in general supporting the proposals in Document No. 8:34, while a minority consisting of the government parties, the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party support paragraph 1 of Document No. 8:34, i.e. an experimental system for the waiver of referral to chiropractor for a period of two years for a certain number of counties. Both the majority and the minority have included physiotherapists specialising in manual therapy as being equivalent to chiropractors in relation to failure to provide referral. The majority state as the main reason for the proposal that chiropractor has official authorisation and that they are responsible for investigation, diagnostics and treatment whether the patient is referred from a doctor or not. The majority further states that the chiropractor is subject to the health care requirements of the Health Care Act for authorised health professionals, with the requirements that this entails also for this health care professional group. Furthermore, the majority of doctors in primary health care are lacking, and significant savings in health care by avoiding the diversion of general practitioners. The minority points out, among other things: the following to points 2, 3 and 4: The minority consider that the changes proposed in the document are very extensive and the proposals violate important administrative principles in relation to health care, social security and overall patient care. Like the Minister of Health, the minority would like to have a larger and more thorough investigation into the issues raised in Document No. 8:34. The minority also raises the question of removing the referral obligation of a medical specialist and, among other things, mentions it. in its observations: ‘These members will therefore also ask the Ministry to consider the consequences of any removal of the referral requirement from the general practitioner to the specialist and to provide an assessment of any savings in the event of a reduced burden on the general medical service in the event of such a solution.’;» The Progress Party agrees that the chiropractors as a profession represent a significant competence in back and joint disorders that should be better exploited, and we in the Progress Party are very disappointed that Norwegian doctors so little refer patients with back disorders to chiropractors. We do not ignore the fact that this lack of interest on the part of doctors in using chiropractor is conditional on the professional problem. The party of progress considers it particularly important that patients treated by non-medical practitioners have been examined in advance by a doctor so that any reference to a chiropractor or physiotherapist has a medically sound professional anchorage. This is in the interests of quality assurance for the patient. It is indicated in Document No. 8:34 that a person may save a billion in sick pay by allowing a chiropractor to report disease. This is due to the fact that the number of days of illness experience is shorter in chiropractors than in general practitioners. The Progress Party questions the amount of savings specified, which is not documented in the proposal. Sykmeld also has an administrative relationship, among others. to the social security system and to the reintroduction device, and in the opinion of the Progress Party, it would be very complicated for more than one occupational group to be able to report patients. I think it is right to clarify in this context that not all symptoms from the back and hip region are necessarily due to skeletal and muscular disorders, but may be symptoms of a serious disorder that only physicians are able to solve. In my opinion, it should also be in the interests of the chiropractors that the patients had been examined on their first visit and had been diagnosed with medicines. I think it is very bold of the majority on the basis of a single document No. 8-proposals to address such radical changes in disease reporting practices and referral practices without prior careful investigation of the issue and without any impact assessment. Finally, I take up the minority proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1285	The representative John I. Alvheim has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1288	The Norwegian health system faces major challenges in the years to come, including: a. according to the following conditions: Health care needs are increasing.There is a lack of health professionals, including some of them. 800 unaccompanied medical services.The allocations for health purposes will hardly capture the growing need alone.More and more knowledgeable and informed patients will require a high quality of healthcare and thus greater requirements for well-qualified health workers. The lack of medical care can only be partially compensated by a high level of education and continued use of foreign doctors. I feel quite certain that there will be no financial room to meet the growing need for healthcare with corresponding increased appropriations. I believe that this need must equally be met by a more targeted and effective use of different health professionals. In a more systematic way than we have done so far, we need to carry out a thorough analysis of the extent to which we use our health professionals optimally, both in a professional and socio-economic context. In this context, it will be necessary to assess whether the working distribution between health groups is always non-profit-making. These include: in this context, the Workers' Party has promoted the proposal to initiate an experiment in which chiropractors are given extended responsibilities and powers in relation to the patient group already using chiropractors. In addition, physiotherapists with further training in manual therapy shall also participate in a test scheme in line with the chiropractors. This attempt over two years means: that the referral requirement of a doctor to a chiropractor and a manual therapist falls away from the fact that chiropractor and a manual therapist are given the opportunity to sicken their patients for a shorter period of time that a chiropractor and a manual therapist may refer to the specialist under specified conditions that a chiropractor and a manual therapist is given the opportunity to seek physical treatment, which will in practice apply to the chiropractors, since the manual therapists have the physical therapy competence in their basic training. I assume that the trial should consider whether manual therapists should also be allowed to refer patients to CT x-rays and bone x-rays. The criticisms of these test procedures have partly argued that chiropractor treatment was not available today. In fact, the chiropractors have 1,350,000 patient contacts per person. years, ranging between 60,000 and 70,000 chiropractor patients with a history of learning and between 160,000 and 170,000 patients entering the chiropractor without going to the doctor. The size of the population has recently adopted a new health professionals’ law, which includes chiropractors and physiotherapists together with a number of other health professionals, including health professionals. doctors, in the form of a law, have received confirmation of their authorization. This also means that they have a legal requirement of soundness for their business which requires them to treat only the patients they have the competence to care for. Nor is there anything to suggest that today’s practice deviates from this very fundamental principle. It is therefore, of course, and inevitable, as the Minister of Health said in a letter to the Committee: «The requirement of safety also follows the requirement to recognise their limitations in professional qualifications and to understand when better qualified personnel should investigate and, where appropriate, treat patients.» I also find in the light of the arguments I have against carrying out such an experiment, the reason why I stress that the chiropractors are now also responsible for investigation, diagnostics and treatment, whether the patients are referred from a doctor or not. When the legislation in force provides that guidance is required in order to trigger social security suspension, it has reason to believe that the primary physician should have the overall and coordinating responsibility for the most complete diagnosis and possible treatment of the patients. This proposal does not go along with this principle. In the fixed medical system, the patient will eventually have a closer relationship with his doctor, which in my opinion will mean that the patient can more easily consult his doctor on treatment arrangements, if he finds this desirable, and thus receive guidance. I would otherwise assume that in the trial scheme it may be appropriate to make a premise that the chiropractor and the manual therapist report to the patient’s doctor about patients who had to be sick or have to be referred to. This will give the primary physician a full overview of the patient’s status. I also have to be able to express the expectation that the different groups of health personnel with whom the same patient had to come in contact, now, according to the patient's best, seems to be working together. I've heard of too many very unfortunate and completely unacceptable examples of the opposite. In fact, I believe that the new system of testing can inspire necessary and appropriate cooperation. Back disorders to which this proposal relates may often have a complex and not unambiguous cause and effect. This means that both in diagnosis and treatment contexts must be willing to use the tipping skills of different health professionals. Based on the figures provided by the National Health Authority Guidebook 7-95 ‘Wood in the back — what are we doing’, muscle and skeletal disorders cost society between 10 and 15 billion dollars a year, an amount related to treatment costs, health benefits, social security benefits and production losses. Although in Norway the total number of sick leave costs for persons with back disease is not available, the above booklet makes reference to the fact that about half of the total number of persons with back disease is not available. 12 pst. of all sick leave in Sweden due to backache. There is hardly any reason to believe that there should be major differences between Norway and Sweden. In that case, our medical expenses for people with back problems amount to more than NOK 2 billion. The cost of chiropractor treatment to the public is about annual. Ten million. NOK, and if you think that anyone who now goes to a chiropractor without a lecture guide would get a social security refund, this would mean approx. Forty million. kr in a People's Security Fusion. It is obvious that only for some of the patients with backaches, chiropractor treatment will be the right thing to do. But it seems obvious that for the many who will get health benefits through chiropractor or manual therapist, this could also save public expenditure. But the important thing is, of course, that the patient can receive treatment in a timely manner and thus reduce the risk of prolonged or chronic suffering. There is well documented evidence that late treatment increases the risk of permanent and chronic suffering. One of the main reasons behind the proposal is that using the health professionals with the most specialised competence in the treatment of back disease will save the use of scarce medical resources. There is also good reason to remember that one will also save the patient for promiscuity by being able to get treatment, possibly medical treatment, and in some cases referral further without going the way of a doctor. I also think there may be reason to mention the fact that very many patients believe they benefit from, among other things. chiropractor therapy. This is best illustrated by the influx of patients, for whom I have mentioned figures before. Some have asked questions about whether this would still be a costly scheme for the public. I would then refer to the premise contained in the proposal for an agreement between the Rikstrøgdeverket and the professional professional groups on a specified number of applications per. years. This means that a person is given the right to withdraw reimbursement from popular security within a fixed amount per. years. In this way, public governance has full control of the annual costs. This proposal corresponds to a model used in some countries in Sweden. Summaries I'd like to say: The patient can get a significantly easier and faster time through a more effective organised treatment system and reduce their costs and reduce sick leave.The apartment is given time from unnecessary duplication of work. Public expenditure is reduced by reducing sick pay and reducing the costs of medical visits. The chiropractor and the manual therapist will be able to use their skills and streamline their services to patients and develop cooperation with other health professionals. I look forward to two exciting years of experimentation and would suggest that in the group that – of course – should consider all aspects of the experiment, there are also representatives of the two associations involved in the trial project. It's just through such a wide-ranging trial project that we can test whether this is the way to go with all the four components that have been put into the experiment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1380	The majority have said on several occasions that one will improve the supply of patients with often painful musculoskeletal disorders. Back plagues hit a lot of people. According to the Journal of the Norwegian Medical Association No. 14 for this year, about half of the adult Norwegian population has a shorter or longer period of cross back pain in one year. Of the social security budget for 1996, one sees that various back disorders cost DKK 3.1 billion. The number of new unemployees due to back problems was 3,600, i.e. ten per. a day for one year. A large majority of long-term sick messages are due to these plagues. Many patients are referred from a doctor to a chiropractor or physiotherapist with further training in manual therapy. Patients can now apply directly to these occupational groups for examination and treatment. In such cases, those who provide treatment are not allowed to withdraw reimbursement from popular security. In Document No: The 8 proposal calls for the referral of doctors to chiropractors to be waived, so that chiropractors can benefit from popular protection, as is the case in most European countries today. It is claimed that the scheme will be simpler and cheaper for both patients and communities. An overall social committee agrees that one should try out such a scheme for two years. It is also agreed that the scheme must include physiotherapists with further training in manual therapy. The Christian People's Party is pleased that this group is not being discriminated against. The Association of Norwegian Physiotherapists has arranged such further education for over 40 years, and physiotherapists with exams in manual therapy have had their own fare since 1960. The Christian People's Party looks forward to an evaluation, where one particularly looks at the possibilities of reducing the cost of sick pay over shorter periods of sick pay. The proposal that chiropractors and physiotherapists with advanced manual therapy should be given the opportunity to report their patients for a shorter period of time cannot support the Christian People's Party. We believe that it is unfortunate that more than one occupational group should be allowed access to health care for the same type of illness. It may give rise to unclear responsibilities. We also think that the timing is bad, as we are in the process of introducing a fixed medical system. It is precisely based on the principle that the primary physician should be the coordinating point. The doctor has the best competence to assess the patient in an overall context. In order to be able to report disease, one must have a knowledge of social security medicine, and close follow-up of patients is important. The Christian People's Party cannot see that the chiropractors and physiotherapists have such knowledge today. I assume that a dispensation must be sought from the public, which today only gives the doctor the right to report patients. The proposal that chiropractors and physiotherapists with advanced manual therapy should be able to refer to a specialist is also not supported. Isn't the Workers' Party and the Right concerned that this could lead to further increase in the waiting time for specialist health care assessment? An important factor is also that chiropractors are educated abroad and have no practice or rotational services in hospitals. They therefore have limited knowledge of Norwegian specialist healthcare. Finally, I would like to clarify that both physiotherapists and chiropractors have a high level of professional competence. Together with other occupational groups, they should be involved in interdisciplinary research into the treatment arrangements appropriate to different back and joint disorders – for the benefit of the patient.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1406	Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders continue to be the most important health concern. It's actually one of our big public diseases. About 20 pst. of the working-age population, such plagues are present. Each year has over 50 pst. medical messages have been justified by these diagnostics. The causes of the suffering are complex, and it is enough that this is part of the drug where there is considerable uncertainty about causality, diagnostics and treatment. However, this also opens up the possibility of a diversity of professionals with different approaches and treatment philosophy. The total cost to society is estimated at DKK 10-15 billion in the case of health care notifications, and this is mostly related to the costs of treatment, health care, social security benefits and production losses. We know that much of the reason for the treatment queues in health care is lack of staff, poor organisation and that professionals spend their time and capacity on things other than what they are trained for and can best do. There is insufficient cooperation between the different disciplines and insufficient coordination of total resources. And it's not possible for us to allow ourselves out of these problems. But the different professional resources need to be exploited better. There is, as many people have experienced, a lack of doctors in primary health care, and by releasing medical resources, more patients can get help. It will provide a better and more accessible offer also for patients with muscle and back disorders. We have to wipe out new thinking and find new solutions. Thirsty, the representative called Alvheim this proposal. Yes, a little more daring in several areas of healthcare, not least in exploiting all the professional skills available, had really been in place. I would like to be more bold in the choice of instruments if it can provide more patients with good and fast treatment. Chiropractors are the professional group with the most specialised competence in muscle and skeletal disorders. Today, patients have to be referred from a doctor to get the reimbursement from the social security. This is considered unnecessary use of resources and of patients' time and poor use of professional competence. The proposers indicate that it can be saved over DKK 1 billion. in health care costs if the patient could seek out the chiropractor directly without going to the doctor. This is money that could have been used to treat many of the 280,000 patients who are still in treatment queues. Not least, it means a lot to the individual patient to get better and get back to work. There are good reasons to try out new schemes, including: by disregarding the referral requirement of doctors to chiropractors, as has been done in Sweden and Denmark. The chiropractors have their official authorisation with their own responsibility for processing. They are responsible for investigations, diagnostics and treatment in the same way as doctors, whether the patients are referred from a doctor or visiting chiropractor directly. The requirement of safety follows a requirement for health professionals to recognise their limitations in professional qualifications and to understand when better qualified personnel should investigate and, where appropriate, treat patients. This also applies to chiropractors. There are also good reasons for carrying out a test scheme in which chiropractors are given the opportunity to report patients for a limited period of time, to refer directly to the specialist under certain conditions and to obtain the opportunity to request physical treatment. The right considers that the same should apply to physiotherapists with special training in manual therapy. Further training for physiotherapists can be equated with the training of a chiropractor. In addition, the physiotherapist has an all-round professional starting point for the study and treatment of patients. I am not aware of any professional justification or evidence that physiotherapists with advanced manual therapy are unable to participate in such a pilot project in line with chiropractors. Given the increasing number of patients and increasing costs, it is against the background that all available professional competences should be used to the best possible extent. Therefore, the Right considers that chiropractors and physiotherapists with continuing training must participate in the test project on equal terms. Reference from physiotherapist to specialist must also be able to include skeletal X-ray and CT X-ray as it is for chiropractors. We believe that such a comprehensive testing scheme over two years with subsequent evaluation will provide a good basis for assessing the usefulness of such a scheme. In such an evaluation group, I think it is important that both physiotherapists and chiropractors are involved. I have noticed that the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party, the Center Party and SV see it as appropriate that the referral from doctor to chiropractor and physiotherapist falls away, and that is good. But I have also noticed that with regard to the possibility of ill-treatment, refer to the specialist and the opportunity to request physical treatment, these parties will await an investigation by the Minister of Health before taking their position. But there's something here that amazes me. In their comments, they're actually saying something different. They've already taken a stand. They say that they do not see it as appropriate that the right to report disease spread to several disciplines, on the grounds that the disease picture is complex, including for patients with muscle and skeletal disorders. They point to the need to ensure that patients have the coordinating responsibility – referred here to the fixed medical system – and that they should be the primary physician. They also say that it is a problem that asylum applications are currently being issued by practitioners who will not be able to discharge their full responsibilities. The Minister of Health said the same in his letter to the Committee. Then my question is, what are they going to do with an investigation, other than to train the case? Right is dedicated to acting instead of investigating. And now we have to act on behalf of the patients. Therefore, we are pleased to be able to contribute to the majority of such a probationary system for both chiropractors and physiotherapists. It is only through such a pilot project that it is possible to find answers as to whether such a scheme can improve the situation of patients and be economically viable for society. We see the possibilities and not the constraints, as I think the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party, SV and the Center Party do.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1434	It has been said many times that you should focus the patient and the patient first. This case also applies to the patient, and not least to the patient group that was involved in the previous discussion, namely those with musculoskeletal disorders. The previous speaker also said in the context that there are often complex causes of these disorders, and that's some of our starting point when we say that you have to go a little bit more carefully here. The representative from the Right also said that she saw no restrictions, but only opportunities. We also believe that we need to see far. It may be Right that medically and medically look rather cleverly at the issue. We believe that it is a broader assessment that needs to be done, among other things. to be able to report disease, to refer to a specialist and also to request physical treatment. It may be that, with that right, it is important that there is a health assessment at the bottom of the medical profession. Now when we cancel this right, at least we have to think about it a little bit before we take the other steps forward. We are also involved in saying that the referral requirement from a doctor to a chiropractor and a physiotherapist with further training in manual therapy should be eliminated during this trial period. It is right to say that a trial plan is timely, all the time we know that the referral and reimbursement scheme has worked for 20 years without the scheme being evaluated. But then there's a question of whether to go further, at least in this game. We have not prejudged this or today decided what to do, but we refer to the Minister of Health letter of 17 March, where he says something about a trial project and that there has to be an investigation at the bottom of this. I'm a little surprised that the Workers' Party is going so 100 pst. in respect of this scheme. The fact that the Health Policy of the Workers’ Party – one can believe what one wants about both the health policy of one party and the other – has been marked by control, overview, cleanliness and a system that should be controlled and coordinated is at least certain. Now some of it is left for the benefit of the entire register of relatively unreserved testing schemes. I think that the overall medical assessment should be at the bottom and therefore also the medical quality assurance. Then we'll see what the investigative work of the Minister of Health leads to when it comes to going further. I am also a little surprised that the Right is going this way, those who talk so much about quality assurance, who also very often refer to professional responsibility and say that you should have overview and control, cf. inter alia: the issue of school and education in Oslo by day.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1447	I want to start by saying that I agree with almost all of the considerations that Ola D brought, so I don't have to repeat so many of them. SV has co-operated with the Workers' Party to be a driver for the implementation of the fixed medical system just to get a clean-up and a mentoring function linked to patients further in the system. I have to say that I am very surprised that the Workers' Party is now making this proposal, which in many ways violates the whole intention of the permanent scheme, and I think very much of the text in the proposal bears the impression that it is little thought, and that it is little professional evidence for what it says there. I also registered Sonja Sjølis' objections to the fact that the minority is not willing to enter the trial. As far as I can see, even in relation to the minority, there are few counter-conceptions, as far as I can see, also in the trade unions, against the fact that the referral requirement from the doctor to the chiropractor falls away as an experimental scheme. It might be useful to look at those experiences. It is also thought-provoking that such a large proportion is for the treatment of chiropractors without prior referral. So you hardly have anything to lose on. The fact that a chiropractor can refer to a physiotherapist does not work incontrovertibly and must be able to test. On the other hand, there is a point related to the increase in health care costs that you have had, that you have an operational system related to quality assurance for health care services. It has a large number of times repeatedly underlined, and then you move away from it by making the system both unwieldy and relatively difficult to control for the Rikstrøgdewerk. I registered with interest that the proposer Asmund Kristoffersen in an interview with the evening post on questions about how long he thought short-term searches were, replied that at least there must be no more than eight weeks. Based on my background as an advisory doctor for the Rikstrøgdeverket, I feel that a medical report of eight weeks in no way is a brief medical report. It is the case that a search report II must then be written, give a detailed account to the National Social Security Office, perhaps meet in a basic meeting and explain what other measures are being taken, in this case for patients with muscle and skeletal disorders, where the doctor should now be able to make visible a width of the approach that one should now expect the chiropractor to be able to do. It seems very little thoughtful. Then you're going to open up for referral to a specialist. The constant expectation of the specialist is that blood samples should have been taken from patients. It shall be determined in the light of Revmatic Diseases. Reference shall be made to the presence of tumours in the spinal canal as an alternative to it, for example. is a slicing. Does it mean, then, that you have to open the door for chiropractors to start taking blood samples as well? In that case, if chiropractors do not want to do so, do you think that they should request the tests in the doctor's office, and that the doctor should sit there as a passive spectator, even if he has quite different professional views on them? Is it thought that this should improve professional cooperation? The question I'm asking myself is, have you ever thought about it? The answer given by the proposer to the Evening Post suggests that even the most basic parts of this proposal have no basic ideas. This is particularly true in relation to the length of the alert. It is obvious that at the moment you move beyond the 16-day period, you are beginning to have a need for documentation with the social security office. The social security office will expect someone to take responsibility for this medical report, possibly also in cooperation with the employer, and this leads to a completely different arena from the one in which the chiropractors usually operate. I would say that it would be banal if the anticonceptions against this one and only were to be justified in that the doctor should have a kind of authority that one should not give to others. The point is that we have to ensure that this is the responsibility. In fact, you have to point out that you are responsible – are you thinking about the options? Have you spoken to the employer to ensure a follow-up here, perhaps with a faster return to work? The fact that this is also thought to be cost-effective is quite illusory. This is how the Medical Association in its response to this proposal, after talking to those who have carried out the experiment, completely rejects the fact that there were at all differences between the two control groups. Nor have the proposers. It is stated that in the survey from Norway referred to in Document No. The 8-proposal, there was no difference in the overall disease response time of the patient groups that made direct contact with chiropractors, compared to those referred from primary doctors. So this will make the proposers a cost saving of NOK 1 billion. Obviously, if you operate with these kind of fictitious numbers and are able to take down the most incredible sizes from a shinny sky, you'll be able to get to most of it in Health-Norway. But that's not how Health Norway works.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1464	The President is in doubt about describing the proposals and opinions of others, which are banal within what can be called acceptable parliamentary language. With that comment, the President will pass the word on to Eirin Fallet.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1468	I got a little confused. Who was talking right now? Was it the politician Ballo, who sometimes sparkles with care for the patients, or was it the doctor Ballo? I have to say that I got a little confused about that. As one of the proposers, I am pleased that the majority of the Social Committee is in favour of a system that will simplify and allow treatment for many people suffering from musculoskeletal disorders. They won't have to go canoeing from one doctor to another to find someone who will send them to chiropractor. There has been a system of referrals for 24 years. Published studies show that this scheme has never worked. The requirement for such an assessment by the Minister of Health and the minority is therefore unnecessary. There has been ample evidence of such an assessment by the health authorities for the long time that has passed. This is also referred to by the majority of the Committee. The training of chiropractors makes them the most highly specialised profession in musculoskeletal and skeletal disorders, as the majority of the Committee decides. It is now time that our health care system provided such a resource to work. Most of the patients of the chiropractors use the chiropractor as primary contact. That chiropractor training gives such qualifications, there is absolutely no doubt today. This proposal will safeguard patients’ rights and ensure that the chiropractor complies with the requirements of safety, precisely by allowing the chiropractor to cooperate with the other authorised health services. The proposal will ensure better multi-disciplinary cooperation. Many doctors will be pleased with the relief the proposed scheme provides for. The uncertainty surrounding the existing referral mechanism will disappear and a better professional cooperation climate will probably arise. The minority of the Social Committee also supports the removal of referral from a doctor to a chiropractor. However, the minority of health ministers support the fact that an investigation should be carried out on the other proposals on the right of requisition to physiotherapist, limited health care and the right to referral to a specialist. This is justified by the desire for a more comprehensive overview of the function and importance of the chiropractor for the development of existing legislation for these functions. I disagree with this view. The chiropractors have a five-year education that makes them fit to use existing healthcare services for the benefit of their patients and society. In addition, they have a one-year tour service where training in existing legislation on social security should be self-evident and fully possible. The minority wants in connection with the Innst. S. No 202 also look at the reference legislation for other more specialised occupational groups. In my view, this is a far more complicated legislation, with other consequences, and should therefore not be directly linked to the proposal presented. – President! I wonder if I don't have a speaking time of 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1489	According to the list of speakers, the representative has a speaking time of 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1492	I got a message in 10 minutes. We'll see how this works. In that case, I have to go up one more time. Inner. S. No 202 is a carefully investigated setting for the chiropractors. It is therefore with some amazement that I see that the entire committee wants to include the manual physiotherapists in this proposal without explaining the background of this profession, but only refers to the fact that their form of treatment is close to that of the chiropractors. The Social Committee, regardless of the proposal itself, has decided to include manual physiotherapists in its position, and then we'll see a little bit of it today. Manual physiotherapists do not have exactly the same education, not training in line with chiropractors and cannot practice as primary contacts. But I take it as a matter of course that there will be a need to adapt supplementary education to this group, so that they come up at the same level of education as the chiropractors. The chiropractors already practice primary contact for their patients. Physiotherapists have so far had no reason to do this. In my opinion, the great responsibility of such a function will justify the investigation by the Ministry of Health in line with what the Minister of Health proposes. It is therefore my proposal that the Storting should follow the majority position of the Social Committee with regard to the chiropractors. However, I personally appreciated the fact that the Stortinget had come back to the question after an investigation has been submitted on the practice of manual physiotherapists, the importance of the new scheme in relation to the other 5,000 physiotherapists, and whether education and background make them professionally fit to act as primary contacts. However, I am pleased today that it is now established that the chiropractors are an important part of our overall health care system – not least in the interests of patients. Finally, there is reason to stress the importance of enhancing the competence of the State Health Authority in the field of chiropractic. Such a enhancement of competence will contribute to better cooperation between chiropractors and other authorised health professionals. If there's something we can't afford, it's the professional struggle in the Norwegian health system. It is too scarce resources, and we sincerely hope that there will be a cooperation we are now adopting, an acceptance by the chiropractors of the Norwegian health care system. And I'm a little disappointed in the doctor Ballo.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1511	The President hopes that there were no problems for the representative Fallen that there was some confusion about speaking time. The president received a signal during the representative's speech from the head of the social fraction in the Workers' Party that the representative has a speaking time of 10 minutes, and added 5 minutes. But on the president's list, it's five minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1514	The majority of the Committee approves a two-year review procedure whereby: The requirement for referral from a doctor to a chiropractor should be allowed to sicken his patients for a shorter period of chiropractor to refer to a specialist on defined conditions of chiropractor to obtain physical treatment. The testing scheme shall also apply to physiotherapists with continuing training in manual therapy after the majority voting. In my letter to the Committee of 17 March 1999, I concluded by proposing that a more defined experimental system be introduced in this round where the referral requirement from a doctor to a chiropractor falls away. The main reason for not accepting the other proposals was that chiropractor activities are a specialised service and that chiropractors through education and tour services do not have the necessary level of qualification and knowledge of the specialist health service. Furthermore, I suggested in the letter that an investigation had to be carried out prior to this experiment in order to provide a basis for knowledge of the current situation with regard to the patients treated in chiropractors. This will include, inter alia: knowledge of diagnostics, medical messages and treatment outcomes, both for those referred to by a doctor and for those seeking chiropractors on their own. The majority of the Committee considers it appropriate to have a more comprehensive testing scheme and proposes that this study be conducted in parallel with the implementation of the experiment. The majority is also set to carefully evaluate all sides of the experiment. This means that the experiment must be carefully planned and that the evaluation must be based on the situation before the experiment starts, as a basis for comparison. There will therefore be a need to monitor, inter alia: the diagnosis and treatment outcomes of the patients treated by chiropractor before the start of the test. The same will apply to patients treated by physiotherapists with advanced manual therapy. The Ministry has contacted the State Health Inspectorate to get proposals for organising a possible monitoring of the activities of chiropractors. Health surveillance has reported that such work, involving the development of a knowledge base, requires research competence in clinical research and healthcare research. With regard to the proposal that the pilot scheme should also apply to physiotherapists with advanced manual therapy, I note that the overall committee considers it appropriate to include this group in the experiment. However, I would like to point out to the minority that other, more specialised occupational groups could also find it useful to promote similar requirements. I share this concern with the minority. The same applies to the assessment in relation to the follow-up of the sick subject, to which I think the representative, Mr Ballo, made an insight. I have noticed that the majority believe it is necessary to define the financial framework under which the experiment is to be conducted. Reference is made here to the possibility of establishing the test sample by means of an agreement between the Rikstrygdenverket and the Norwegian Kiropraktor Association. A two-year trial for chiropractors and physiotherapists with advanced manual therapy will require extensive preparation and feasibility studies for the evaluation. I will come back with a proposal for this in a later case to Stortinget. The initiation of the experiment shall be subject to budgetary decisions. I will come back to that in budgetary terms. Let me conclude by saying that I fully share the proposal that the Faldet's intention is that the professional struggle that sometimes takes place in our healthcare system is undesirable and unacceptable. But I must be allowed to say that I think the tracks of professional struggle are relatively clear in the matter we are dealing with here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1554	Like several other speakers here today, I would like to stress the need for a healthcare professional to be used in a targeted and effective way. It will serve the individual, who can get early help and thus become faster healthy. People with musculoskeletal disorders are pain patients, and probably one must have experienced such suffering even to understand how difficult it is to wait a long time to get adequate help. Both chiropractors and manual therapists have a special competence in muscle and skeletal disorders. My experience is that most doctors lack such a point competence. I also want to stress that no other professionals, as I know them, are more concerned with motivating their patients to get into business quickly. In addition to their high level of competence in the field, these groups are making a great effort for humans themselves to trigger the building forces in themselves through a life of motion. Of course, the health requirement should apply, as today, as it is quite normal for patients to go directly to chiropractors because too few doctors refer to chiropractors. The increase in sick pay and early disability is largely due to muscle and skeletal disorders. This patient group now needs to be taken seriously in order to ensure the quality of life of this patient group and because of the large savings potential of the public that this group can get proper help early. I assume that the trial will be put to work without unnecessary delay and that representatives of the trade unions concerned will be involved in the evaluation of the trial. And with the refusal and resistance that you have registered from different teams – even against a probationary system during continuous evaluation – the majority of the Stortinge will follow closely whether the decision of the Stortinge is followed up and put into action in an efficient and good way, without unnecessary training. I will finally warn the Council of State against following the minority, as one might get the impression of his posts.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1572	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1575	We as proposers were given the characteristic of the representative Ballo that our proposal was a ‘small thought’ proposal. If my thoughts are unclear, I can't judge that for myself. But what I can say is that over the course of my six years at Stortinget, I have rarely worked so hard on any proposal, along with others, as I have done with this proposal. This concerns both my colleagues in Stortinget and various health professionals and patient groups. When it comes to the question of sick leave and how long these groups will have the opportunity to get sick, I have previously indicated that they need to find their solution through the pilot scheme. I would like to stress that I never do any kind of proceedings either through one or the other newspaper, or other media. So the fact that a newspaper must have given me opinions that I don't have, gets to account for the newspaper. In the case of the health requirement, all health professionals’ groups defined under the Health Personnel Act who have received an authorisation are responsible for such liability. This applies to doctors as well as chiropractors, manual therapists and others. I also quoted what the Minister of Health had said in his letter to the Committee on what is in good faith. I also expressed that I fully share his views, and I repeat it now as well. I have reason to believe, on the basis of practice, that that view is also shared by the two groups that are now supposed to have extended the opportunity to treat patients, with the rights that that gives. I have to say to the representative Ballo: he did an unfathomable and unexpected downgrading of several health professionals. I do not understand how the representative of Ballo can help propose that the referral requirement should fall away when, in such a regime, he actually traces the patient's total destruction.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1591	I am pleased with this proposal, and quite sure that the testing scheme will show that patients receive faster treatment and shorter sick leave when they have conditions that can be treated in chiropractors and can get there quickly. I have sailed to experience this with getting treatment for hurting my back immediately. My company has an occupational doctor who referred me to the day, I got an X-ray and treatment the next day at a chiropractor. Four days I was home. Then I got work done in the company. In the event of a relapse a few years later, I received treatment immediately, and was ill-reported only a few days. Without easy access to a company doctor who had agreed to get prompt treatment for the company's employees at chiropractor, it could have been time before I received treatment, which would have prolonged the suffering. I am startled by Alvheim and especially by Ballo here today, wondering if their position is thought through – and with consideration for the patient. I am convinced that this trial system, which allows the patient to seek treatment with chiropractor without referral from a doctor, which allows chiropractors to report short-term disease and to refer to a specialist and to request physical treatment, is sound. Kiropractors have good competence and do not treat them without having taken the X-ray and without them believing that it is professionally sound. Sometimes they send the patient back to the doctor, because they think physiotherapy will be a better treatment. Today, when they do not have the opportunity to seek physical treatment, this prolongs the waiting time for treatment for the patient, and the waiting time may be painful and prolong the disease. For my own person, I can say that if I had not had the opportunity to receive prompt treatment by having access to a occupational doctor who referred me at a speedy pace to a chiropractor, I would have been sick of the suffering for at least two, three painful months. I am therefore pleased that it is a majority to go further with this proposal, a majority who puts the patient in the centre.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1602	The Kristoffersen must have heard something from another side than from me. I have not predicted the downfall of any patient groups. But what I underlined, and I would like to stress again, is that you need to have a health care system that is built up in a way that makes resources use appropriate, and that you have guides in relation to the different patient groups. It is clear that there is no problem here from the pulpit to come up with various proposals that can be heard very offensively – I hope it is not an unparliamentary expression – but that one must think through the consequences of, and that is what I point out. I believe that with the development of health money expenditure that many have warned against, you need to have different bodies that assess the alternatives to health care, such as the return to work or active health care, which was mentioned by the Minister of Social Affairs earlier today – a set of instruments. What strikes me is that there is a complexity associated with morbidity that requires competence. It's not about degrading neither chiropractors nor physiotherapists. I am convinced that there is a professional group you need, just as you need different other professional groups today. But what I have also experienced as a young general practice and a tourist is getting referrals from the hospital, because they say that this is too bad, here you should do in general practice they and those investigations in advance before you refer to it. It is a major problem today with the use of resources related to hospitals, that some references could have been received where work could have been done instead, for example. of the primary health service. That's why I'm really just arguing about what I thought the Workers' Party was also concerned with arguing about when you went into the fixed medical system, that you use resources at the least effective level of care, and that you don't refer people higher in a system or spend more resources on it than what's necessary. The removal of the referral requirement means that chiropractors must take much more responsibility even in relation to the treatment they are doing, without being linked to a responsibility for the non-treatment. I think that makes sense. I find it interesting that some studies show that the form of treatment can have adverse effects, just as it can do in general practice or by specialists in orthopaedic or neurosurgery, but where responsibility is now linked to professionals who have not completed the treatment. There have been legal proceedings relating to this, in which the referring body has to take responsibility. I think that this is a good thing, but then it has to be a responsibility. There is also a need for a significant switch to be followed by other bodies on the part of the National Agency for the Evaluation of Diseases. I do not see in the proposal that it is thought out. I have pointed that out, and I still stand by that. That doesn't mean you don't care about patients, on the contrary. I hope you can have a healthcare system in which patients can easily find out, and where you have services that have a complete responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1616	The proposals in Document No. 8:34 for 1998-99 is claimed to lead to a reduction in expenditure and to a reduction in sick leave. It has been mentioned that the health care days prior to initiation of treatment in chiropractors are 22.9 in the case of patients with a history of traineeships, while similar figures in patients taking direct contact are 8.5 health care days. It just shows that it takes longer to get to the chiropractor via a doctor than directly to the chiropractor, and I don't think it's very eye-catching, not even interesting. But based on this, there's a saving of over $1 billion in sick pay, and it's more problematic. Like the representative of Ballo, I have been informed that the total health care period for the two groups in this study was the same, whether they were referred through a doctor or came directly to a chiropractor. It's the total search period that matters financially. Nevertheless, representatives Kristoffersen and Eyeågen continue to assert this alleged savings effect. The representative, Kristoffersen, says that very many patients believe that they benefit from chiropractor treatment, and there is no doubt about it, but whether a person will receive reduced costs and reduced health care is somewhat more doubtful. Leadership articles in two of the world’s most recognized medical journals evaluated chiropractic in 1998 and conclude that it is uncertain whether chiropractic does more good than damage to cross back pain. A literature study presented at the annual meeting of the Norwegian Association for Back Research this year concludes that there is no documented effect of manipulation or training therapy in the acute phase of back pain. Based on seven studies, the effect of training therapy on pain and function in chronic back pain was clearly demonstrated, but not on sick leave. Manipulation was found to have an insecure effect in chronic pain compared to placebo. I also think it is important to clarify that chiropractic can lead to significant medical complications. I can't see that we really have the primary basis for going into Document No. The 8th proposal, a clearly documented effect on sick leave in the treatment of these conditions. If the proposers have this documentation, they have certainly not made it available to us. I think we should build on such evidence, and not on personal trusts from staging representatives or others.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1625	The representative Eyeågen found it necessary to warn the Council of State against training and against following the minority in this case. I have to ask back: what is the basis for such a warning? I have explained in my paper how I will follow up on the majority today, how I will facilitate the necessary trial plan and how I will get back to Stortinget with a trial plan and with the necessary budgetary implications in budgetary terms. There should be no doubt that I take note of this matter today and will follow it up. I am a little surprised that it would be necessary to ask that kind of question. What I allowed was to express a concern that other more specialised professional groups could find it useful to promote similar demands. It must be allowed to express such concern, which has also been voiced by the minority, in particular when the concern is also shared by one of the proposers, who have today called into question the extension – to which the whole Committee has agreed – of a new group in addition to the chiropractors. That's an expression that there's actually a pressure towards including more. That the concern is justified, I will insist, but I think it is possible to impose this in a sensible way, as the majority puts it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1634	Once again, I have to make a visit to Ballo. There is no reason to believe that patients are not allowed to keep in good contact with a regular doctor. This should, of course, be intensified and provide even better opportunities. So Ballo talked about the lowest level of care. Yes, exactly! It's often the chiropractors that are the first contact, and that's the opportunity we now give patients. It's also important in the case of back disorders, that people come to treatment quickly, and that's what we're trying to do. In fact, this can be absolutely crucial for further development. You talk about documentation all the time. No one questions about evidence of the work of the general practitioner in the case of back disease? There are actually several of us who do. So all this fear from the games Ballo and Næss: I don't share this concern. I trust that the chiropractors are a serious, hard-working profession that will do the best for patients. And so many questions are being asked. Yes, but dear friends, that's the ones we're going to get answers to; this is a test project, and then we'll see how it works. I fully agree with Sonja Sjøli when she says, "Let's see the possibilities of helping patients." That is the concern of the proposers, and that is what is important. And I'm not afraid that it won't be full to do to the future also for the Norwegian medical profession.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1651	Asmund Kristoffersen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1654	I have to stress what I have said to the urgent point of medical attention and, as others have also said, that if the chiropractors and the manual therapists are in doubt about the basis of the medical report, I assume, of course, that within the care requirements they have for their business, the patient will continue to show – primarily to the primary physician – for a closer assessment, and that the patient will then receive his medical report there if he is to have it. This I think is quite obvious, and I have no reason to believe anything else. So now we're going to try to find out if this is still going to be practice, and I can't understand that we're going to reject a trial until one has actually tried out in controlled forms, as far as we've infiltrated it, a system that might be in the best interests of patients. It's not without reason that a lot of people have applied for this treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1659	I have to say that I am pleased with the clarification that the Minister of Health made, that it is the proposal of the majority of the population, the vote, which is to be followed, and not the minority. That is what democracy is, and democracy is also that it is the elected assembly that rules, not the medical profession. I also think it is absolutely necessary to clarify that. I think of the double role that two members of the Social Committee play here, both as politicians and doctors. I would also like to say in all modesty that we have some experience, including we who have been patients and have had contact with the different professional groups for many years. I think the doctor will benefit from showing some respect for patients' experiences, too, for what they experience. I might mention, as an example, that the alternative to a chiropractor treatment for very many patients is very often that the doctors prescribe strong, painkilling tablets in large doses, which may also have significant side effects, and which one is recommended to go on for several months. I have personal experience.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1666	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3765]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1683	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3765]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1699	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3765]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1716	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3766]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1730	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 55 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 20 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be no replications after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1737	Parliamentary representative Fridtjof Frank Gundersen has in Document No. 8:22 presented the following proposal: ‘The Government asks the Government to authorise other than Arcus to make and re-distill spirits.’ As you know, the Stortinget decided on 30 November 1998 to privatise Arcus AS with subsidiaries. The representatives of the Workers' Party and SV voted against privatising Arcus with subsidiaries. The question of what to do with the production monopoly, the monopoly on technical/medical spirits, the potato-pricing agreement – and the consequences of any fragmentation of the Arcus group – were not investigated in advance. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has been given the primary responsibility to investigate the sale of shares. This is done in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture. A unanimous social committee will await the outcome of this investigation before actually examining the proposal to authorise more than Arcus to make and convert spirits. All the hearing bodies, the management and staff of the Arcus companies and Norwegian potato industries – NOPO – primarily wanted such a procedure. In a letter dated 9 March this year, the Minister for Social Affairs recommended the Stortinget to reject Gundersen's proposal for a decision. As I have already said, the Social Committee has put the matter at risk. For my own part, I will be told that I will find it difficult to reject the proposal of Gundersen's representative if Arcus AS with subsidiaries is privatised, as the majority of the population has already adopted. I am surprised that the government parties voted in favour of the privatisation proposal, but they had to accept this too in order to have a budgetary settlement with the Progress Party and the Right. I have registered that representatives of the government parties found the privatisation decision fine, among others. because Arcus had aggressive marketing. I don't share this view and will be very surprised if a private owner of Arcus will add an as low marketing strategy as the state-owned Arcus. Does the Minister for Social Affairs share this view? I am also surprised that the representatives of the Central Party were not more concerned about the potato production of the Norwegian farmers. ==References== 20000 tonnes of potatoes — small potatoes, residual potatoes after potato production, etc. – is used in the manufacture of spirits, such as: used for the manufacture of Norwegian akevit. This potato quantity represents 1/6 of the total potato production area in Norway. What are these producers to produce if they are not guaranteed the supply of potatoes for the production of spirits? If possible, I would like to have the Council of State's assessment of this issue as well. In a letter of 21 April this year, the Labour Party's fraction in the Social Committee asked the Minister for Agriculture about this and asked several other important agricultural policy questions in this context. No response to this enquiry has been received by the Workers' Group per year. the date of issue. I have a certain understanding that the Gjønes government council has problems with providing adequate answers to these questions, which I think should have been clarified before the Stortinget decided to privatize Arcus AS with subsidiaries. The extra cost to Arcus of using Norwegian potatoes in the production of spirits is approximately. Ten million. kr annually. Can it be expected that private actors – Norwegian or foreign – will take this additional cost without any compensation? The margins are very small in this sector and competition is strong. Arcus AS was established on 1 January 1996 to take over the production, import, wholesale and export activities of the Vinmonopole. The Arcus Group consists of two main activities organised in the subsidiaries Arcus Produkter AS and Vectura AS. The group has facilities in Oslo, Trondheim, Hamar and Bergen. I have a lot of understanding that they are approx. 550 members of staff of the Arcus Group are surprised that only three to four years had passed from the previous reorganisation to the privatisation of the business. Friday, June 4, this year, the newspaper Nations read: «Akevit war in the government». State Council Sponheim stated that it is little time to impose conditions on the buyers of Arcus to use Norwegian potato crisps in current brandy varieties. And Municipal and Regional Minister Odd Roger Enoksen insists that akevitt and other Norwegian spirits are to be produced on Norwegian potatoes when Arcus is privatised, you can read on in the same article. Who can we trust? And what does the Government really think about this matter? The revised national budgets show, inter alia: that the Government assumes that further work is being done on the various issues that should be settled, but also assumes that the State should not suspend the sale process until all such matters have been clarified. The aim must be to fully privatise the Arcus Group’s business, the Government further claims in the revised national budget. In the spontaneous question hour four weeks ago, I asked the Social Minister about the privatisation of Arcus AS with subsidiaries. Governments responded, inter alia: the following: ‘But there are certain questions that need to be settled, clarified and taken up before it might be a question of selling the axes in Arcus.’She also said in this context: ‘In this context, it is also true that if problems arise and questions arise that can’t be resolved in line with what the Government has proposed in order to propose the hall of these axes, it may be appropriate to reconsider the whole matter.’ My question to the Minister for Social Affairs will then be: Does the Minister for Social Affairs still acknowledge this statement? I would also like to ask whether this means that the Central Party may be prepared to re-establish its previous position on privatising Arcus AS with subsidiaries. If the Central Party adopts such a position, there will be a majority in Stortingen against privatising this business.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1792	Per. Today, no one other than Arcus is allowed to make or re-distill spirits in Norway. This cannot be due to alcohol policy reasons, because, in the case of sales to the consumer, it is via the wine monopoly and not via Arcus. Arcus is not the same as the Wine Monopoly. It's a separate company. I want to show that the Stortinget decided on 30 November 1998 to privatise Arcus AS with its subsidiaries. As I read this decision, there is a decision on the sale of the shares in Arcus, and not an invitation to the Government to investigate further what was meant by the decision itself. However, the party to the progress will not submit a separate proposal in this matter beyond the Committee's position. We will await the position that will come from the Council of State Lars Sponheim as a response to the Committee's request of 21 April 1999. However, I would like to ask the Council of State today to explain what is the Government's view on this matter. It is a fact, when you have read up to several articles on this matter, about whether to sell Arcus or not, that there has been some bursting sight from some governments. It is time for the Storting to state what is the Government's view on this matter. One can no longer be held on the pier, or in the uncertainty of what is the viewpoint of the Government or of various governments. I really hope that the Council of State can now give us an answer to this. On 13 April this year the Social Committee held consultations on this matter. Then I heard no alcohol policy argument for not going along with this proposal. The arguments used were the potato agreement. It seems like it's the potato deal that's the leading point in this case, and not the alcohol policy. I am therefore really looking forward to hearing the opinion of the Council of State. Both Arcus himself, the trade union of Arcus and Norwegian potato industries were in the committee for consultation, and the big point was precisely the potato agreement. Among other things, said from the trade union at Arcus that the danger by accepting this proposal was that you left the potato agreement because you could save up to 10 million. kr by using other suppliers of potatoes. And then you can no longer use alcohol policy arguments in this case, you have to deal with what is. I would remind you that the Committee does not reject this proposal. I would also like to remind you of what the representative of Skogholt said that, if the company Arcus is privatised, one will also go further and look into the matter and consider whether the monopoly that Arcus has per person can no longer be maintained. today. Finally, I would like to ask the Council of State today to make it quite clear to us the representatives who are working on this, what is the Government's view of the shares in Arcus. Are they to be sold, as stated in the agreement and in the decision of the Storting – it is clear that the shares of this company are to be sold – or will one continue to comment on this matter from different levels and create uncertainty as to whether it is part of the company to be sold, whether it is the input of the company to be sold – or what is to be sold? I hope the answer is available today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1809	The issue of the Stortinget now discusses also has important industrial policy aspects. Today there is an agreement between Arcus, Norwegian Potato Industries and the Ministry of Agriculture to ensure that Norwegian potatoes are used as raw material in the products Arcus produces for national and international sales. Norwegian potato industries are a cooperative enterprise consisting of Norwegian potato producers. The agreement is that Arcus undertakes to buy what they need from potato crisps, from Norwegian potato industries. This potato crisp forms the basis for one third of the total alcohol sales of the Vinmonopole. Not least, this potato primrose forms the basis for the Norwegian akevite. How important does this supply of potato crisps have for Norwegian potato producers? Some factual information may describe it. Norwegian potato industries deliver approx. Two million. a litre of potato liquor for Arcus. This is liquor that measures 96 pst. alcohol volume. It takes 10 kg of potatoes to make one litre of alcohol. So it goes every year with 20,000 tons of potatoes for Norwegian potato crisps production. The total Norwegian sales production of potatoes totals 350 000 tonnes. In this way, a delivery of 20 000 tonnes is significant but not decisive. However, the point is that, through the production of spirits, potato producers receive a provision for what is called obsolescence potatoes. So there are potatoes that are either too small, too large, or have other mistakes that make them undistributable in other ways. The loss of alcohol production will therefore lead to major problems for Norwegian potato producers. Norwegian agricultural production is more expensive for various reasons than the production on the basis of which the world price of potatoes is based. This is related to climatic conditions, but it is primarily related to the fact that we in Norway want to use agricultural policy as a regional policy instrument. But Arcus must compete both nationally and internationally with others on equal terms. The finished brandy comes into Norway free of customs duties. In order for Arcus to be competitive, there is a price reduction scheme for Norwegian potato prit above the agricultural agreement. Norwegian potato industries are paid 13.50 kr per. Literally potato crisp. However, Arcus only pays $6.50 for each litre. The difference of NOK 7 is paid by the State over the agricultural agreement. Despite this price write-down, it is clear that Arcus could have obtained potato liquor cheaper on the world market. This suggests that the privatisation of Arcus, where the agreement between Arcus, Norwegian potato industries and the state is not continued, will result in a dramatic drop in income for Norwegian potato producers. The same would be the case if non-Arcus were allowed to produce spirits in Norway. Indeed, other producers would have clear competitive advantage over Arcus. They can buy potato booze at the world market price. This is hardly the concern of the proposer. In this way, this document adds point. The 8 proposal is well integrated into the range of policy actions of the Progress Party, where regional policy thinking is totally absent. But that might have to worry the government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1830	Before initiating this debate, the rapporteur of the case concluded that the Committee had unanimously decided to postpone the substance of the case. The Christian People's Party will deal with this and not take up any potatoes today!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1835	I have also noticed that the Committee has decided that there should be no real debate on this matter for good reasons. However, I would like to take this opportunity to relate a few comments to the problem area. I fully agree, of course, with the view of my party that Arcus should be privatised. But there is no correlation whatsoever between the privatisation of Arcus leading to the closure of an interesting Norwegian production of raw materials and through a processing process to even more valuable drops. In this context, the Council of State and I have had interesting exchanges of views before, where the Council of State's conclusion has been very clear, that she has the sense of the thoughts I have expressed. I would just like to point out that, on Monday this week, the Norwegian Industrial Attaché has a very interesting article on how it is possible to reconcile these concerns, competition in relation to the monopolies, the protection mechanisms that we have had so far, that take care of both the competitive interests and the need to achieve value creation, such as those we have so far. has seen it in the production of food and other valuable nutrients through a process that has in itself protective elements but in a competitive concept. There, the Norwegian industrial attaché shows what has happened to Konjakk. I have, in all modesty, taken an initiative towards the Minister of Economic Affairs, asking us to investigate what is going on in order to bring the state in as a control body. In the same way that the French State ensures that national pride is maintained in France, we should be able to do the same with products that we are not less proud of in Norway. If there are any people who think that Norwegian potato production is not good enough, I hope that they will find that they can have better feelings in relation to the more processed product, Løiten Linie Aquavit, who owns potato production, Norwegian recipes, a unique concept with Wilhelmsen's boats over the equator and back. This whole concept should now be able to take advantage of it in a positive way for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1848	At the Committee's discretion there is a letter from Minister of Industry Lars Sponheim about how things are being handled. In addition, the Minister of Social Affairs has also been asked, before Lars Sponheim got his question, to consider the proposal made by Fridtjof Frank Gundersen. There I refer to the Stortingen Decision of 30 November 1998 and say that the work on privatisation raises several questions that should be considered in conjunction, referring to Arcus Produkter's own dishes under the alcohol laws and under the legislation under the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, among others. spirits and technical spirits. I see the committee's handling of this matter as waiting for the announcement that the Government will come with, which both of us have said in our letters, means that there are several pages to consider. If we take from the decision on the basis of the Stortinget's decision on 30 November, it is as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals in 1999 on sub-privatisation and stock market listing of Telenor and the sale of the shares of Arcus AS with its subsidiaries.’ Let me answer the questions that have been asked, that I can inform you that the Government is in the decision to submit proposals in 1999 on the sale of axles in Arcus AS, and that such a proposal will be made when the case is settled. A report by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, Christiania Markets, is currently taking the lead in this distribution work. As the Minister of Economic Affairs points out in his letter to the Committee, several methods may be envisaged for the hall of the axes. I also refer to the review of the national budget. According to Christiania Markets’ assessment, the optimal time for the sale of the axe in Arcus will be after the company can show trust with regard to ignition and that unclear framework conditions have been clarified. I argued that as the committee is dealing with the matter today, it is in that we consider the sale and prepare a case in accordance with what has been said earlier. There are assessments of alcohol policy. In the case of the distribution company Vectura, the wholesale exclusive right which has already expired since 1 January 1996 is the special hall of Arcus Produkter, which currently has the exclusive right to produce spirits and, in addition, the exclusive right in the field of technical spirits, must be looked at more closely. There are also, as many have mentioned here, several questions that need to be considered in connection with the rights and obligations of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance agreements and regulations. The government has also noted the performance of the Norwegian industrial attaché in Paris, Einar Alme, and the relationship with Norwegian tradition and Norwegian production. Let me say from the Government's side that in this debate there have been many interesting recordings. As far as I am concerned, this view has been promoted and passed on to both the Minister of Industry, who formally manages this distribution, and also to the other Councils of State. So I'm glad that the committee is waiting for a case on this issue to come to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1873	The issue we are discussing today is, in my opinion, raising a fundamental debate on our alcohol policy and, therefore, the state's ability to provide leadership that can provide lower consumption of alcohol in the Norwegian community. In the context of the 1999 budget, the Government Parties, the Right and the Advance Party have decided to privatise the production, import, wholesale, distribution and export activities of the Vinmonopole. These establishments constitute the Arcus group. With this, a bourgeois majority of the Government has, in my opinion, kicked one leg under a restrictive Norwegian alcohol policy. Although the country's prime minister, who is also a representative of the Christian People's Party, has stated that Arcus no longer has any economic significance, I do not share this assessment at all. It has been claimed by civil society that Arcus should have held an aggressive market profile. I haven't noticed anything about it. But if this were to have a twist of truth, then the urgent question would be: do anyone think that a privacy Arcus would not operate on a purely commercial principle, that is. try to maximise the sales of their products? Whatever private owner may enter, I believe that the simple law of capital will apply: the maximum return on invested capital. In my opinion, this will put a very strong pressure on increased sales and thus risk increased consumption of alcohol products in particular, which would be contrary to what we are looking for in Norwegian alcohol policy, i.e. a gradual transition from spirit to alcoholic beverages. I have noticed with concern that the Minister of Industry in his letter to the Workers' Party Group on this matter would leave a privately owned company entirely free in its business operations. As a result, Norwegian potatoes in alcohol production will no longer be available. If the agricultural industry loses part or all of the supply of potatoes for the production of spirits, the profitability of a very large number of farms will disappear – with closure as a result. It is most unlikely that a privately owned company will purchase Norwegian raw materials when this can be purchased from other countries at a lower price. A privatized Arcus will thus be an estimate of our agricultural industry. A further blow to Norwegian alcohol policy will be the possibility of several producers of alcohol in Norway. I can hardly imagine that by getting a privatized production company, we can maintain a production monopoly, as the state-owned company is today. I believe that this is a fast fall and that one quickly gets more alcohol producers in Norway and therefore further marketing pressure towards the Norwegian market as well. The government, the Right Party and the Advance Party have thus created considerable uncertainty about future alcohol policies and have made it difficult to reduce alcohol consumption in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1892	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1896	The representative, Are Næss, pointed out that the rapporteur had put forward a debate on the issues of the privatisation of Arcus with subsidiaries, on potato deliveries, eutrophication policy, etc. I have also registered that the representative of the Christian People's Party does not want to participate in a debate on the questions that have been focused on this matter. I don't think it's strange that we in this debate come up with those questions. The hearing of the Committee in dealing with this matter was, as the representative Nesvik said, only concentrated on the issues that are now being focused in this debate today. State Council Kleppa referred to a letter from the Minister of Industry following the suspension. I think the Minister of Economic Affairs has given a good answer to our committee, but what is not right is the different plays that the government parties have been making for weeks now. The signals are very contradictory, and the arguments of one Council of State echo the arguments of the other, even in the same newspaper article, as stated. interviews in the United Nations. The reason why we have such a debate here in the Chamber is that there is so much doubt about the purpose of the Government when it comes to dealing with this matter. I now record that the Minister of Social Affairs has given a clear answer to the question of the privatisation of Arcus, that it will be in line with the majority decision of the Stortinge. But it is an answer that is totally contrary to what the Council of State gave in the spontaneous question hour four weeks ago. In the ordinary proceedings in the Committee and in the various groupings, we have tried to get answers on both the potato deliveries and the problems surrounding this, in a letter to the Minister of Agriculture on 21 April this year, and as I said in my main post, those questions have not been answered at all.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1905	As several speakers have pointed out, there is a unanimous committee that is now postponing this matter to a see what will be the result in terms of Arcus, and, among other things, as well. The representative of the Committee, Mr Hernæs, has duly postponed the matter. It is clear that the Arcus question, in my view, has both an alcohol policy significance and an economic policy significance. I expect that it will be emphasised in the context of the further handling and procedure in this case. I also agree that it is an important matter of business policy, such as, among other things. Mr Hanssen, representative of the Economic and Social Committee, presented the matter here. About one-sixth of potato production is currently delivered to crude alcohol production under the direction of Arcus, and it is clear that this has a significant impact on the production of potatoes in large parts of our country and in the districts where there is a high level of commercial activity in that context. In fact, I agree with the representative, Bjørn Hernæs, that there are certain values and traditions, including in the context of production, that one should try to maintain and ensure. I think that should be possible. It's also my signal back to those who represent the government here today, that you have to make an effort to do that. It may be that heresy" and my pathways are separated in terms of the alcohol policy importance it has and the traditions that lie there, and the importance of food policy. But regardless of whether we may have a slightly different view of both market liberalism, free trade and other things, there are values here that we have to address and defend in connection with this matter – and then we come back to the realities of Document No. 8:22.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1916	I can reassure the representative Hernæs that I am not trying to destroy something for the Løiten-akevitten, at least I have to guarantee that. But there is one thing I would like to have clarified from the Council of State. I assume that when the Council of State spoke about an investigation in connection with the business situation, it is of course based on the fact that a sale of Arcus is going to take place, as she was inside her post. I will – as the Council of State will have the floor after me – ask for clarification on. The representative of Skogholt interpreted the post to the Council of State in such a way as to sell Arcus. I hope that I can do that too, because at least we'll get that piece of the way cleared. I think it's time for you to be able to do that now. Or is it that that's not what the Council of State said, and that the chaos is perfect, that we can still receive new signals from individual state councils in this matter? That's the explanation I'm asking the Council of State to come here. Is the decision to sell the shares in Arcus stated by the decision to raise the issue? With regard to re-distillation and the production bit, there is a monopoly. Vectura is exposed to competition and there is competition in that market. So this is about the sale of Arcus with subsidiaries, that is. also sales of Vectura. I hope we can get a clarification from the Council of State now. Would you sell the entire company?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1927	It's a special and interesting experience to listen to the different posts when I'm here as a social minister, and to see them in the light of some debates we've had before in this room on alcohol policy issues, where from time to time I've been responsible for showing a little too little liberality in alcohol policy, while the situation today is such that I owe it to the opposite. I do not know if it is entirely clear to me whether, in this case, the focus is on alcohol policy assessments or whether the main emphasis is on potatoes and agriculture — or whether there are other considerations — which are given the most importance. In this way, I just thought this debate reflected the need to address the different sides carefully. So the whole thing is going to be presented. To the question of what is to be sold, let me quote from Minister of Industry Lars Sponheim's letter, where he points out that, in his opinion, there may be different ways to follow up the Storting's decision. He writes: «- Sale of shares to one buyer. – Sale of Arcus Products and Vectura to various buyers. - Sales of input. – Exchange quotation from Arcus. – Sub-privatisation, i.e. either: partial sale of the whole group, sale of one of the subsidiaries, or partial sale of one or both of the subsidiaries.’;» A private matter will determine what advice the government gives here. Then I understand that the representative of Skogholt perceives my post as saying something different today than what I said in spontaneous questioning on 12 May this year. And then I said, ‘I support the proposal made by the Government in the fall’. I have also said that today. I also said that if something unexpected appeared, it could form the basis for a new assessment. I am not aware that something unexpected has appeared so far, but there will also be clarification in a collective case.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1954	Harald T. Nesvik has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1957	The letter sent by Minister of Industry Sponheim to the Committee is one of the reasons why I wonder if the Government will really be in charge of the decision of 30 November 1998, for the decision says ‘sale of the shares in Arcus’. If you go to the bottom of the letter from the State Council of Sponheim, it says: «part of the sale of the whole group, sale of one of the subsidiaries, or partial sale of one or both subsidiaries.» It's not the sale of Arcus, and it's not the shares in Arcus.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1967	The sale of Arcus makes visible in a clear way the dilemma that this government is in. So you get a sale that the government really does not want, you get an alcohol policy that the Christian People's Party does not want, an agricultural policy that the Central Party does not want and statements from the Minister of Industry that the Left does not want. I can immediately say that SV has always opposed this sale. Of course, we are in agreement with the Labour Party and with the statement made here by the representative Kristoffersen. I think that today's debate shows in a very straightforward and constructive way how unreasonable this sale is.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1974	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 3766]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1982	It is then to be voted on on on today's map. Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e1991	In the course of the debate, two proposals were put forward after proposal No. 3, from the Advancement Party, is withdrawn. It's: proposal No 1, by Harald T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Socialist Left Party, No. 2, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote first on the proposal from the Progress Party, then on the proposal from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party and then on the vote. Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to implement the same financing mechanism for rehabilitation at the training institutions applicable to public hospitals when the patient is referred from a doctor or hospital.’;
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e2016	Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government requests approval of the rehabilitation offer for cancer patients at the Haugland Centre and returns to the Stortinget with a proposal for funding to ensure the operation of the Centre.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e2042	The Christian People's Party, the Right and the Center parties have stated that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e2092	During the debate Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:48 and the associated setting, Innst. [[1998-99]] S. No 210 shall be forwarded to the Financial Committee so that the matter can be seen in the context of the examination by the Grand Duchy of the revised national budget for 1999.’;» [[1998-99]] Alternatively, the Committee's position will be divided into this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e2115	During the debate, John I. Alvheim put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the implementation of a two-year test scheme in a representative sample of counties in order to evaluate the test scheme, on the basis of which the requirement for referral from a doctor to a chiropractor and physiotherapist with further training in manual therapy is removed.’ Alternatively, the Committee's position will be divided into this proposal. The Committee had ceased: The size requests the Government to carry out a sample scheme of over 2 years in a representative sample of counties so that the sample scheme can be evaluated. The following are taken into account: – the reference requirement from a doctor to a chiropractor falls away – chiropractor is given the opportunity to report his patients for a shorter period of time – chiropractor may refer to the specialist under specified conditions, – chiropractors are given the opportunity to request physical treatment. The testing scheme may be established through an agreement between the Rikstrøgdeverket and the Norwegian Kiropractor Association based on a specified number of applications for each State. Each chiropractor forming part of such a contractual relationship shall be entitled to withdraw reimbursement from the public interest within a fixed amount per. calendar year. The same pilot scheme applies to physiotherapists with advanced manual therapy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e2152	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Gunhild Øyågen, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 27 May 1999: ‘The decision asks the Government to assess whether private health professionals with an operating contract may be required to participate in the education and training of health professionals.’ The voting boards showed that there were 46 votes in favour and 41 votes against the proposal of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 15.06.15]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e2164	It seems that there is a basis for resuming that vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e2171	If no one opposes it, it has to be done. At the second vote, the voting boards showed that 53 votes were cast in favour and 49 votes against the proposal of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 15.06.57]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e2181	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e2188	I also voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e2195	I think there's something wrong here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e2202	There are several people here who have voted incorrectly. The President then proposes that we take the vote for the third time. The President pointed out that the Labour Party and the Socialist Left are behind the proposal on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e2217	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Gunhild Øyågen, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 27 May 1999: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that no public hospital is converted into a limited liability company until the Stortinget has dealt with or issued an opinion on the suspension of the Sørensen Committee.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e2233	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr John I. Alvheim, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, transmitted by the meeting of 27 May 1999: ‘The government asks the Government to base the majority proposal from the Sørensen Committee on the organisation of hospitals so that hospital owners are free to choose from all the different forms of hospital affiliation that the sample considers should be available.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-09.ana.ud1748e2265	There is no record.
