ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e48	From the meeting of the alternate of the Finnmark County, Einar Johansen, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in the Stortinget from 16 November to 18 November in order to participate as a member of the Norwegian delegation to the 28th session of the Joint Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission in Murmansk. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. Other alternate, Inger Lise Balandin, is hereby invited to attend during the period of leave.3. Inger Lise Balandin is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Mimmi Beeivi.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e78	The position of the Communication on Nordic Cooperation shows that there is a broad consensus in Stortinget on the main lines of Nordic cooperation, as expressed through the Nordic Council. The exception is the Progress Party, which believes that the Nordic Council in its current form should be reduced or reorganised. However, the Progress Party does not propose to wind up the Nordic Council, nor am I aware that the party's representatives in the Council have seriously raised the issue of liquidation at the sessions of the Nordic Council. When discussing Nordic cooperation, it is important to clarify that cooperation within the framework of the Nordic Council is only part of the extensive and close cooperation between the five Nordic countries. A good example of this was one two weeks ago when the Nordic country's common embassy complex was inaugurated in Berlin. This cooperation project has naturally aroused considerable interest, including internationally. Here, the Nordic region of the ‘Europe of the Regions’ demonstrates that five countries, with a common Nordic identity, have the will and ability to unite forces for common goals and tasks. In this way, the Nordic countries are also showing ways of new forms of diplomatic-political cooperation. The inauguration of the joint Nordic Berlin Embassy on 20 October also illustrates some of the breadth of the unique Nordic cooperation. Indeed, it is in the combination of popular, voluntary and official cooperation that the dynamics of this cooperation lie. The Embassy complex in Berlin and enhanced Nordic cooperation on, inter alia, Peacekeeping operations are two out of several examples of the gradual strengthening of the international dimension of Nordic cooperation. It is interesting to note that the positive developments in cooperation have taken place despite the Nordic countries having opted for different solutions both in terms of security policy cooperation and in terms of links with the EU. Despite different road choices regarding NATO and the EU, there seems to be a strong willingness to maintain and further develop Nordic cooperation. That this cooperation, as mentioned above, has gained a stronger international profile, including: in the context of cooperation in the neighbourhoods and in other parts of Europe, natural developments are seen in the light of what has happened in Europe in the 1990s. I do not share the view of the Progress Party that the Nordic countries' different road choices in the EU case have made the Nordic Council an inappropriate cooperation forum. On the contrary: precisely because the Nordic countries have chosen different forms of association, the Nordic Council also serves as a useful forum for consultation and coordination. In the communication on Nordic cooperation, which is under consideration today, the Government states that the Nordic consultation has led to common Nordic positions and influence on EU legislative work, including: in areas such as the environment, consumer protection, food safety and equality. A key challenge for the Nordic region, including the Nordic Council, is to bridge the old East-West divide in Europe – not least in terms of involving Russia in a broad international cooperation pattern. In my view, the Finnish initiative on the northern dimension requires a common Nordic follow-up, including: because, through the long-standing joint efforts of the Nordic countries in the Baltic region, North-West Russia, the Baltic Sea region and the Arctic region, important experiences and knowledge and a wide network of contacts have developed, which should be coordinated with the development of the northern dimension of the EU. The central group of the Nordic Councils has taken an initiative to make Nordic cooperation an active partner in the development of the northern dimension. The Northern Dimension should be developed in consultation with both parliamentarians, non-governmental organisations and existing Nordic, Baltic and Russian networks. In other words, the northern dimension must have a parliamentary and popular anchor. During the Nordic Council's session in Stockholm next week, globalisation and the Nordic region are the themes of their own debate on the basis of a separate report on the impact of globalisation on the Nordic welfare communities. The growing concern about the destabilising force of globalisation represents almost the entire political spectrum today. It is important that the Nordic Council has put this theme on the Nordic agenda. It's a big challenge how to, among other things, through Nordic cooperation, can regain democratic and regional control of the negative aspects of globalisation. The Norwegian Presidency of the Nordic Council took the initiative in 1997 for a Nordic IT policy cooperation. Under the Icelandic Presidency, a separate Council of Ministers and a separate Committee of Officials for IT Policy are established. As a region, the Nordic region has a major geographical challenge related to the spatial distribution of settlements, jobs and competences. Against this background, the development of information and communication technologies, ICT, will be an important step in ensuring business and housing throughout the Nordic region. ‘Digital All-man rights’ are being established as a concept both in Sweden and in Norway, as an expression of the level of ambition that you will pursue in relation to the new technology. The Nordic Council of Ministers has taken the initiative to invest at Nordic level in cooperation in the Nordic region on the construction of ICT infrastructure and the further development of ICT, inter alia. in the education sector. Within parts of the Nordic region, there has been a strong centralisation of business and housing in the 1990s. Both in Finland, Sweden, Iceland and Norway, politicians are concerned about the long-term impact of continued strong centralisation in the Nordic region. Cooperation on regional policy has been defined as a Nordic area of cooperation for several decades. Developments in the 1990s are likely to lead to higher levels of cooperation on the policy agenda of the Nordic Council. This is an area where Nordic countries can really benefit from exchanging ideas and experiences. It may be worth noting that when the Finnish parliament last week debated centralisation and district policy, reference was made to the Norwegian model and the various measures taken by the Norwegian government to counter the strong centralisation and facilitate a positive development across the country. Also in this area of cooperation, the development of a widely available IT network across the Nordic region will be a forward-looking tool. Nordic cooperation has undergone a comprehensive reform process in recent years. The objective of this process has been both to streamline and vitalise the Nordic Council and to adapt the work of the Council to the new framework set by the Nordic countries’ membership of the EU and the EEA respectively. Five years have passed since the adoption of the new organisational structure by the Nordic Council. The Committee considers that the time has come to evaluate the reform process and to discuss further the experience of the new Council structure. In particular, it would be useful to assess the extent to which the Nordic countries’ relationship with the EU and the EEA has affected the work of the Nordic Council. The Committee therefore calls on the Government to assess the reforms and the new structure as the basis for a review in the EEA next year’s Annual General Report on Nordic Cooperation. The Committee would also like the delegation to the Nordic Council to draw up a report on the experience of parliamentarians in the new structure and expansion of the work in the light of the reform process of the Nordic Council and the integration processes in Europe. I also refer to the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e114	This time, the annual communication on Nordic cooperation places a decisive emphasis on developments and changes in cooperation resulting from new external framework conditions over the 1990s. Both at ministerial level and at the Nordic Council of Ministers, work is increasingly influenced by the processes of foreign and security policy change in our neighbourhood and in Europe. That is why we are now talking in the Nordic context about the neighbourhood dimension and the European dimension. While the original official Nordic cooperation was concerned with internal Nordic issues, such as the single labour market, etc., the work of both the Council of Ministers and the Nordic Councils is increasingly marked by coordination and cooperation, such as: This is due to the different links between the Nordic countries both with the EU and NATO. Area cooperation comes as a consequence of the dissolution of the Soviet Union and the fall of the Wall. Here, Barents’ cooperation, work in the Baltic Sea Council and contributions to the qualification of the Baltic States in EU membership are central tasks for Nordic cooperation. It is easy to agree with the message's emphasis that a main objective of close-proximity cooperation is to ensure peace and stability in an enlarged Nordic region. Both democratic, social and economic developments are necessary prerequisites for such stability. The Nordic Council, in particular, has pushed for a stepping up of the Council of Ministers’ neighbourhood action. As a consequence of changing assumptions, not least the integration process in Europe, the Nordic Council in 1995 was given a new organisational structure in which former trade and sector selections were replaced by three main selections: the Nordic Committee, the Sub-Committee and the European Committee. It is in Norway’s interest to play an active role in premising the development of our neighbourhoods, including through Nordic cooperation. Unbelievable changes are happening. We experience diversity, democracy, cooperation and integration, but also uncertainty and unforeseeableness. We see how social dividing lines intensify. A silver wall or a poverty wall – a little depending on where you stand – also goes through our neighbourhoods, not just southward. Both in the three Baltic States and in Russia, we have seen new internal social divisions. We feel that the poverty problem is getting established. We experience long-term unemployed and large groups who are permanently poor, while new upper classes with unfathomable wealth are growing. Much of this is probably due to the lack of effective administrations and public and civil organisations, but also to few or no traditions of private business development, economic rules and democratic law. It is therefore important that the Nordic countries contribute, in cooperation with the EU, to institutional renewal, and perhaps it is as important and as effective a support element in cooperation with these countries as injection of capital. In the Baltic Sea region, it represents one of the most dynamic regions in Europe with a high growth potential. Nordic countries also cooperate in the Baltic Sea Council, which is important for example. Because of its composition, the five Nordic countries have different links with the EU, here are the three Baltic States, and here are Poland, Germany and Russia. The Council, in a way, maintains Russia in close cooperation with Russia and therefore also becomes an important link between the EU and Russia. Following the model of the Nordic Council of Ministers and the Nordic Council of Ministers, a Baltic Council of Ministers and a Baltic Parliamentary Assembly have been established. Cooperation between the Nordic and Baltic Councils of Ministers is intensified at both political and official level. In the last year there has also been a joint parliamentary session between the Nordic Council and the Baltic Assembly. Since 1999, Arctic cooperation has also been included in the Council of Ministers' neighbourhood programme. In April 1999, the Stortinget and the Nordic Council jointly organised the first Parliamentary Barents Conference in Alta. Nevertheless, Europe and EU affairs are probably the most prominent and will be the focus of Nordic cooperation. The further development of the EU and the pace of integration affect all Nordic countries, including Norway. It is interesting that the Government considers that Nordic cooperation has led to the influence of common Nordic positions and assessments on EU legislative work, including: in areas such as the environment, the working environment, consumer protection, food safety, employment and equality. In the Nordic Council of Europe, we have, among other things: address EU employment policy, the introduction of the euro, consumer protection in the EU, the EU enlargement process, Schengen and the northern dimension of the EU. It has been important for the implementation of the provisions of the Amsterdam Treaty to be close to Nordic contact. This is not least the case in the context of negotiations on the institutional agreement between the EU on the one hand and Norway and Iceland on the other hand on Schengen. In the coming years, the Nordic EU countries will, in turn, hold the Presidency of the European Union. Finns have already shown teeth as EU leaders and have respected themselves. Sweden is in the lead position in the spring of 2001 and Denmark in the autumn of 2002. I miss a common Nordic strategy on how we can best benefit from the advantages the Presidency will obviously give to the Nordic region as a region, including our neighbourhoods, also because membership of the Baltic States and Poland and the move of Germany's capital to Berlin will shift the centre of gravity of the EU north-east. We in the Nordic region must make a strong contribution to getting a substance, a content in the northern dimension, and that it must focus on North-West Russia, not just the Baltic Sea region. We need to involve the EU in commitment cooperation northwards. For the last two years, defence and security policy has been put on the agenda of the Nordic Council. The most exciting thing we will be facing in the future in this sector is the EU initiative for a defence and security identity. With the different starting points of the Nordic countries, both in relation to the EU, the Western Union and NATO, this theme will have to be central and the debates will also be exciting in time. I said in my speech on Nordic cooperation a year ago that ‘the glue of cooperation in the Nordic region has been cultural and linguistic similarities, democratic social models and matching valuations’. Our common value base, based on, for example, solidarity, equivalency and democracy have enabled Nordic coordination of positions, actions and policies in various international forums, often with constructive and successful results. Nordic initiatives have marked the development of work, objectives and instruments in a number of multinational institutions, far beyond the size and geographical location of the Nordic region. Examples include the World Bank and the IMF, reforms in the United Nations system and international trade. The Nordic countries have, among other things: Strongly committed to the further development of the so-called HIPC programme in order to reduce the debt burden on developing countries, and there is also strong contact with individual EU countries. Finally, the amended external and internal framework conditions mean that the Committee considers that time has come to discuss further the experience of the reform process and the restructuring which the Nordic Council has undergone in the 1990s, as the case-in-law rapporteur underlines. A unanimous committee therefore requests that the notification in 2000 provide an assessment of the situation and that the delegation to the Nordic Council also prepare a separate report.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e150	As the representative Jacobsen rightly pointed out, in a note to this communication, the Progress Party reiterated our previous position that the Nordic Council should be laid down. It is a note and not a concrete proposal, and it is because there is no majority in this Chamber to promote a proposal for closure. However, we found it appropriate to make a comment on this to indicate that we consider the practical implementation of Nordic cooperation to be different from the majority in this Chamber. There is no disagreement between the Progress Party and the majority of the Stortingen on the importance of Nordic cooperation. The Nordic region is a central arena, also according to the assessment of the Progress Party. However, I would like to stress that, in our opinion, this cooperation is well maintained at government level. There are few areas in the world where cooperation works as well as it does in the Nordic region. This has been said in the past, among other things. in this room, Norway, as you know, is a small country in the world, and that means that it is necessary for Norway to give priority to its use of resources and to put in place the key foreign policy instruments to maximise the return of resources. There has been a dynamic development of policy, and Sweden and Finland are now, as the representative Jacobsen rightly pointed out in his speech, members of the EU. And this is part of the dynamic development that means that, according to the Progress Party, resources should be concentrated on other international forums.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e161	Nordic cooperation is a development cooperation. It's called not only a geographical concept, it also expresses a cultural and valuable identity, a connection between people who are strongly linked through common historical and cultural roots. Some basic policy premises for this cooperation have changed significantly in recent years. The Nordic countries have, for example, different solutions chosen for a relationship with the EU. However, it has not prevented the dynamic development of Nordic cooperation even after the recent EU accessions with Sweden and Finland. For example, in the Nordic Council: the initial internal Nordic cooperation has been complemented by a neighbourhood dimension and a Europe dimension. In the Nordic Council context, we are also seeing new examples of the Nordic welfare model, employment policy and the involvement of voluntary organisations – good examples of key Nordic priorities – being complemented by new initiatives to maintain important common Nordic policies and to pursue a common Nordic strategy and identity. And this is not symbol politics. The documents which are being discussed at the Nordic Council of the session in Stockholm, starting next week, show that these are important realities. Valuable experiences in one Nordic country can inspire other Nordic countries to try out similar solutions. Research and committee work brings together useful knowledge and valuable information that can be used by other countries. But it has to be admitted – there will be an incredible amount of paper and a lot of words! The Nordic Council can become more focused. It can be more efficient and certainly also economics better both with paper and with words. But we need this platform represented by the Nordic Council, as an instrument both for making visible and for continuing important elements of Nordic identity. This is why Nordic issues are still a high priority in the Nordic countries through the Nordic Council. Therefore, it is also gratifying that the Nordic governments are being so heavily represented at the forthcoming session in Stockholm. The development of Nordic cooperation has also moved towards a more regional perspective. Global and regional issues are increasingly shaping the political agenda, and we are becoming increasingly aware that we are in a clear relationship with neighbouring regions both in terms of the environment, trade, transport and security policy – to mention something. It is interesting to follow the development of regional cooperation both around the Baltic Sea and in the Barents region. Here, good cooperation relations have been built primarily at political level over a short period of time, but now there is a discussion on how to also get a more targeted people into people-to-people cooperation. Experience from long-term cooperation in the Nordic region can also be useful for other regions. Lack of communication, networking and cross-border contact results in distrust and often contributes to maintaining a steady high level of political tension. A joint forum, a meeting place where regional issues can be discussed and where the positions and positions of individual countries can be deepened, could open up better relations between countries. But it is, after all, all the internal Nordic issues that will have the greatest attention in Nordic cooperation. The Council of Ministers itself strongly emphasises that the work on European issues should be more marked by consultation and exchange of information than by decisions and the implementation of decisions, as otherwise done in the Nordic cases. However, there is no doubt that the Government's communication on Nordic cooperation is strongly influenced by a greater emphasis on regional issues. Nordic cooperation and cohesion can hardly be sufficiently well maintained without taking into account the need for the Nordic dimension to be related to other regional and global conditions. Therefore, it is natural that the policy agenda of the Nordic Council is getting more and more excited about the topic. The Council shall, at its session in Stockholm, inter alia: address the importance of globalisation for cultural and social policies from a Nordic perspective. The Government Communication mentions that the Council of Ministers has discussed policy guidelines for a new strategy plan for education and research for five years to come. I think the Nordic countries have a lot to pick up on cooperation in education and research. The student exchange programmes provide the basis for the Nordic identity to be given the necessary attention to new generations of young people who will increasingly apply to foreign educational institutions for all or part of their education. Similarly, closer research cooperation can also provide valuable impetus for research, while helping to strengthen Nordic cohesion. In Norway, we have chosen a three-tiered structure for the overall R & D effort for business through a distribution between universities/high schools, research institutes and industry themselves. Most other industrial nations, including Sweden, have chosen a two-tiered structure, with science and technology research being added to universities in an overall environment of close contact with industry. While Norwegian industry has strengthened its research share over the past few years, there is still a relatively small number of enterprises and enterprises that account for the main share of food-funded research. These companies represent good, solid companies. The problem is, they're so few. If Norway brings home more gold medals than Sweden and Finland from the Olympic Winter Games, we will be thoroughly beaten in return when it comes to R & D bets. The Swedish business life contributes by nearly 2 pst. of GDP to R & D, i.e. the double of what is invested in Norway. In Finland, research has been put at the top of the priority list both in terms of public budgets and in terms of business budgets. The 2000 budget, which is now under discussion in the United Kingdom, is one of the best research budgets in the 1990s. It gives hope for the future. Nevertheless, it is still a good thing before the objective is achieved, namely to arrive at the average of what OECD countries use for research. In fact, here we are facing a double challenge: both raising public R & D efforts and at the same time attracting Norwegian business more strongly into a R & D effort. I believe for my part that it is a lot of inspiration to pick up here for Norway in Nordic cooperation. The conscious investment in research, as we see it in Finland, will undoubtedly produce positive results for the value creation of that country. It is clear that Finns have understood that there will be a necessary ageing period from capital being made available for the research until the results can be harvested in the form of innovations, efficiency improvements and improvements in business as a basis for competitive value creation. Unfortunately, in Norway this patient capital is currently available to a more limited extent both in the public and private sectors. It must be a goal both for us as politicians and for the Norwegian business community in general to gain this patience and understanding that it will take time from betting to the results becoming visible. In 1998, the Nordic Committee of the Nordic Council examined a proposal for a Council of Ministers on a Nordic research policy strategy. The aim was to bring together Nordic R & D cooperation in an overall research policy strategy, introduce a systematic initiation process for R & D activities and introduce a new funding model. I do not know for my part how this has been followed up in practice. But I see clearly the possibility that, through such a common Nordic strategy, the Nordic countries, and not least Norway, can be inspired and motivated to learn the best of the experience in research strategy and the arrangement of the funds allocated to research in public budgets. The Committee points out in its comments that mobility programmes in the field of education and research are important instruments for the realisation of a well-functioning training and research community in the Nordic region. Then we need to set up so that new mobility in research cooperation in the Nordic countries does not lead to a disturbing imbalance in the exchange of research activity and talent, but that we can act as equivalent partners in an enhanced research network between the Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e182	Nor is Nordic cooperation unaffected by all the changes that have taken place in recent years, from the dissolution of the Soviet Union to neighbouring countries that inspire membership of different European organisations. The increasing degree of European integration, globalisation and regionalisation, which have so far been the subject of debate, all contribute to creating new challenges, political, economic and cultural. At many different levels, there are shifts that we need to go through both mentally and politically when we are reforming Nordic cooperation. The most recent expression of the changes has been illustrated by President Ahtisaari’s visit to Norway as the EU Presidency. This is an example of the fact that new European framework conditions create changes in the relationship between the Nordic countries, just a new example in the range of many that, in this context, Nordic politicians are also at the forefront of the EU relationship. Within Nordic cooperation, a number of new issues have also emerged in recent years. There is certainly also room for more gradually, not least it is gratifying that defence and security policies are now becoming increasingly intensely influential in the debate. This concerns both increased cooperation on peacekeeping operations and in more direct defence-related areas. Here it's definitely more to go on. Developments both in NATO and in the EU are forcing us here to have a common dialogue. It can be the only dialogue we actually get in the Nordic square with those who stand up for the EU's new and expanded security policy cooperation closer than Norway has chosen to do. Because it's true, as President Ahtisaari also said, we have chosen to stand outside ourselves. The development of the three dimensions of Nordic cooperation has been both correct and necessary: the traditional Nordic dimension based on historical and cultural common values, a neighbourhood dimension, where work towards the Baltic and North-West Russia is particularly important, and last but not least a European dimension, where three of the Nordic countries' membership of the EU is manifest and dominant. But it's an interesting forum for us non-members too, where we can hang out to some extent. One week before the 51st session in Stockholm, it is also natural to enter the budget for Nordic cooperation to be adopted. The requirement for so-called Nordic benefit must underpin the cooperation that is taking place. This applies both to cooperation under the auspices of the Nordic Council and the Council of Ministers. This means not only that cooperation should focus on what is important and useful to our Nordic citizens, but we should demand that the funds be used in a targeted and effective way. I'm not as concerned as the Government of highlighting the contradictions between the three dimensions that can be said to be reflected in today's Nordic cooperation, the Nordic neighbourhood dimension and the European dimension. Of course, we will take care of the Nordic cultural traditions, but there is no contradiction between coordinating Nordic efforts in the EU or involving our neighbourhoods more in Nordic cooperation as well. Rather, on the contrary, there is great Nordic benefit in coordinating our efforts in these areas. That is why I also believe that there is room for further priorities for cooperation with our close friends in the Baltic countries and in North-West Russia. The right has contributed through the Conservative Group of the Nordic Council to find room for additional priorities for close-up cooperation in the Nordic budget to be addressed at the session. There are many challenges and waiting, and there are no gaps in areas where we can cooperate more, both in information and contact activities, in democratic development, in environmental cooperation and perhaps in energy cooperation. The anchoring of Nordic cooperation is most common among people, not least through broad voluntary cooperation with a diversity of organisations. The importance of such voluntary efforts for civil society can hardly be measured in crowns. Some of the things that maybe in a positive way distinguish Nordic cooperation from other types of regional cooperation are precisely this popular anchoring and tradition. On several occasions, we have been concerned about and stressed the need for the Baltic countries to now have the opportunity to get closer to both NATO when they want it, and the EU when they obviously want it too. We, and perhaps in particular the Nordic countries that are members of these organisations, especially the EU, have been busy creating a room for the three Baltic countries to negotiate not least in parallel in time. But the question is – and there may be some paradoxes here – whether we are equally open to the Nordic Council being able to open up new members beyond the traditional Nordic region. The Icelandic President invited a few weeks ago to such a debate in conversation with the Latvian President. There's a debate I think there's a reason to take. If we do not dare to take the debate, it is a sign of weakness. It may be a sign that the Nordic Council has once again stagnated if we do not dare to take the challenge of such a debate. The answer to the challenge is not necessarily given. But I think it might be important to start work by creating room for further meeting places with broad participation by Nordic and Baltic parliamentarians. Common sessions started. In the case of joint committees and working groups, we are likely to encounter some greater resistance so far. The reform of Nordic cooperation that has taken place has now evidently worked positively for a few years, perhaps in everyone's opinion, except for the Progress Party. I note that the Progress Party believes that cooperation between governments is so positive that it does not therefore need a parliamentary ballast. It is a reasoning I do not fully understand, because I believe some of the reasons why this cooperation has developed positively is that there has been a balance between a parliamentary driving role – control role, to some extent initiator – and close and committed cooperation at the level of officials, the political level between governments. But again to the council. It is important to reform the Council which has made it more results-oriented. The Bureau now has the opportunity to sort things out, not everything has to be brought out, and you get priorities. Of course, the father is that you also use this access to stop matters before the council, to sort out everything that is controversial. So the majority can essentially determine whether proposals should be made or one at the session. It is a danger if we stop controversial debates, because the Nordic Council's ability to live and develop depends on more controversial issues being addressed in the Council. It reflects the Nordic parliamentary political situation, something else would be artificial. Finally, a few words about the theme that many have been discussing, the challenges of globalisation. This is perhaps an area where you have to say with respect that little happens on the Nordic level. We are now experiencing relatively tough competition between Nordic countries for tax, establishment and framework conditions in order to attract businesses. I have the starting point that free capital movements require a closer regional, not to say international, cooperation also on the framework conditions for capital. In the case of taxes, tax harmonisation levels, legislation applicable to financial institutions, etc. This is a theme high on the EU agenda – not full tax harmonisation, but obviously strong efforts to avoid free movement of capital leading to an unhindered competition for establishment between countries, creating so-called tax havens. At Nordic level, this is actually relatively short, and Nordic countries participate freely and freely in this competition. We register that when Nordic non-life insurance companies establish a single unit, representatives of the Norwegian owners agree that this company could never be established in Oslo, but in Stockholm, because there are better framework conditions. Sweden and Finland had a similar discussion when Merita Nordbanken was established as a joint company, because there were different framework conditions in Finland than in Sweden. Denmark operates an attraction of international and multinational companies based on very favourable tax conditions for its subsidiaries in relation to its parent companies and has had an impact on this, i.e. the establishment of some form of tax haven within the EU, but also in the Nordic region. In financial legislation and legislation in other areas, we have met in quite different cultures and traditions in the Nordic countries, and the integration of the Norwegian and Swedish telecommunications companies has also shown that harmonisation of legislation has actually come relatively short in this area. My conclusion to these observations is that harmonisation is needed in order to meet free international movements of capital, and a significant degree of transnationality is required. Even the EU has come short here, yet much longer. It takes place through very tough roofs and, in part, the use of transnational opportunities. In conclusion, the representative Steensnæs was concerned that we in Norway had to have more patient capital, private capital, and shows that this is probably the case. in our neighbouring country Sweden. I think that's a perfectly correct observation, but it lacks one historical perspective, and that's that if Wallenberg had existed in Norway, he would have paid more taxes. That's why he's in Sweden. Historically, of course, he's Swedish, but the capital, including the patient, moves gradually relatively easily, and moves where it's best, more patient it's not. So also in this area, it actually takes place – and has well taken place for many, many years – a competition between the Nordic countries to have conditions for patient national capital. That's why Sweden might also have more of it than us.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e217	When you hear Per-Kristian Foss’ posts, you just have to note the old, good thing that no matter what theme is on the agenda, tax is more important to the Right and that to the seventh and last comes down to. For SV it's not like that. On the other hand, we have something else that comes before Nordic cooperation, and that is the slogan of our own party, namely 'Children and young people first!'. And when I don't make any long posts here today on behalf of SV, it's because SV takes the slogan so seriously that our Vice President Øystein Djupedal, who is our member of the Nordic Council, has chosen to give priority to his newborn child over this noble assembly. And Djupedal Jr. has probably enjoyed it. That I was going to make some post instead of Øystein Djupedal would not make sense. It is better that this is a debate between informed people with experience from the Nordic Council than that I should make recordings from the sidebar. But I don't want to say in any way that SV doesn't focus on Nordic cooperation, it's done by the party in all our history, and so much so that our Vice President is our main figure on such questions. The two main points I want to mention, and which have been affected by almost everyone in the debate, are on the one hand that Nordic cooperation is incredibly important, it has done very, very much. When you look at it in the decades it's been, there's been an incredible amount of practical results out of it. On the other hand, it's obvious to everyone that you're at a junction now. The other Nordic countries emphasise their relationship with the EU more than Nordic cooperation, and for Norway, of course, the EU is also the overwhelming political phenomenon in Europe, and we need to re-examine how Nordic cooperation can be structured and organised so that it becomes effective in this new era and can produce new similar results in the decades to come. I don't have anything significant to report myself on how such an organisation of the Nordic Council can be carried out, but I think it's essential that those who are there constantly think about it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e230	Both the announcement by the Government and the decision of the Foreign Affairs Committee show that there is broad Nordic cooperation with broad political support. There is reason to rejoice over it, even though there may be something to consider that if there were any more conflicts, it would also have greatly increased the public interest in the work of the Nordic Council. As an extension of the work of the Nordic Council, we also have a Western Norse cooperation between Iceland, the Faeroe Islands and Greenland. In the western Nordic co-operation between these three countries, there are a number of issues that are also of Norwegian interest. It concerns common sea areas and common fisheries resources which are of particular importance in this context, but also the fact that Norway is in many ways closer to the Faeroe Islands and Iceland than the rest of the Nordic region in terms of language and culture. Much can be said that in Western Nordic cooperation there are a number of questions that we in Norway might want to pay more attention to than we have so far done, and that it could be right for the Norwegian delegation of the Nordic Council to follow up on that work somewhat more closely than has been done so far. As far as Nordic cooperation is concerned, in addition to the more internal Nordic cooperation, some have pointed out, there is also cooperation related to the neighbourhoods and relations with Europe, particularly the EU. I would essentially like to join the rapporteur's views on these two cooperation orientations, the neighbourhood and cooperation on European issues. In particular, I would like to highlight close-up cooperation as an important cooperation in a more direct security policy perspective. If we take a safety policy perspective, we have a more traditional safety policy, we have environmental safety issues and, in particular, we have health safety issues. It is also important to emphasise that developing living conditions in the neighbourhoods is important in the context of the perspectives I have mentioned here, both in terms of health and in terms of more traditional safety. Erik Solheim stressed in his post that SV prioritised children. Children have also been a priority in Nordic cooperation. This is the case both in the area cooperation and in the more direct Nordic cooperation. In December 1998, the conference ‘BARNforum’ was held in Stockholm, which focused on the situation of children in the neighbourhoods. It was very interesting to be present at that conference and get a closer look at the situation of children in the neighbourhoods as well as at parts of the work that has been carried out by the Nordic side in these areas. It is gratifying, as indicated in the notification and suspension, that the Council of Ministers has followed up this conference in retrospect. But also in the more direct Nordic cooperation, children have been central in recent times. In 1998, the Nordic Committee initiated an investigation into the situation of children in the Nordic region by appointing a working group. The working group gave its position in June this year, and the Nordic Committee has presented three proposals for the Stockholm session next week. What has been at the heart of this work has been addressing the situation of children in the Nordic region more generally and may not focus specifically on specific problem areas that may relate to the situation of children. In this context, the proposals put forward by these Members include, inter alia, the following: address the issue of the review of the legislation in the Nordic countries with a view to strengthening the situation of children. One of the appeals is that where there are differences, there should be a levelling off of the country that had to have the most favourable legislation. In this context, there is a point that the Children’s Convention is also focused and taken more seriously in different contexts, not least the fact that children should be heard on issues relating to individual children more individually, for example: in a case where parents are separated and there are questions about the child’s situation in relation to their two parents, but also about children more generally in the social context, such as: on the way in which children should be able to promote their views in relation to municipal matters. It is one of the questions that the proposal encourages countries to continue working on. I can mention that in Sweden, but also in Finland, there has been interesting experience of municipalities bringing up the Children's Convention and asking questions about how it can be better complied with in each municipality. In addition, Member proposals on bullying and the situation of children in scattered rural areas are also addressed. And that's probably all reason to expect that when a unanimous Nordic committee promotes these proposals, they will also be adopted by the session. Several have mentioned Nordic cooperation related to legislation, and it is also central to the notification and suspension. In particular, it is emphasised that the relationship with the EU and the EEA region means that Nordic legislative cooperation faces new challenges. I believe in this context that it may be a point to raise your eyes a little bit, from letting cooperation focus only on legislation alone, to also being concerned with what I might call the judicial cooperation between the Nordic countries in the wider sense. I was present at the Nordic Jurist's meeting here in Oslo in August this year, and it was throughout several of the speeches that were held there, that in a number of areas the break-up we are facing today from the Nordic side was highlighted in the meeting between a Nordic legal tradition and other legal traditions in Europe. And then there might be reason to stress that we're not just talking about another legal tradition, but we can talk about more legal traditions. And it could perhaps be a thought to address the issue after some years, when Sweden and Finland have also been members of the EU, if it could be relevant to strengthen Nordic judicial cooperation. Finally, there is reason to point out that Nordic cooperation works well. It was also highlighted by the representative of the minority in the Committee, the Progress Party. It's perhaps a little strange that when a cooperation works well, you're busy making changes in the breadth of this collaboration. And as Per-Kristian Foss pointed out, it could be that we also have broad parliamentary cooperation, which is precisely part of the strength of Nordic cooperation. And if you're concerned with rationality, there's no particular doubt that Norway works better in many contexts in the larger international cooperation because it has Nordic cooperation at the bottom, and that it also involves broader parliamentary cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e253	First, a comment to the representative of the Progress Party, Danielsen, who explains why they do not propose to close the Nordic Council, that there is no majority in this Chamber. My comment on this is that if there is to be the template and the justification for the proposals of the Progress Party hereafter, there will probably be few proposals and many comments. And that might be to the delight of many of us. But the Nordics play a role in the world around us, in our own neighbourhood, around the Baltic Sea and in the Barents region. We also have a strong commitment to Arctic cooperation. This is why, in recent years, the Council has given a greater and greater place to foreign policy and defence and security policies. In view of developments in the 1990s, the expanded concept of security is more relevant than ever. Security is no longer reserved for nation states and military alliances. Today, a large number of actors are involved in the game of security policy, both for good and for bad. Actors include religious groupings, non-governmental militias and non-governmental organisations. The picture is also more complicated on a subject-by-matter basis. Today, security policy challenges are far more than military and geopolitical issues. Security is also about dealing with serious environmental threats, about securing democracy and human rights, and about ensuring fair social and economic development. Therefore, safety must be built from below. The challenge lies in providing a comprehensive strategy covering the whole field, from democracy building to business development and social cohesion. We have a common cross-border challenge in the fight against organised crime, smuggling and economic crime. And we must avoid the social dumping and unfair distribution of modernising and economic development in Central and Eastern Europe. We need to take a joint responsibility to solve the dramatic environmental threats such as: end-of-life nuclear power plants represent. In almost all areas of society, we must contribute to the sustainability of emerging democracies and welfare societies. Only by building social structures, stone by stone, will conflicts be prevented and stable societies established. And it's only by seeing regional development as a whole and across national borders that such a project can succeed. The relationship with Russia is obviously important for the whole of the Nordic region. Involvement of Russia in a committed European cooperation must be maintained as an overall objective, despite or precisely because of the uncertainty we are experiencing today. The years of life are developing unevenly. There is a deep prosperity gap along the border between North-West Russia and the Nordic countries on the other side of the border. The forthcoming enlargement of the EU involves more changes than most of us are aware of today. A successful enlargement process will benefit stability in Europe and hopefully strengthen Europe's contribution to the world society. Without comparison, a large EU will become the most vital organisation for European foreign and security policy coordination and action. However, an EU made up of twenty member countries needs to rely on more extensive decentralisation and delegation. Some questions will be too big for the nation states, nor will they hear at home at a transnational level. Rather, they will belong to the natural field of action of regional cooperation organisations. I therefore believe it is important that security issues be brought even more clearly into the interparliamentary dialogue. The Nordic Council is such a forum. I have seen the position of the Foreign Affairs Committee that the Committee asks both the Government and the Nordic Council Delegation for a report on the new structure and working methods of the Council. To that end, we need a much clearer party foundation at the Nordic Council for the issues raised. This applies to all lots. We need an even better political foundation in the national parliaments for matters promoted in the Council. We need an even better follow-up to the decisions we make in the Council, both in relation to the Council of Ministers and also in relation to the national parliaments. We need to prioritise better, and we need to simplify. We have already set up within the Social Democratic Group of the Nordic Council a working group that will analyse and propose actions for a new Nordic Council. In this review, it is important to bear in mind that the Nordic Council is perhaps the most well-developed example in the world at a regional parliamentary joint body, and we have results to show. The Nordic Council is a forum where you can travel and solve problems that are, by their very nature, regional more than national. It is an arena of contact, exchange and coordination that, through a long history, has been with and established a common Nordic identity for ever-new generations of politicians. It gives strength in larger international contexts, which you can easily take for granted, but which can just as easily be lost. The Nordic Council provides a unique opportunity for contact and dialogue with the countries of our neighbourhoods through its extensive and sometimes hyperactive regional involvement. For example, if you are not Minister of State or Foreign Affairs, get closer and more personal contact with politicians from our Baltic, Russian and Polish neighbours than through a place in the Nordic Council. One of the best developments in the Council's activities is the mental transformation that members have undergone, from being representatives of their country to becoming representatives of their party. We're currently operating with party fractions in the samples, and not with fractions divided by geography. We need to redefine our own business. The 1990s have primarily been marked by the enormous internationalisation of the Nordic Council. Today we have three main committees under the Bureau, one of which is the European Committee and the other is the Subcommittee. Europe's issues and cooperation with Central and Eastern Europe are taking an increasing share of our attention and resource use. However, the organisation is dependent on and requires changes as a result of these developments. And then you have to ask the question, where are the limits of our commitment? And where does the balance go between the purely Nordic and our environment and Europe? Where's the limit going? We also have to discuss that. We have to put on the agenda: what now, Nordic Council? How do you prepare to become an international organisation in a highly regionalised Europe? It will be the main challenge for the Council’s further ‘fate’ towards its 50th anniversary in 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e286	St.meld. No 30 for 1998-99 on Nordic cooperation gives a picture of what five countries with close links to each other can do jointly in their region. There is hardly any area in which the Nordic countries do not have close cooperation, and let me mention here the cooperation that is taking place among researchers, cultural workers, in the administration, at the government level and at sea among parliamentarians. Not least, voluntary organisations are an important part of inter-people cooperation in the Nordic region. It is important to establish this, because these close links exist despite our different links with the two most important international organisations in our part of the world, the EU and NATO. The predictions of the European Union in 1994 that only within the EU could Nordic cooperation develop have not been answered. In the same way as Iceland and Norway cooperate closely with EU countries through the EEA Agreement, Sweden and Finland cooperate with NATO. There may be a need, first and foremost, for neighbouring countries to lift and tackle problems and challenges in cooperation with each other, which means that Nordic cooperation is growing in all areas, both within and outside the formal framework set by the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers. For formal Nordic cooperation, the core areas of work for children and young people and cooperation on environment, research and culture are: Of particular importance within traditional cooperation is perhaps the work to clear the way for the last remaining border barriers for Nordic citizens who will work in one of the neighbouring countries. There are still obstacles in many areas. Nordic cooperation is pragmatic and therefore changes its character as we develop our cooperation needs. In addition to the traditional core areas, cooperation on European issues and our neighbourhoods has now emerged, as mentioned earlier in the debate. On European issues, mutual information and exchange are on the agenda of all meetings, to a great extent not least for us and Iceland, which are outside the EU. The value of these contacts should not be underestimated. In my view, it is doubtful whether they would have gotten such an amount if we had not had the formal Nordic cooperation as a binding framework. In the neighbourhoods, Nordic cooperation now includes North-West Russia, the Baltic and Kaliningrad. This work takes approx. 20 pst. by the budget of the Nordic Council of Ministers, and represents an important contribution to the protection of Norwegian interests by building up under a further democratic development of society in a number of key areas. In particular, environmental cooperation is in our interest to combat cross-border pollution of the sea and air. But it's not just to the east that we can use Nordic cooperation to promote our interests beyond the traditional limits of Nordic cooperation. As you know, the 1999 Icelandic Presidency has presented a ‘People and Seas in the North’ programme with ideas on how to develop links to the scattered Arctic and western Nordic regions. There are clear common interests between Norway, Iceland, Greenland and the Faeroe Islands, as the representative of Hove said. I would like to mention, in particular, cooperation on the environment, marine research and resources in the western Nordic regions. It will be important for Norway to have a conscious view on how cooperation in the neighbourhoods will develop further. For example, Norway has: proposed to increase the budget of the Nordic Council of Ministers to take account of the important tasks assigned to us by the neighbourhoods, without full agreement from all Nordic countries. It is difficult to see how the work of the Nordic Council of Ministers in the neighbourhoods can be further developed without more money. In my view, it is in our neighbourhoods that Nordic cooperation will develop primarily in the years to come, both because the Nordic countries have strong interests in the positive and sustainable development of societies, the environment and resources, and because we have the opportunity to make important contributions. This does not apply only to the eastern neighbourhoods formerly under Soviet influence. Not least in the Arctic, it is important to develop new cooperation patterns to save the environment in these particularly vulnerable areas. For Norway, with our fishing and fishing traditions in these areas, sustainable development also means being able to continue to reap the profits of natural, renewable resources. As we all know, this requires effective cooperation on the management of these resources between the participating countries. The attitude of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is a clear expression of the broad political consensus it is to develop Nordic cooperation in the light of the challenges that cooperation will face.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e313	The Swedish Government’s delegation to the Nordic Council has asked the Government to explain the follow-up to the Barents Cooperation and Baltic Sea Cooperation. First Parliamentary Conference of Barents Cooperation in Alta 7-9. April this year is an important milestone. There, six-year-old cooperation between central and local authorities, businesses and people got most of their parliamentary anchoring. Since it was established in 1993, the Barents Council has been an important tool in our relationship with Russia. Through this cooperation, transparency and trust have been created, which are fundamental prerequisites for practical and targeted work in this region. At the same time, we have seen that the challenges in the north can only be solved through long-term efforts. We've learned that we also need to involve countries and institutions outside the region. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has an ongoing dialogue with the Nordic county authorities on relevant issues in Barents cooperation. I'm impressed by the strong commitment on the local level. This commitment is important and is a fundamental pillar of Barents Cooperation. Barn cooperation requires us to set aside financial resources. Much can be achieved through increased coordination of the different regional instruments currently available. This is particularly true in relation to EU regional programmes, to which the Alta conference pointed. The energy sector is at the heart of our commitment both in the Barents region and in the Baltic region. Better use of resources and a sustainable regional energy system are essential to strengthen the economic development of the area. Stable energy access is also an important contribution to long-term political stability. Among other things, we have contributed to energy savings and wind energy efficiency projects. Norway has now chaired environmental cooperation in the Barents Council. We are working on a cross-sectoral approach, with the so-called Local Agenda 21 programme as umbrella. We also want to focus on actively involving the EU. We want to contribute to the creation of voluntary environmental protection organisations and to stimulate the development of municipalities for municipal cooperation. Furthermore, we will place great emphasis on the conservation of biodiversity. Increased nuclear safety in North-West Russia remains a major field of action. We are engaged in a wide range of concrete projects for the storage, transport and treatment of nuclear waste. As an example, I can mention the Norwegian-Russian plant in Severodvinsk for liquid radioactive waste, which was opened in September this year. The challenges of nuclear safety in North-West Russia are enormous. Wide international cooperation is necessary and therefore the multilateral declaration on this matter signed in Alta is so important. We therefore place great emphasis on involving other countries and the European Commission in this work. Since the launch of Barents’ cooperation in 1993, we have been committed to facilitating increased economic cooperation in the region. These are the little steps, but the results are going in the right direction. It is both difficult and time consuming to speed up economic cooperation with North-West Russia. Here we must be patient and have a long-term strategy. In recent years, we have seen a serious deterioration in the health situation in this area. To reverse this trend, the Bodø Barents Council adopted a separate health cooperation programme for the period 1999-2002 in March this year. There is a strong interest in Norwegian health settings to participate in concrete projects. Youth and education initiatives are also important for the sustainable development of the Barents region. An overall objective is to ensure that students and researchers in the region can make the best use of the grant schemes already available from the Nordic countries, from the Nordic Council of Ministers and from the EU system. In the spring of 1999, the Barents Council set up a working group on more effective follow-up to work in the field of youth policy. The activities of the Barents Council are also geared towards the indigenous peoples of the region and their culture, lifestyle and business. However, an overall programme for the indigenous dimension has been missing. We're now getting this into the new Barents program. Increased emphasis needs to be placed on improving the position of women in North-West Russia, among others. so that they can be more involved in politics. We have therefore initiated a women's conference in Murmansk in April next year. As the Stortinget will be familiar with, Norway has this year chaired the Baltic Sea Council. In this connection, I was delighted to attend the Parliamentary Baltic Sea Conference in Mariehamn in September of this year, where I presented the Norwegian Presidency Programme. The work of the Baltic Sea Council and other regional bodies is an important instrument of Norwegian foreign policy, not least in relation to relations with Russia. It contributes to the security and stability of our key neighbourhoods. I have great faith that such regional bodies will become more important in the years to come, as forums for political dialogue and concrete cooperation. However, there is a need to demonstrate the importance of the Baltic Sea Council for most people. As President, I would therefore like to place great emphasis on achieving concrete results in areas where the citizens of the Member States can see them. Norwegian Presidency main fields of action are democracy construction and border regional cooperation, energy, economic cooperation and civil security. Of course, the EU's work on the development of a northern dimension will be central. At the Ministerial Conference on the Northern Dimension in Helsinki next week, I would like to stress that the importance of the Baltic Sea Council and the Barents Council is precisely that they cover all countries that are geographically covered by the northern dimension. They will therefore be able to play an important role in the implementation and further development of this cooperation, as underlined in the resolution of the Parliamentary Conference. As part of the work on democratic development, the Baltic Sea Council contributes to the building of democratic structures both in the administration and in various organisations in the region. Here the work of strengthening local democracy is central. In addition, Norway will give priority to subregional and cross-border cooperation. Here we will draw on the experience of the Barents Council. I have great faith in people for people-cooperation at all levels. Norway is among others: active involvement in projects related to relations between the Baltic countries and Russia. One of the main points of the Parliamentary Conference resolution concerns energy, and a separate Energy Ministerial meeting between the Baltic countries was held on 25 October this year. The resolution of the Conference of Members of Parliament will be included as one of the background documents for further work. The work on the environmental proposals mentioned in the resolution will also continue. We aim to use the Baltic Sea region as a test area for the implementation of the Kyoto agreement on greenhouse gases. The need to establish a stable framework for trade and industry will be central to the Norwegian Presidency and to prepare for a trade ministerial meeting in Bergen in February next year. The aim is to reach agreement on concrete measures contributing to increased trade and investment levels. Uncertainty about the business environment has been a particular problem for small and medium-sized enterprises. Parliamentary cooperation between the Baltic countries is becoming increasingly widespread in regional cooperation. The objective is security, stability and sustainable development. The work of the Conference of Members of Parliament and the proposals presented in the resolution will be important premises for further cooperation. As in Mariehamn, Norway will take an active part in this cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e364	Area cooperation at the Nordic Council has been further developed in 1998-99. The programmes in this field currently amount to about 20 pst. by the total budget of the Council of Ministers and includes measures primarily in the Baltic countries, but also in North-West Russia and the Arctic. The Faroe Islands have raised questions as to whether not the near-area programme should be extended westwards to include project work, among other things. Shetland Islands, Orknæ Islands, Hebrides, Ireland and the Canadian Northwest Provinces. The efforts in the Barents region and the Baltic region must be seen as two sides of the same coin. To date, the work of the Council of Ministers has been largely directed towards the Baltic Sea region. It is very important from Norway to focus on the Barents region and the northern dimension of this cooperation. The border between the Nordic countries and the Russian Federation represents one of the world's largest welfare gap economically, and this is a major challenge for the whole region. Closer cooperation has been provided with more resources, and this has resulted in increased funds for cooperation between Russia and the Nordic countries. In my view, this is a proper priority and a priority that is particularly important for Norway and Finland, which have borders with Russia. Addressing these problems is really addressing work on the northern dimension of Europe. The first Barents Parliamentary Conference in Alta was an important step towards clarifying Barents' cooperation in Nordic context. The project activities of the neighbourhood programme of the Nordic Council of Ministers shall also promote democratisation, welfare, cultural dissemination, sustainable environment and resource use in the Barents region, as well as transition to market economy. The women’s meeting prior to the conference and the conference itself provided useful input for further cooperation in the Barents region. In this context, the Christian People's Party has been particularly concerned with the role of women in the major challenges facing Russian society. Many factors indicate that it is right to target project funding against women and women’s organisations in order to achieve objectives such as well-being, health and democratisation. Women make up a large proportion of those living below the poverty line in Russia, while women in Russia generally have high levels of education. Russian women thus constitute a major development resource in the form of will, enthusiasm and knowledge. Today, they bear the greatest burden of the fact that the Russian state apparatus has major migration problems and is unable to fulfil its obligations in terms of paying wages and maintaining basic welfare functions. Russian women need to be more focused in Barents' cooperation and in prioritising project funding in the Nordic context. The same arguments for women-oriented assistance to developing countries can be widely used to argue for a stronger targeting of Nordic project funds against women in neighbourhoods. Such a commitment must be in parallel with the major and vital environmental projects in Kola and, at the same time, with efforts to develop food and trade cooperation in the Barents region. In all this work, great patience needs to be exercised, and long-term work needs to be done. Creating a positive development in this region is of major safety and environmental importance for the whole of the Nordic region. The Barents region represents one of the most important pollution problems of our time, but is also Europe's largest dining room. At the Reykjavik Women’s Conference in October this fall, major delegations from Russia and the Baltic countries met. The assembly was unmistakably in favour of using network credit as a tool to reach unmiddled women. The task of implementing this in the Russian neighbourhood is the most difficult part of the work. In the Nordic Council's neighbourhood committee, there is a proposal to start work on finding a model for this, as well as partners on the Russian side. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his speech, the Norwegian Government will organise a business conference for women in Murmansk until next year to focus on this important topic. The Russian women need drag help to get this on the agenda in their own country. Since 1999, Arctic cooperation has been part of the Council of Ministers' neighbourhood programme. First and foremost, tasks that can best be solved within a Nordic cooperation community. This concerns in particular issues related to indigenous peoples, living conditions, health, the environment and polar research. The Christian People's Party also believes it is important in this work to focus women's lives and women's resources, and to target work against women's organisations. We know that the pollution in the Arctic requires changes in traditional diets and eating habits. For several of the indigenous populations, this represents a threat to culture and tradition. To contribute to their own constructive work on these major issues must be a priority work on the Nordic side. The Northern Council's neighbourhood programme represents an important and visible part of Nordic cooperation for the population. The programme is very much in favour of giving Nordic cooperation new legitimacy in a rapidly changing Europe. Work on channelling projects and resources through non-governmental organisations is important and must not be weakened.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e392	In the 1998 Annual Report of the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers, the environmental issue of the year was «We can – do we?». We can now say in retrospect that the process so far shows that we both want and can. But we have to be conscious in every step to achieve the goals we've set ourselves. The speeding up of the implementation of a system of Nordic environmental accounts and systems to ensure that the common Nordic electricity market is better harnessed by the electricity and energy production of the Nordic countries, thereby minimising CO2 emissions, is a challenging task, especially if we look at the reality we are in the middle of. There is a lot of talk in this process about reducing energy consumption. But if we look at reality, we have an annual growth in electricity consumption not only here in Norway, but in the Nordic countries about. 3.5 pst. If we look at the ability of politicians to create framework conditions to increase the productive capacity of the same systems, we see the outlines of how we can do that. 0.5 pst. What has happened in the Nordic Council, and where do we stand? What we have decided in so-called recommendations is that by 2001 we will have implemented measures in the Nordic electricity market to introduce a uniform system at which environmental costs are priced at the production stage, and that by 2001 a Nordic Energy Environmental Account will be established as a tool for achieving environmental benefits through the optimal use of energy sources in each country with the aim of limiting environmentally harmful emissions. This might sound, for those who come with it, easy, but we're going right into the framework conditions that it's easy to talk about, but very demanding to get in place. So if we look at something as simple as setting up a Nordic environmental account, we're facing the big challenge of getting a common reality in relation to the problems we're facing on the environment and energy side. We experience in every debate, even here in Stortinget, that reality is breaking. If we look at the reality that we can record in the other Nordic countries, the behaviour there is very similar, but we have taken the aim of producing a coherent Nordic environmental account, which should not be something that should stand in the eye, but that should follow the decisions of the Nordic countries' parliaments. In addition to this, we have a recommendation in Stockholm in a week's time, saying that in establishing a common system for pricing environmental costs in the production of electricity, a common system for trading CO2 allowances, and that when a Nordic quota system is established, i.e. when we have come to the point where we have managed to create a quota system that can work in the extremely rich Nordic region, we must work to include other countries in the Baltic region in such a market. If we look at our working arrangements and cooperate with the Nordic Council of Ministers in this very demanding area, it is very visible to me that we are referring to the report on the evaluation of the Nordic environmental strategy for the period 1996-2000. That evaluation is ongoing, and I myself have been given the opportunity to attend meetings in Copenhagen in that context. What has been worrying is that the environmental strategy that the Council of Ministers has been pursuing for a few years is, to a small extent, rooted in the issues that we, as parliamentarians, are putting high on the agenda in our work. In that case, when the Council of Ministers adopts a strategy on its own, it is likely that the Council of Ministers will, for its part, be able to show good results. But something particularly focused on the challenges we face as parliamentarians is not going to be, to put it nicely. The current evaluation report contains a small section from which I would like to refer, because it focuses on the importance of dialogue with parliamentarians. It says: «A closer dialogue should be established with parliamentarians, first and foremost in the Nordic Council, but also at national level. The dialogue should be conducted on the overall strategy for a sustainable Nordic region, on the rolling 3 years environmental strategy and on the corresponding plans of the sectors.’.» It is also specifically proposed in this report – which is therefore a report by some people, and not a political decision so far – that: 'A cooperation mechanism with the Nordic Council of Ministers is being set up, including: may discuss the implementation of the sustainability strategy and the annual review of the rolling 3 year environmental strategy, including the results achieved. For example, the cooperation mechanism could: have the form of an advisory parliamentary committee on the environment and sustainability.’ I'm not going to say that this is exactly what we're going to put on at the seventh and last. But what these small sections show is that the way the Council of Ministers – and the Nordic Council for that matter, because we also have a joint responsibility – has worked so far has been to see documents without taking seriously what they say. So it starts a very costly process, which has little purpose and meaning in relation to the decisions we are facing in each Nordic country. So we have a lot to gain by being more decisive and results-oriented. The production of reports and more paper, including Einar Steensnæs, should be possible elsewhere than using the money and time of the Nordic Council and Council of Ministers. If we could manage to get over that knee, we'd put new, good leadership in relation to the practical tasks we're going to solve at the Nordic Council.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e420	The Nordic Council is engaged in three regional cooperation processes: Barents Cooperation, Baltic Sea Cooperation and Arctic Cooperation. At the same time, the Council has a commitment to the Finnish initiative for a northern dimension in the EU, a dimension which, after all, embraces all these regional processes. Norwegian authorities have naturally addressed the challenges of the Barents region. The fall of the Iron Curtain and its eastern opening made it possible to resume a wider contact with our neighbours in Russia. This area holds enormous opportunities, with rich resources in fish, minerals, forests and probably petroleum. But there are also enormous challenges, with significant social and welfare problems, and not least pressures and threats to the environment, which are among the biggest environmental challenges in the world. Barn cooperation provided an arena to develop a community in the area and to develop a common commitment to solving the challenges and triggering opportunities in the region. In my opinion, the cooperation has been at least four dimensions: a security dimension in which, through mutual trust, we build the common security environmental dimension in which we focus our search for the enormous challenges, not least as regards nuclear safety and the storage of nuclear waste, the development dimension, where, through economic development, we facilitate the welfare enhancement of the dimension of democracy, where the interaction between the new democracy in Russia and the established Western democracies can consolidate democracy in Russia. The Barents Cooperation has two pillars: cooperation at government level in the contacts between government representatives in the Barents Council, and a unique regional dimension in the contact between regional representatives and the indigenous peoples of the Regional Council. This is what it's important to build on. Regional cooperation gives direct contact between people living close to each other, who undoubtedly seem to be stabilising and developing. At the same time, cooperation has lacked a parliamentary dimension. It is important that parliamentarians be involved, not instead of existing cooperation, but in addition to it. It is important that parliamentarians also participate in the promotion of the idea and vision behind cooperation. And it is now time for the national parliaments to adopt the budgets that make resources available for cooperation and adopt the laws that lay down the framework conditions for cooperation. I think, unfortunately, that we have to establish that cooperation in the Barents region has been less focused in the Nordic Council than in the other regional processes. I think that's three explanations. First, there is a slightly different emphasis between different countries on the different processes. Secondly, the challenges are, for example: in the Baltic Sea region, more transparent and easier to deal with than the enormous dimensions that characterise the challenges in North-West Russia. Thirdly, there has been a lack of a parliamentary dimension, a parliamentary channel in the Barents region. It was therefore very important that the President of the Norwegian Grand Duchy, together with the then President of the Nordic Council, presented a parliamentary conference for the Barents region in Alta in April. This conference did not give such a similar parliamentary organisation as we see in the Baltic Sea cooperation, although in my view it must be the long-term objective that the Nordic Council's involvement in these processes should be treated equally. In the same way, it gave a parliamentary channel. The conference adopted a comprehensive final communiqué, marking the willingness to address and contribute to addressing the challenges in the region. At the same time, the Nordic Council neighbourhood committee, in close cooperation with the Barents Regional Council and with representatives of relevant Russian elected bodies, was asked to follow up the recommendations. Most of the themes raised in the communication are under work. The Foreign Minister has explained to many of them here today. Parliamentarians must naturally help to stimulate, speed up and monitor this work. At the same time, we must ask how, as parliamentarians, we can give cooperation an additional dimension beyond what is happening today in the Barents Council and the Regional Council. Let me point to four ratios. Firstly, of course, the involvement of parliamentarians and their contact could contribute to facilitating the cooperation of governments – simply because any government needs political support in order to make its policy effective. The second is that parliaments are naturally at the heart of democracy in each country. Parliamentarians will therefore be able to strengthen the development of democracy both in general and by establishing a contact between, inter alia, the Member States. women parliamentarians, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out, with a view to achieving real equality and between young parliamentarians. The third is the exchange of experience and competence. It is necessary to focus on the obstacles limiting international trade and investment in North-West Russia. An important reason for this is lack of legal protection for investments, lack of long-term legislation, tax, tax and customs rules and frequent changes to them. However, legislation and taxation are precisely among the core areas of Parliament. We must therefore ask how Nordic parliamentarians can help to give Russian parliamentarians a broader basis for making decisions that promote necessary investment. And fourthly, we know what needs to be done to solve the environmental challenges in North-West Russia. We know pretty much what it takes to expand the infrastructure. We know pretty much what needs to be done to create economic development. We know what needs to be done to strengthen the provision of well-being. But the basic problem is the lack of funding. The question is then whether, as parliamentarians, we can help to focus on the financing challenges of bringing together international capital and parliamentarians as advocating powers in the country in question. And not least: Barent cooperation is not just Russia, Finland, Sweden and Norway. Barent cooperation is also made up of other Nordic countries, the EU — most EU countries, by the United States, by Japan, to name a few. Can Nordic parliamentarians then help to create stronger involvement in cooperation and stronger commitments for a broad international commitment to financing the necessary strategic projects by contacting parliamentarians in the European Parliament, the German Bundestag, the French Parliament, the US Congress or the Japanese Parliament? Can we create a parliamentary opinion that pushes governments to contribute to such funding of strategic projects, which is absolutely fundamental if we are to achieve the necessary clean-up and development? In my view, we must have the ambition to be able to use this parliamentary channel actively. But then we have to do things something different than what might be the tradition of the Nordic Council. Perhaps we can also contribute to the vitalisation of the Nordic Council. Both parts should be in Norwegian interest.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e467	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 391]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e483	Never in human history have so many people over so short a period of time undergone such rapid economic development as over large parts of Asia in recent decades. Asia's share of the world economy is three times as large today as it was back in 1970. Japan is the second largest economy in the world. China is probably the second largest economy in the world when you see it in terms of purchasing power. If you just go back to the year 1960, the life expectancy for an Asian was 20 years shorter than it is today. In other words, there can be no doubt that we are on our way into a future where Asia plays a much bigger role than it has done in recent decades. It will be a long way to go to bring us back to Earth's normal time. Throughout the history of mankind, China has been the most advanced area on any scale: cultural, economic, military – however one may choose to measure it. As late as the year 1820, China and India stood together for half of Earth's economic potential or development. I'm not going to spend more time justifying why Asia is becoming more important, but rather trying to look at the consequences of it, starting with Norway sleeping an hour. I've had the opportunity to meet a series of Asian heads of state in the last few years. As a representative of the population of small Norway, the President of Korea, the Prime Minister of Cambodia and the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Indonesia are welcome, just to name a few. There's a lot of reasons for this. It's that we're economically rich, that's that we're distributing the Nobel Peace Prize, and that's perhaps the most important thing about our Middle East diplomacy. But if we turn this around, when Asian politicians come to Norway, we don't have time to accept them. Our Minister of Industry did not have time to accept the Minister of Technology in the fourth largest country in the world, Indonesia. The Minister of Economic Affairs even stated on one occasion that why the Norwegian business world was going to sell to Japan, it was so terribly far away. I could spend a long, long time showing examples of central Asian politicians who have been visiting Norway without hardly having time to meet them. – We are, as we know, a real power force, while, for example, we are. India is a boneless country. Now this is not said to hang out Norwegian politicians, but I think much the same applies in other areas of society, that we didn't say how important Asia is becoming, and that it's a very important task to teach Norwegian society this. We've had an Asia plan in Norway in the 1990s. As I see it, there were two errors with it, but it was also very correct. One mistake was that it was almost exclusively an economic Asia plan. It was about investment and economic cooperation without seeing this in the context of culture, education, human rights, knowledge-building – that is, the whole of an Asia strategy. The other was that it was Gro Harlem Brundtland's personal work, it was she who was the engine and the commitment behind it, and when she disappeared, there was no one to carry on that commitment. Sweden has now developed a comprehensive Asia strategy – there are very difficult documents, of course many words, but it is also an attempt to distort the whole of Swedish society, all areas from secondary schools to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in order to understand Asia’s wider importance. We need something similar here. Let me mention some elements of what such an Asia strategy should contain. The first and most important is knowledge building. Only if we know something, and then I mean all parts of Norwegian society, only then we're interesting partners in a dialogue, only then we'll be able to have reasonable economic and intellectual cooperation with Asia. This means that language training needs to be strengthened. We can no longer just be a society where we can Norwegian and pretty good English, but where we hardly have people who know other languages. There are very few in Norway who know Chinese, Japanese, Korean or Hindi, for now just to mention someone. Language training in all these areas needs to be strengthened, so that we have people who can be this bridge to Asian communities. I think the immigrant communities in Norway can often be where to pick up people who can do such language training. In the Swedish Asia strategy, it is revealed that only 1 pst. by Swedish students studying abroad, studying in Asian countries. There is every reason to believe that the figure is not higher for Norway. It has to change. Asian subjects need to get into the research, and they need to get into the school and university syllabus. It can no longer be the way it was when I was studying history, that what was called world history, was really just the story of four European powers and a little bit about the United States in the last couple of hundred years. Unfortunately, there's too much of it still. In other words, we need to equip the entire Norwegian community, from our foreign service through our business life to the whole population, to understand Asia better. If we don't, we'll never be able to go into a future where Asia plays a bigger role. The second element of an Asia strategy is the economic one. In recent decades, trade and investment have proved to be the keys to bringing people out of poverty. We have – also on the left – been too afraid of trade and investment. Without trade and investment, there will be no economic future. In other words, it is an important task to get Norwegian business to invest in Asia. Not that every investment is good. You have to have a critical look, and you need institutions like NorWatch, which is monitoring our business life, but we need investment. So now the situation is that in the last two years Norwegian investment in China and India is so few that they don't even like the statistics. Only if there are more than three companies that invest can you include it in the statistics, so that it doesn't get too corporate and personal. So now we don't even see Norwegian investment in statistics, so they're very few, and they're significantly smaller than our Nordic neighbouring country. This cannot continue, because economic cooperation is also a driving force, of course, for standard of living, but also for all other aspects of political cooperation. This is also stupid for us: a Japanese tourist in Norway spends 5 000 kroner a day, a German tourist in Norway leaves about 50 000 kroner a day. $800 a day. So it's not so stupid to go some Japanese to Norway, if we just think about the wallet. The Norwegian salmon sale to Japan last year is NOK 3 billion, and that's good, but this is the simple form of cooperation, not the kind of cooperation we need a lot more, namely investment and direct financial commitment. This must be part of an Asia strategy. Then a third Asia strategy must be based on the fact that some of the most dangerous conflict areas on Earth are in Asia. As I see it, the three places where it is most likely that nuclear weapons can be used and most likely that major powers can be drawn into conflicts, all in Asia. It's Kashmir, it's Korea, and it's Taiwan. This means that having an alert eye and entering into political dialogue to provide the very small contribution Norway can make — it is small, but it is — to resolve these conflicts is crucial. In addition, there is a series of other conflicts in Asia that probably do not have the potential for a nuclear power conflict and nuclear weapons, but that are terrible for the people involved, in Burma, Aceh, Afghanistan, Sri Lanka and Assam, to mention someone. Many of these conflicts also mean an incredible number of killed people, without really paying attention to it. In Sri Lanka, the last few days were probably killed against 1,000 people in conflicts on the northern part of the island, and I don't think it's even been registered in Norwegian media, barely enough in Western media at all. The most important bilateral relationship in world policy is between China and the United States. Only if the major powers are united in resolving these conflicts, and only if Norway contributes to it, can they be resolved. This imposes a lot on us. It requires the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Foreign Affairs to adopt a more active approach to political dialogue with Asian countries. Some positives are made. For example, Thailand is part of the Lysøen cooperation, very concrete and positive, and it also imposes on the Storting a consideration of this. To be completely honest, completely realistic, we in the Grand Duchy have now, over 20 years, treated the interparliamentary union as something that has no prestige and status at all, it is something that you really don't take seriously in the Grand Duchy, while it is taken seriously by completely central politicians in almost all Asian countries. Every time you visit parliamentary presidents or central politicians almost everywhere in Asia, they talk about the next time they go to the interparliamentary union. It will be a place for us to create the personal contacts that are also crucial for cooperation, and the Stortinget must now start taking the IPU seriously. This is of course a self-criticism as much as a criticism by someone else. Fourth, of course, we have to look at the possibilities for democratic development, which is obviously a positive trend in almost all of East Asia. The last was Indonesia's democratic breakthrough in the new democratic government that was established 14 days ago. Norwegian assistance needs to be more used to support the democratic development of Asian countries. I do not share the view of the Minister of Aid that we should have as a dogma for Norwegian aid at 50 pst. to go to Africa at all times. It must be up to a more concrete assessment from time to time. And then the environment is a crucial point. Without environmental improvement in Asian countries, there is no better environment on the globe as a whole. In short, what I'm looking for is that Norway should do the same thing as Sweden; create an overall strategy for how in the age of globalisation we don't face globalisation with fear, not shut us in ourselves, but open Norway up to the great opportunities that are there, and that we open up a much more direct dialogue with Asia at all levels of society.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e524	Asian countries play a major and increasing role in international society. I agree with Mr Solheim's description of Asia's role. At the same time, it is important to stress that Asia does not constitute a homogeneous entity — whether political, economic or cultural. Asia’s regions and countries are very different. We face different challenges in our relationship with countries in South Asia, Southeast Asia and East Asia. In my view, it is therefore not appropriate to establish a coherent Asia strategy. However, what is appropriate and necessary is an ongoing analysis of Norwegian interests and needs. In addition, we need to keep considering how best to support economic, social and political development in Asia. This includes the deliberate choice of areas of activity and instruments in relation to individual countries. India, China and Japan are so important in the international context that we need to develop our own country strategies for our relationship with them. Nepal, Bangladesh and East Timor represent development challenges for Norway. In 1994, the then government launched an Asia plan, which received broad political support. The plan had a high level of ambition and was a strategic effort by the Government to develop political, economic and cultural cooperation with Asia. Through a number of high-profile visits to Asian countries and active involvement of a number of actors in Norway, the Asia Plan received a lot of attention. I do not share the opinion of the representative Solheim that the Asia plan has been hidden. The plan was evaluated in spring, an evaluation that was the subject of a comprehensive consultation round. The review showed, for example: that our activities were given their main focus on the business side. Specific activities were less developed in terms of political dialogue and cultural cooperation. Some of the reasons for this are precisely the heterogeneous situation of countries. At the same time, we should not ignore the fact that the Asia crisis also had its effect. However, the Asia Plan has had positive effects. It has prepared and structured our thinking in this area. It has helped raise awareness and knowledge of Asia in Norway and has given positive attention to Norway in Asia. The plan has also helped to strengthen cooperation between different parts of public administration, business and academic institutions, although I agree with Solheim's representative that this is not good enough. The government emphasises the further development of Norway’s relationship with the Asian countries. This concerns political issues, development and environmental cooperation, cooperation on democracy development and human rights, cultural cooperation and contacts between civil society and research communities, as well as Norwegian exports and investments. Within this general framework, we will need to concreteise cooperation with individual countries in priority sectors, which will vary greatly depending on the country we are discussing. Japan is in a special position and requires its own commitment. The new government of South Korea also represents a positive contribution to the democratic forces of the region. We will develop cooperation with this country as well. Norway has gradually developed broad cooperation with China, both politically, economically and culturally. China is of great importance in Norwegian trade and investment, although we are not in the latest statistics. At the same time, it is one of the countries with which we have cooperated most on the development of a dialogue on human rights. Environmental issues are also high on the agenda for China-Norway relations. However, there is still room for greater breadth and deepening of cooperation, and that the Government will follow up. In this connection, I can inform you that a visit is now being prepared for the Prime Minister of Japan, South Korea and China next autumn. India is another Asian major act, both security policy, economic and demographic. India was Norway's first aid country. As a result, Norwegian businesses have taken a greater interest in the country, although there is also much to be desired in the future, as the representative of Solheim is concerned. More recently, cooperation on technology, trade, investment and the environment has been given a somewhat more central place. The government wants a development of the relationship with India, following the pattern of the widely established cooperation that we have established with China. India is a regional power with which it is important to have a continuous dialogue. I'm planning a visit to the country early next year. Indonesia, the world's largest Muslim country, is in the midst of a comprehensive reform process, both political and economic. This process was initiated when President Soeharto was forced to resign in May last year. We need to exploit the opportunities that are now opening up to intensify cooperation with this country. It is very important to support the new government. Positive developments in Indonesia will have an impact on the whole region. The government will therefore look at how we can best give our support to the new authorities in Jakarta. The government is further concerned with regional cooperation between Asian countries, not least cooperation between the countries of Southeast Asia – ASEAN. The organisation played an important role in the crisis in East Timor at the latest. Among other things, we have close contact with Thailand, which has currently chaired ASEAN and which, as the representative Solheim mentioned, cooperates in the Lysøen Group. We will follow up on this cooperation. The government is now assessing how our relationship with the Asian countries should continue. We focus on having a systematic and planned approach, with concentration in individual countries. Policy, economic and cultural instruments will be seen in the context. Contacts between academic institutions and civil society in Norway and in Asian countries will also be central. The prerequisites and framework conditions for our relationship with Asia are different today than when the original Asia plan was formulated. The financial and economic crisis in parts of the region has changed the business environment in the short and medium term. One example of this is Indonesia, which was one of the most important bet countries in the first phase of the Asia plan. In parallel with the economic crisis in Asia, important changes have also taken place in a number of countries. But the development towards more democracy is not unambiguous or without setback, as we saw an example recently when the military seized the power of Pakistan. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has followed the work of the Swedish Asia strategy and has had close contact with the Swedish Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In March this year, a major seminar was held in Oslo on the experience of the Norwegian Asia Plan and the Swedish strategy. The plans for the Swedish Asia strategy were designed before the Asia crisis. In addition, Sweden’s relations with the Asian countries, not least in terms of exports and investments, are significantly greater than in the case of Norway. However, although the starting point is different, there are elements in the Swedish scheme that we aim to make use of in our work as well. These include: important with a comprehensive dialogue with different professional environments and interest groups in the Norwegian community that can contribute to a renewed commitment to relations with Asian countries. The government’s work will combine a comprehensive analysis of Asia with specific plans for central government investment. This is necessary both to make work concrete and relevant, and because the differences between Asian countries are so large. In some countries, development cooperation is the primary. This applies not only to the priority cooperation countries Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Nepal, but also to countries such as Cambodia and Laos. In other contexts, it's our strong political commitment to finding solutions to conflict situations that dominate – I can mention Burma and East Timor here. In some countries, commercial interests and the desire for increased trade and investment will be of great importance – Japan, China, South Korea and Singapore, to name a few. In Vietnam, we are engaged in both economic cooperation, development cooperation and democratic development. We're going to take with us the best experience of working with the Asia plan. In addition, the Government will follow the plans for a larger investment in central Asian countries. We will do this in close consultation with industry, research environments and the organisation. As this work affects important Norwegian interests, it would be natural to explain this in more detail to the Stortinget once parts of the next year’s visit programme in Asia have been implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e590	I thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the answer, but I cannot be satisfied. I perceived the post as essentially a summary of all the objections to really doing something that it's possible to do, because if you don't create a focus or some sort of overall strategy, I think to the seventh and last not that's going to happen so much. Everything's going to take off as it's been done in the past. Of course, it's true that the main objection to following the Swedish pattern was that the countries of Asia are very different. I just want to tell you in parentheses that there was a film festival here in Oslo 14 days ago – it was called Film from the South. The countries most focused under the term ‘south’ were Japan and South Korea, which are located in the north in any conceivable understanding of the terms ‘north’ and ‘south’. It's clear that we have to get out of such collective concepts as "stress" and "Asia", but if you don't create some kind of focus, I don't think anything is going to happen. Then everyone – universities, colleges, business and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – will only be able to do what they have done, focusing on what is perceived as the short-term tasks. And if Norway is to benefit from, and be involved in, the new global age, which we are all talking about – it was at the latest a main theme in the debate on the Nordic Council half an hour ago – we need to acquire knowledge in a completely different way, open Norway to impulses from elsewhere, get people out and in dialogue. Because if you don't have some sort of focus on this, I honestly think that almost nothing is going to happen. This also has to do with understanding foreign policy. Foreign policy is to a very small extent as it was in Fürst Metternich's days and to a very small extent as we saw it during the meeting here two days ago, when top leaders met and discussed themselves between themselves. I'm not saying it's not important. Creating a good atmosphere between leaders is important. But most of the foreign policy today is the sum of what all of Norway’s non-governmental organisations, all of Norway’s enterprises, Norway’s county councils do – the county council has three employees who are engaged in foreign policy. So it's the sum of all these institutions that really determine what is Norway's foreign policy. As I see it, the role of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is very much to create a framework, a strategy, a whole for this. So it's all, from the smallest sewing association to the Landsorganisation and the NHO and all companies, at least of some size, that run foreign policy. Then I have to say that I think it must make sense if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs takes the lead in such a strategy and draws up the framework for it. And I repeat that I think that a unified Asia plan, or an overall strategy, will be the most sensible thing to get all of these elements to draw in a similar direction.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e603	The representative of Solheim shall certainly be in favour of his various interpellations. This is not the first time he has so far aroused us by pointing to areas to which it is important to focus attention, and to which we may not have had the necessary attention. I'm willing to admit that he has a point when he says that from the Norwegian side in a broad context, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we have not had any attention directed to Asia in the way that we should have. That's why I thank you for the interpellation. It obviously makes us have to prepare our own house, and start a process with ourselves. Nevertheless, I allow myself to disagree with him when he adds as a premise that we can do something reasonable in Asia, that we must have a unified Asia plan or Asia strategy. I think, with all possible respect for our Swedish friends, that the current Asia strategy may not necessarily guarantee that this will be the promise to Asia that we hope for. The representative Solheim himself shows that there's a lot of paper, there's a lot of words. And those of us who have been involved in creating these kinds of strategies and plans know how hugely resource-intensive it is. One of the problems we have when we're facing this kind of work is that it takes time. With the dynamic development we have in Asia today, I'm afraid that our plans will not be up-to-date with developments in Asia. I therefore allow myself to ask for understanding, including from the representative of Solheim, that we are now trying to develop country strategies for at least some countries. We can do that faster, we can make it easier, they can be more operational and they can change much faster, so that we can follow developments in these countries in a completely different way than if we're going to make an overall big strategy. But that doesn't mean we don't have to get together – to use a simple term – and involve, as I said in my first post, Norwegian society wide. Because I fully agree with Solheim's representative that this goes on knowledge, this goes on understanding, where the teaching work has to go – it's at school or university level. We have to have the organisational life, we have to have research institutions and we have to have the business. But I think we'll be able to get more if we do this more specifically to the individual countries, and if not the bulk of the population imposes something else, I'll start with it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e612	I don't think it'll end up with any instructions. I'm simply not sure where it ends, because it's quite difficult things that we're discussing here. And as it turns out, I might be a little bit less in opposition to the Council of State than what Erik Solheim is. On the other hand, I am also not sure what the Foreign Minister actually says here, because he is freed from a series of country strategies. In passing, as far as I heard, it was taken with about the largest part of Asia, from Central Asia to the east and to the south. I think it would be useful if we also have a review of our relationship with Asia, if not as extensive as the Swedish have done, perhaps on the basis of what the Foreign Minister here says. There are different reasons for that. The one thing that Erik Solheim is gripping is that it's important to get an understanding of what this huge continent means. It is important to identify the lack, but such an exercise is primarily important in order to develop priorities. That's why it's three parts of this that it's important to come up with: it's understanding, it's priority, and it's action. And then to the seventh and then to the last, that's what counts. Asia is, as was said here, so extensive and diffuse advocacy that it's really hard to say something exactly about an Asia strategy, but it could be a framework for a discussion. I understand at Erik Solheim that that's also the starting point. On the other hand, most of the Nordics, including us in the United Kingdom, thought that even Europe is so big and complicated that we have problems making a European policy, so maybe it could be an exercise before we seriously go free of an Asia policy, but maybe we can handle it at the same time. At least I think it might put it a little bit in perspective that we have problems with how we're going to deal with those who spend an hour of flight away, and that it's even worse with those who live half a day or more away. However, it is important to put in place the infrastructure for understanding, preparedness and country-specific strategies pointed out by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. As a conclusion to this, I hope that the Government can continue to work on the basis that the Foreign Minister drew up, which is based on these country-specific strategies, but that the sum of these should also be a discussion of our relationship with Asia. Now it's not that the government always avoids these big collectivities. This concern, which has now been around in the political debate for quite a long time, is, if possible, even worse and has even less to do with concrete action than what an Asia strategy has. Other governments, too, have used this scope to a large extent, but now I get to grips with the government as its own. I think this would be a way to get around that kind of a little diffuse and really very impractical conspiracy for political action.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e623	I'll try on an approximate quotation of Kipling: East is east and west is west, and these two shall never meet. It's probably in many ways very true in it, and it's shaped our relationship with Asia. We haven't been good enough in Norwegian foreign policy to take over the dynamic development that has, after all, taken place, and the increasingly important role that Asia has played. Nor have we been good enough to follow the globalisation that has taken place. One point in that way was the debate we had earlier today on the relationship with the Nordic countries. I think it's commendable that Solheim's representative puts our finger on the need to build up knowledge about the relationship with Asia. We need to build up knowledge in several areas. Now I think Minister of Foreign Affairs Vollebæk has been attending the interpellant, and I think that his conclusion, as well as the President of Blankenborg's conclusion, which he called developing an infrastructure of understanding in relation to Asia, has a lot to do with it. We also need to realize that much of our future and our future foreign policy challenges, and for that matter too, are in this area. But I don't want to go as far as Solheim's representative believes that we need a so-called global Asia plan, although we might want to focus something on Asia's relationship.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e632	The representative of Solheim calls for a comprehensive Asia strategy and points to important areas, including: knowledge dissemination is very important. Good knowledge of other countries is essential for contact, and this also needs to be improved in relation to Asia. The Christian People's Party has always stressed international solidarity, but this has probably been most expressed through our aid policy. There we have wanted to be more targeted and effective, and it also includes more than unhelp. Norwegian trade policies are also important and resources are used to strengthen the evaluation function in order to integrate their lessons into future strategic work. A comprehensive strategy on how authorities and businesses in Norway can contribute more effectively to creating income and jobs in the south — it says ‘south’, I might add ‘east’ after that — was presented in the context of this year’s budget, for there is one of the three ‘pilot countries’ in Sri Lanka. The January humanitarian aid strategy also highlighted that we will give high priority to the prevention of conflicts and disasters and the consolidation of fragile peace through a consciously poverty-oriented commitment to education, the environment and democracy. When we travel from country to country in Asia, they strike cultural/religious differences against one, as well as the political situation. We can admire the finest temples in both Sri Lanka and China, then experience ethnic conflicts and human rights violations in the next few moments. It's a very diverse continent, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs said. In our contact and our cooperation with this continent, we need to develop a strategy that takes account of both inequalities and exploits the possibilities of diversity. Our framework thinking about cooperation with Asia thus includes both political contacts, which can be improved, cooperation on democracy development and economic cooperation. Although the strategy cannot be the same in relation to all countries in Asia, the different approaches can take place within a common framework that also looks at the similarities that exist across Asia. Such an overall view of Asia will also highlight some of the main challenges facing large parts of the world, and there is support not only for economic development but for strengthening and contact with civil society. Major investigation processes tend to be very extensive, as the Swedish Asia strategy shows. The Christian People's Party has greater faith in country-specific and regional-based instruments and strategies in cooperation with Asia, where also several non-governmental organisations come along, together with Norwegian business, which are important actors.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e645	The Swedish strategy to which Erik Solheim refers is a comprehensive document with a number of proposals for action at both multilateral and bilateral level and at EU level. The strategy underlines the need for a coordinated effort at all levels and is thus not a national strategy in the sense of the word that Erik Solheim calls for. One of the wordings of the document is, inter alia, the following: that Sweden is a bridge builder for Asia, and the word ‘Europe’ is used throughout the report on a continent in which Sweden also belongs. The interesting question that arises is where the Norwegian bridge will point. To Iceland? A little reading shows that Sweden is not alone against Asia. The report emphasises inter alia: ASEM, a forum for cooperation between the EU Member States and ten countries in Asia, underlines the EU’s importance for Sweden both in terms of impact and long-term action, especially in relation to China. The report also proposes to contribute to economic free trade by contributing to the strengthening of multilateral trade and investment legislation in the framework of the WTO and supporting its active membership, including through active dialogue with the Asian countries, for example. within the framework of ASEM. This is one of the more interesting things that our government should also look at. I think this strategy draws up a realistic framework for action spaces. It is limited what small countries can do with so-called global strategies without the necessary back coverage. Nor is it new in the EU context that some countries launch ‘strategies’ in the EU. Finland's strategy for the north is also an example of this. Erik Solheim uses the words ‘dramatically increasing share of the world economy’ in the interpellation text. Yes, this could be dramatic for states that are increasingly alone in the global community, and that view this as a virtue of necessity.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e658	There is no disagreement as to the large and increasing role played by Asian countries in the international community. The important role played by Asia was illustrated in the so-called Asia crisis last year, where Norway, with its extroverted economy, felt that economic turbulence also engulfed the Norwegian economy. The inter-pellant has undoubtedly made a point when he wants Norway to prepare and raise its preparedness for the ‘Asias century’. The Foreign Minister’s reply also shows that the Government takes this challenge seriously, even though a Norwegian person does not consider it appropriate to make a so-called Asia strategy according to Swedish pattern. However, this somewhat different approach between the inter-pellant and the Minister for Foreign Affairs should not be exaggerated, as I assume that the inter-pellant also agrees that a Norwegian strategy against Asia must be flexible in relation to the challenges and that Norway must choose a Norwegian approach rather than a Swedish one. Instead of a coherent Asia strategy, the further development of Norway’s Asia initiative should imply a concrete and varied cooperation that takes account of the heterogeneity of countries in Asia and which has as its starting point Norway’s interests and needs to be met. Different labels must not obscure the consensus on the main strategy expressed in this debate. The interpellant mentioned the 1994 Asia Plan in its submission, and the evaluation of this plan should provide useful guidance on the concreteisation of future Asia policy. There is particular reason to note that the review of the 1994 Asia Plan shows that activities have been one-sided business-oriented – if I understood the Minister for Foreign Affairs correctly. Activities in the case of e.g.: political dialogue and cultural cooperation have clearly been a priority. When the Minister for Foreign Affairs today says that one should take the best of the experience with the Asia plan, I assume that the said imbalance revealed by the evaluation will be restored in the new investment towards the countries of Asia. Because although a targeted Asia effort will be strongly influenced by economic conditions related to trade and investment, it is important to focus on policy conditions and environmental development, on democratic development and human rights and on cultural cooperation. There is such a holistic and varied effort that best caters for our interests, and that can meet the challenges that the interpellant draws up in its interpellant.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e668	To some extent, this may have been as much a debate on terminology as on content. Do you need a comprehensive strategy or plan, or do you need a number of sub-strategies, sub-plans? The disagreement may appear to be related to such concepts as the substance. In any case, there is agreement that our understanding of Asian issues can and must be both better and better, and that more action is needed. It is my opinion that as large and diverse as Asia is, one must be able to ask the question whether one overall plan or strategy will be what is most appropriate. It must be more important with sensible priority actions based on increased understanding, which we must obtain. The measures referred to by the interpellant, for example: better language training, can certainly be carried out without having to be based on a single overall plan or strategy. In view of the relatively small awareness I personally have of Asia, there are at least at least as many of the inequalities that exist between different parts of Asia and different countries in Asia, as with what you might call similarity. One can only take two neighbouring countries like Laos and Vietnam, where it made a much stronger impression of what differences there were in the situation in these two countries, than what similarities there were, perhaps quite apart from the fact that both were the remains of a one-party/communist tradition that was still alive. The interpellant also came with a few minor kicks against the Minister of Industry. Now it's not necessarily my job to defend him, and it's not that easy to take the very specific things, but I would first like to stress that the quotation that Erik Solheim made from his views on Norwegian business and Japan is a misunderstanding that I don't think should be allowed to live on. The Minister of Economic Affairs has also been travelling both to Japan, where the alleged quote should have fallen, and recently to South Korea for a longer stay. I would also like to mention that the political leadership of the Ministry of Economic Affairs has had a significant travel activity to Asia. The current Minister of Technology was accepted by State Secretary Berg when he was visiting Norway, and she met him in Indonesia a little later. In any case, it may have been beneficial as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e679	There is a broad consensus that the fight for human rights must be conducted through political and diplomatic channels, but it must also have implications for international trade and economic cooperation. Now, when I take the floor, it's to focus on the business delegation that's going to visit Iran later this month. The Iranian political prisoners in Norway fear the legitimisation of the barbaric regime in Iran. That's why it's superfluous that the delegation is putting back some business cards about the bestial violations of human rights, and that we make it very clear that we do not accept systematic violations of fundamental democratic rights. Because the situation is really bad in Iran. Thousands of people who have demonstrated for democratic and political rights have been imprisoned, many have been killed, some have been sentenced to death, and others have received long prison sentences. Recently, three women were executed by stoning. Steining is detailed in their penal code. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs' press officer calls this an unfortunate event, according to the Class Fight. It's not so nice that exilirans react and protest. I am not against establishing trade relations and diplomatic relations with countries that violate human rights, but we must, to a large extent, avoid giving political and economic legitimacy to the regimes in these countries. We must have the publicity that we address violations of human rights, and the Government must lead in this. In written questions, I have asked the State Council of Sponheim how human rights violations will be addressed with the Iranian authorities in connection with the business delegation's visit there. Sponheim answers that human rights issues will be addressed in an appropriate way. I had expected a somewhat more offensive attitude and action from a government that domestically upholds human rights to the degrees that this government does. There shall be an Iran seminar in advance of the delegation trip. I can't see that human rights are the theme at all. I think that's scary, and I hope the Foreign Minister will do something in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e688	Of course, it's not my main concern that we are going to copy everything the Swedes have done, and very close to the fact that we need to produce as much paper as they have done, so I have to stress that the Swedish strategy is not a unified strategy for Asia, but a selection of suggestions on how to approach different Asian countries differently, and a very central part of it is a continuous assessment of developments in each country. What's my main concern is two relationships. One is that we have to look at this as a whole, and then I think first of all about a whole in Norway. Example: When Chinese President Jiang Zemin was in Norway a few years ago, all Norwegian media almost consistently talked about him as Mr. Zemin. The same was also done by the most senior Norwegian volunteer organisation working in the field of human rights. It demonstrated to any Chinese that these didn't know anything about China. For those who know a little bit about China, know that it's as meaningless as having consistently talked about, for example. Mr. Bill during the American state visit now. You don't get taken seriously by Chinese people, who think of themselves as the Middle Kingdom, if you can't do anything. The same is true, of course, in relation to the economy. If Norwegian business leaders travel to Asian countries and do not have enough historical, cultural and other ballasts, the chances are that they will be able to contract, in fact, much less than if they do. That is why, if we are making country-specific strategies, we must also create strategies that are coherent. They need to be about human rights, democracy, economics and knowledge building in Norway, about Norwegian universities and about language training – all these things in a whole. I think the main weakness of the original Asia plan was that it was purely nutritional. So if those strategies the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is now making, will have such a holistic focus, I think we've taken a right and a long step. The other thing is that if these things aren't somehow put together in some kind of focus, then we can't get anywhere. The reason is that it requires a public debate. It requires a center that kind of initiates things, if you're going to get something. Because there's a thousand individual decisions that will make up the whole thing here. So if Norwegian universities don't facilitate more studies and student exchanges, more training in Asian languages and more curriculum from Asia, then we won't get away. This cannot be determined directly by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and it is an example of how you need a whole and a focus. If the conclusion can be what Haakon Blankenburg said, I will be pleased. I saw it as really three points: that it is important to prioritize, it is important to acquire knowledge and it is important to act. We do this best by basing what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs proposes, country-specific strategies, but these must somehow be presented to the Stortinget, in a big message, in a statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs or in another form that gives us a national whole and a national focus.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e701	I note that it is a clear wish on the part of Stortinget that the Government should further develop Norway's relationship with the Asian countries. I also note that there is a great deal of agreement that we should have a whole, a framework, but that within this framework we should be able to create both understanding, priority and action, to quote the representative of Blankenborg, in relation to the individual countries, and I would like to return to Stortinget in such a context. I also want to say thank you for the other speeches in this debate, which have given me some important moments for the further work. The representative Siri Frost Sterri is concerned about Europe, and it is also this Government, although the representative Frost Sterri does not entirely believe in the Minister for Foreign Affairs when he says so. I am not so sure that today's situation makes it impossible for us to see ourselves in a European context. I think that precisely what we have witnessed in the Middle East shows that Norway can play an important European role not only in European neighbourhoods but that it can also be transferred to other contexts. I think it is important, as the representative Frost Sterri is concerned, that we look into this European context, and that we, as a European country, identify ourselves this way when we deal with Asia, because it is only in the way that we will be taken seriously in the Asian context, and I see no problem in doing so. The representative of Husøy is concerned with human rights, and there is no doubt that there is an important question, not least to Iran, but also to other Asian countries, and that there is something we need to follow closely. I think it's exciting to look at the role we've been able to play and still play vis-à-vis China in terms of human rights dialogue. We're being taken seriously. We're a partner that I think can make use of there. Other countries also think this is interesting and want to cooperate with us. We're going to take advantage of that. I agree that Iran is an important country in this context, and it also clearly shows what I myself had in mind that we need to develop country-specific strategies and approaches. I can assure the representative, Mr Husøy, that we have raised human rights with Iran, among others. We did that when Secretary of State Strommen recently visited Iran, but of course we will also do so in the future. It would be natural to do so also in business contexts. I will therefore continue to work according to the guidelines that the department and I have outlined, and with the input that I have received here today. Then I'll get back to Stortinget at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e712	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e726	Uncontrolled proliferation of nuclear weapons and nuclear material may pose the greatest threat to humanity, to civilization and to the environment on our planet. Today, the threat of nuclear war does not stem from major activization in a two - part world. It is there in the form of spread hazards to countries with totalitarian and unpredictable regimes. It's there because bitter regional conflicts are fading out, where the parties are fighting to show who has the most technologically best nuclear missiles. It is there in the fact that nuclear competence and fissile material after the fall of the Soviet Union are out of control, and can become a means of pressuring terrorist groups. It is there because of the environmental threat of nuclear waste and reactors in poor conditions in Russia and other post-Soviet states. It is there because some third-world countries acquire expertise, technology and enough fissile material to develop nuclear weapons. It is there also because of increased availability of high technology, which can be used both for civil and military purposes. However, the nuclear threat is not reduced by Russia not ratifying the START II agreement or by the Senate of the world’s most powerful nation, the United States, not ratifying the test stop agreement and continuing to develop new weapons through laboratory testing. The decision of the Senate, and not to talk about the nuclear armaments of India and Pakistan, with Kashmir as an unexplored bomb in a literal sense, also raises concerns about what could happen to the non-proliferation agreement at the April 2000 Conference of Supervisors. I would also refer to what Erik Solheim said in his interpellation on Asia, where he stressed that the greatest nuclear threat today lies just in Asia, both at the intersection of India-Pakistan, but also in relation to China and Korea. There are concerns about what is happening in relation to nuclear disarmament in that part of the world. On 2 September this year, Kjell Dragnes had a comment article in the Evening Post where he told me that the doomsday clock on the first page of the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists is nine minutes at twelve. After last year’s Pakistan and India trials, Leonard Reiser — in that bulletin last 11 June — moved the visas five minutes to nine minutes at twelve. At the same time, however, the researchers would show that the old nuclear powers have failed in their disarmament negotiations, that it seems that attempts to prevent proliferation have failed, and that the huge amounts of nuclear weapons from the cold war days have not been reduced, as believed and hoped at the beginning of this decade. The ‘Doomsday Clock’ was seven minutes at twelve when it appeared in the June issue of the Bulletin in 1947. Since then, it has been adjusted several times, in line with changing international political cycles. Dragnes writes: ‘After the last inconclusive discussions between the United States and Russia, and after India has proclaimed a comprehensive nuclear programme, there is no reason to believe that the clock will be moved back with the first.’ We must fight against all kinds of weapons of destruction: chemical weapons, bacteriological weapons and nuclear weapons. But nuclear weapons and radioactivity still stand in many ways in a special position in terms of death and destruction. Eva Nordland gave the main speech at the peace building at Youngstorget on August 6, 1997 – it was on Hiroshima Day. She told me, among other things: on the destruction of the Hiroshima bomb in a school. Out of 300 students, she said, 17 survived in the first few minutes. The air was soot, ash, dust, all silent darkness. From the atomic cloud comes the unfathomable thunder. Cruel smell and taste spread, glass pieces fly with a force that takes life, where some are still alive. Buildings had evaporated to pieces. In the ground below was ground and roots burned. People who were not dead dragged themselves against water sources or train stations. She said a lot more, but this also shows which weapons of destruction the nuclear bomb is, and today's nuclear weapons are probably considerably stronger than the nuclear bomb that fell over Hiroshima. The world was basically never the same after the Hiroshima bomb. The energy and strength of nuclear weapons, today many, many times larger, are of a character we can barely grasp. Lack of credible will to eliminate nuclear weapons poses a great threat to humanity. In the post-war period, we have had the pleasure of experiencing the introduction of a ban on both chemical and biological weapons, but the ban on and the elimination of nuclear weapons is waiting. There is no doubt about the state of opinion in Norway regarding nuclear weapons. A poll from July last year shows that 92 pst. believes that the Government should actively promote a ban on nuclear weapons. Of course, it's not done overnight, and it will require political and diplomatic work, including along the small steps, which I think we should acknowledge. We've had more shots to bring nuclear weapons to life, for example. The 1996 Canberra Commission made a number of proposals. In the same year, the Treaty on a Total Prohibition of Nuclear Testing was adopted and opened for signature at the UN General Assembly. And the non-proliferation agreement was extended indefinitely in 1995. From the Norwegian side, it was just important to have the agreement without a time limit. In 1997, Malaysia and 47 other countries presented the so-called Malaysia Resolution, adopted by the UN Disarmament Committee on 10 November to 26 votes, with 24 abstentions. Norway was among those who abstained. Last year, Brazil, Egypt, Ireland, Mexico, New Zealand, Slovenia, Sweden and South Africa launched a new initiative: the New Agenda Coalition. Norway abstained from voting with merit last year – did not vote against, as it was for a while, and I would like to commend the Minister for Foreign Affairs for that handling. This year, the New Agenda Coalition has presented a revised proposal to the UN General Assembly – and this time the seven and not eight are, if I have registered correctly. I think it is important that until the UN vote, Norway should keep in touch with the other Nordic countries, with allies and others in order to discuss how the resolution should be handled. We should promote an active opinion. The text of the year is much softer than last year. It will be of great importance that Norway and several NATO countries vote in favour of this NATO resolution. At the same time, there will be a signal that the Government and Norway now want to put nuclear weapons elimination on the agenda. Votes in this kind of question are the responsibility of the Government. And as I said, this responsibility was handled last year with great skill. Of course, UN resolutions do not solve the challenges posed by the nuclear threat, at least not alone. But they still have an enormous political, moral and symbolic effect. With the new text of the NAC resolution, Norway should vote in favour this year. If necessary, Norway should go in and contribute to the adjustment of the text so that both Norway and other like-minded countries assess this resolution in order to be able to vote in favour of it. These are in particular some allied countries, such as the United States and Japan. Italy, the Netherlands and Germany, and of course Sweden, Brazil and South Africa, as well as is behind this resolution, which has to be contacted in order to discuss not only adjustments but also the possibilities of voting in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e762	Nuclear disarmament is one of the most important tasks on the international political agenda and a priority task for the Government. Over several years, Norway, together with other countries, has been promoting resolutions in this area. Russification control, disarmament and non-proliferation are also key areas for our work in NATO. Together with other neighbouring countries, we are actively working at the disarmament conference in Geneva and within the framework of the non-proliferation agreement. At the same time, we are making considerable efforts to meet the challenges of other weapons of mass destruction and conventional weapons, such as biological and chemical weapons, anti-personnel mines and small arms. We welcome policy initiatives that will reduce the role of nuclear weapons in international policy and that can bring together the necessary support and deliver concrete results. I agree with the inter-pellant that there are now a number of concerns about reducing the role of nuclear weapons in international policy. Russia has still not ratified the START II Agreement. This has so far blocked further negotiations on further reductions. The Indian and Pakistani blasts last year were a serious undermining of the non-proliferation regime. Nor have India and Pakistan shown political will to refrain from further nuclear tests or to renounce the nuclear option. The multilateral work at the disarmament conference in Geneva and in the framework of the non-proliferation agreement has been characterised by a standstill. For example, the negotiations on a contractual ban on the production of fissile materials for weapons use are: not yet started. The American Senate's refusal to ratify the probation agreement is also deeply regrettable. The decision gives a very unfortunate political signal at a time when the non-proliferation regime is under pressure and the multilateral dialogue on disarmament policy issues is stuck. At the same time, I would like to stress that the Government appreciates President Clinton's assurances that the United States will not resume testing. The Clinton administration will also continue its efforts to ensure American ratification. This was repeated during the President's visit to Norway. Although all countries have a responsibility for nuclear disarmament, the main responsibility lies with the nuclear powers. It is the political will of nuclear powers for new commitments in the area of disarmament that is crucial to achieving results. The current situation of multilateral dialogue on these issues calls for input and initiatives to facilitate a more constructive cooperation environment. Such initiatives must be designed in a way that is coherent and non-divisive. I believe that the best strategy for Norway is to invest in political processes where we can make realistic, concrete and constructive contributions. Therefore, in the 1st Committee of the United Nations earlier in the autumn, Norway proposed the following six practical measures: Firstly, the supervisory process of the non-proliferation agreement must be revitalised. It is important that the parties to the next year’s Conference of Supervisors agree on a strategy that can make this process a valuable instrument for preventing proliferation and promoting disarmament. Secondly, it is important to set up a working group at the Geneva Disarmament Conference responsible for ongoing discussions on nuclear disarmament. This may include, inter alia: provide nuclear powers with the opportunity to inform of actions and results resulting from unilateral and bilateral initiatives and thereby demonstrate their disarmament policy will. Thirdly, Russia must ratify the START II agreement as soon as possible. Furthermore, the United States and Russia should start negotiations on a START III agreement on further reductions in nuclear stocks. Fourthly, tactical nuclear weapons must be included in the disarmament policy agenda. For example, stocks of Russian weapons of this type can be rapidly repopulated and play a destabilising role in conflict-affected areas. Fifthly, we need to intensify efforts to increase the number of ratifications of the probationary agreement. This will strengthen the political pressure on signatory states that have not yet ratified. Sixthly, negotiations on an international ban on the production of fissile materials for weapons purposes must begin as soon as possible. Last year's UN General Assembly drew great attention to the resolution on nuclear disarmament presented by the so-called New Agenda Coalition, or the 7-country group, as it is this year – last year was what the representative Nybakk said, 8 countries, Slovenia is not in this year. From the Norwegian side, we shared the main objective of the resolution on a nuclear-free world and its emphasis on the need for new movement in the disarmament process. However, Norway chose to abstain during the vote, like virtually all other non-nuclear weapons states in NATO and Europe. In our view, the text of the resolution contained a number of problematic elements and proposals. It has been disseminated, inter alia: a fundamental scepticism of the will to disarmament of nuclear powers, rather than contributing to a more constructive cooperation climate. The United States and Russia were mentioned in particular, while the resolution did not find any grounds to name India and Pakistan, which had recently carried out a series of nuclear testing. The resolution cut all nuclear weapons powers across one comb and gave a misleading picture of the disarmament measures that, in the first series of Western nuclear weapons, have carried out in recent years. Furthermore, the resolution’s proposal for a special conference on nuclear disarmament in the Norwegian context would complicate and weaken multilateral dialogue in the non-proliferation field. This year's motion for a resolution is more positive, as Mr Nybakk said. However, there are still a number of problematic aspects of the text. One main problem is that the approach is characterised by a fundamental scepticism that nuclear weapons take their disarmament obligations seriously. All nuclear powers are still cut over one comb. The resolution does not mention India and Pakistan either. This is unsatisfactory and unbalanced. I would like to stress here that last year the nuclear tests of India and Pakistan were the first to be carried out by undeclared nuclear states in 24 years. They made a serious impact on the non-proliferation regime and on the standards established. Of course, such a dramatic event should be mentioned. The proposal for a new international conference on nuclear disarmament outside the non-proliferation process could undermine follow-up work on non-proliferation. This is linked to the main message of the text, namely that what we need is a new agenda. Our view is that we primarily need new momentum and momentum in the existing agenda and established processes. We have more to gain from strengthening multilateral dialogue in the framework of non-proliferation rather than creating new conferences. Based on the desire to support the intentions of the resolution, I contacted the Swedish Minister of Foreign Affairs at an early stage to see if it would be possible to obtain the necessary changes to the text. These consultations continue. Several NATO countries have arrived, but it has proved difficult to grasp our views. In my view, the changes that have been made so far are not sufficient for us to vote in favour. Proposalers must show willingness to take the problems seriously. This includes, inter alia: that the resolution must also distance itself from the tests carried out by India and Pakistan. If we do not get an impact on our views, we will unfortunately have to give up the resolution this year too. At the same time, we will continue our commitment to disarmament, as the priority task it is for the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e808	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the answer. It is not difficult to agree that we need first of all a new movement, as the Minister expressed it, and progress within the framework of the non-proliferation agreement. I believe that there is a broad consensus on this, and also that the most important thing is to get the focus on actions that really lead to nuclear disarmament, and that Norway, of course, acts in the various forums and contributes to strengthening multilateral dialogue in the context of non-proliferation. But if you continue the previous agenda, you can also go into a new agenda. The UN resolution now being promoted has an important political signal effect – as I also underlined in my first post – in the work against a nuclear-free world, in order to eliminate nuclear weapons. I appreciate the fact that the government has been actively involved in a work to bring about changes in the resolution so that it can be supported by the Norwegian side. I also share the Foreign Minister's assessment that India and Pakistan must be mentioned in the resolution. That India's and Pakistan's nuclear tests were actually the first to be carried out by undeclared 24 year nuclear weapons states is important to emphasize, and also that the nuclear threat in that part of the world may be the greatest threat we've seen for a long time; that we must distance ourselves from these tests, there is no doubt, and that should also be included in the resolution. I think that the NAC resolution and initiative are affordable, because they have been gripped by the persistent threat to human rights, as nuclear weapons are, and because, as I said, it is important sometimes to have such resolutions in the UN that give important signal effects. You try to live up to the work that the UN General Assembly started in 1946, trying to remove nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction from national arsenals. What I thought was interesting in what the foreign minister said was that he has made contact to see if it is possible to reach an agreement between different types of countries on this resolution – that would be Sweden, South Africa, etc. on the one hand, and Sweden is the key nation in this context – to get the changes that Norway and possibly other countries, such as Italy, the Netherlands, want, but also to talk to Italy, Germany, the Netherlands and others. The Italian Senate has, as far as I know, been in favour of this resolution, and I hope that and will also ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether Norway in the final interview will go in and intensify the work to see if agreement is reached.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e821	Mr Vollebæk has the floor. The next speaker is Bjørn Tore Godal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e824	I can assure the interpellant that we are keeping a very high level of activity on this matter, precisely on the grounds that we wanted to vote in favour of the resolution. That was our intention: to try to get to it this year. That is why, as I said, we contacted Sweden at a very early stage in order to start a dialogue. I agree with the interpellant that the intentions of this so-called NAC resolution are priceworthy, and it is therefore with regret that we must say that we have so far failed to reach the goal of understanding our view. We will continue this work towards the time when the vote will take place. It is positive that several NATO countries have engaged in this, that we have a group of Members who, like us, see this as an important matter and a matter in which we should try to move, because, as the interpellant says, there is no doubt that the signal effect, the political significance of a resolution pointing forward to a nuclear-free world, is important. But if such a resolution is to be taken seriously, as the interpellant also refers to, we must take the real problems we are facing, and then the trials of India and Pakistan are one of the major problems. We discussed Asia earlier today. There is no doubt that the situation in Asia is unstable and that the situation in Pakistan is very fragile. So Pakistan is a nuclear power, and if we cannot also get engaged Pakistan in the disarmament work, I think we are facing a very serious situation on the Indian continent. But I can assure the representative that we will continue this work until the time when the resolution will come to a vote, just to try to get an understanding.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e831	It becomes like in some football matches the need for exchangers, the advertised speaker Bjørn Tore Godal is temporarily replaced with Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e834	It can be exciting to sit on the exchange bench, you don't know what's going on. When we discuss nuclear weapons in Norway, it is not that we have a debate about whether we are for or against nuclear weapons. What we're discussing are strategies to neutralize and remove these weapons, and there we are very much in agreement. So the question is, how solid are you going to be, or how smooth are you going to be? Knowing this balance is the tools of diplomacy. When the Foreign Minister says that it has been difficult to join this NAC Treaty because it contains some comments that you do not have all the world's confidence in the real will of the nuclear powers to do something in fact, it is not that vague. It is – as far as I can understand – a certain reason to have that kind of suspicion, as it now looks. But then the question is, what is appropriate, how to actually achieve that something is happening. I have to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs if I have understood him correctly, that if you are able to bring in certain rewordings so that India and Pakistan are mentioned as they should be in this Treaty, can we vote in favour of it? Or is it that, in addition to this, any criticism or suspicion of the lack of will or ability of nuclear powers must be removed from this Treaty? When I say that there is reason to have some such wording, it is of course because of Russia's inability or willingness to ratify the START II agreement, what just happened in the United States with their refusal to ratify the probationary agreement, and, of course, India and Pakistan, who have had their test explosions, and China, which is also active. The countries that support the NAC resolution are countries with which we can logically stand rather rigidly together in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e847	The interpellant addresses an important theme. In the past, there was probably a greater commitment and debate among the population of Norway on the issue of non-proliferation, disarmament and the elimination of nuclear weapons. But the matter has not lost its importance. Today, these themes are being discussed in an international arena. Progress has been made. But we also see an increased rate of testing this type of weapon and lack of progress. I am thinking here especially of the tests that India and Pakistan carried out last year. The US Senate’s refusal to ratify the probation agreement and Russia’s refusal to ratify the START II agreement also entail a worrying stop in development. It seems as if there have become tougher fronts and less cooperative spirit in the process of approaching a nuclear-free world. The 7-country initiative, as it is now, the New Agenda Coalition, presents a new resolution in the autumn. Interpellant asks whether the Government will actively participate in the UN negotiations with a view to voting in favour of the NAC resolution. For us in the Christian People's Party, it is a prerequisite for voting for such a resolution that it helps to release a partly stationary cooperation climate and will contribute to results, and that we do not now create new arenas, but work within the established framework that exists. This is too important to flag high positions and symbolic principles. What we have to achieve is results. Then it's important to be careful. It is important to recognise what has already been done. Fair treatment of different countries is important. A new deal is important in the cooperation between nuclear powers. And it's important to have an ever-increasing international press. I hope that the inter-pellant agrees that these are important things that need to be assessed in relation to the NAC resolution and whether Norway will vote in favour of it. My advice on the way to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is, this is not a matter where we can afford to go down with the flag to the top. This is a matter where results are the most important.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e854	The proposal of the so-called New Agenda Coalition on full nuclear disarmament was also debated in the Stortinget last year. The Minister for Foreign Affairs then pointed out significant shortcomings in the proposal, including: as regards the allocation of responsibility for the ratification of the Start II Agreement, which the initiative shared equally between Russia and the United States. The Minister for Foreign Affairs also referred to formulations in the pre-ambulum of the initiative that were problematic, including: the fact that the will of nuclear power was called into question as a precondition for the initiative. So last year, together with other countries, Norway abstained from voting for this initiative and proposed changes to the initiative of the 8 countries in coalition with Canada and Japan. A new version of the New Agenda Coalition proposal was presented to the UN on 22 October this year. The question is, however, whether the changes in this document are substantive in nature. There is no reason for Norway to change its position in the light of the new document on the right. This still allocates responsibility for the Start II agreement equally between Russia and the United States, despite the fact that the Senate has ratified this agreement, and despite many initiatives to make Russia do the same. Some details pointed out by the Minister of Foreign Affairs at the previous crossroads have not been changed either. I would like to remind the inter-pellant, Marit Nybakk, that the background to UN concern was the testing of India and Pakistan. In this context, Norway took a direct initiative, including: Australia, Canada and New Zealand on a resolution condemning the detonations. As the Right Leader, Jan Petersen, noted in last year's debate, the initial initiative was for the weak in the non-proliferation field. This has not changed in the new proposal. It is important that the Government preserves a certain degree of real-political tenacity in these issues. That is why the Right is so pleased with the Government's position presented by Minister of Foreign Affairs Vollebæk in this debate. But the Right expressed in last year's debate that the Government should also be able to use a more active instrument than abstaining from voting, by voting against texts with which one is not satisfied. I find reason to repeat this now. Finally, let me just say that it is a cross of thought that this debate is now being raised on the side of Marit Nybakk two days after the President's visit to this country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e875	First, I would like to say that the representative Marit Nybakk has raised an important interpellation. The fight against nuclear weapons is probably not as visible today, as it has been said before, as during the cold war. Most people don't feel so trusted. But a lot suggests that we should be at least as busy with disarmament now as before, mainly because nuclear disarmament has almost stopped. A few weeks ago, the Senate said no to ratify the trial discontinuation agreement. At the same time, opinion in Russia has turned around. In the past, the figure was approx. 70 pst. of the population of Russia against nuclear weapons, while now is 70 pst. for these weapons. Furthermore, China has said that they will invest $78 billion in defending the country against possible attacks. And India and Pakistan's test explosions show that nuclear weapons are again being spread to new countries. In other words, the situation is unprecedented internationally, and it is important that Norway does what we can to reverse developments. Norway needs to use the channels we have to influence. I'm glad of the answer Vollebæk gave to the interpellant. At the same time, I am pleased with Norway's criticism of the Senate as they refused to ratify the probation agreement. In total, this indicates that Norway has become clearer in its vision and more willing to use the channels we have to influence. Investigations have shown that 92 pst. of the Norwegian people are against nuclear weapons, and it obliges us. It is therefore important, in the opinion of the Centre Party, that the Minister of Foreign Affairs continues to make the necessary changes so that we can have a text of resolution that is possible for Norway to vote in favour of. But we also think it is important that Norway actively uses the channels we have to fight for nuclear disarmament.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e888	Some of the things that have made the most impression on me in recent years are a book of pictures taken by a Japanese military photographer who came to Nagasaki a couple of hours after the nuclear bomb was released across the city. The suffering that is discovered there — and which is also illustrated by the interpellant — makes it absolutely clear that the use of nuclear weapons in itself is a crime against humanity and a crime against all civilized behaviour. I therefore think it is very positive that Marit Nybakk has taken up this interview, and I do not in any way agree with Siri Frost Sterri's criticism that you have to know the American President's travel programme before you can take up an interview on significant issues in the Stortinget. Nuclear weapons were perceived by all of us as the great threat during the Cold War. Then it was the fear of an all-encompassing nuclear war that we were most concerned about. That danger is by all likelihood above, but the danger of using nuclear weapons in conflict is probably greater than it was during the cold war. We are facing a potential danger that medium-sized countries, totally unstable countries, even terrorist groups may be in possession of nuclear weapons in the coming years. So I'm a little worried about what I see as too much diplomatic excellence in the foreign minister's posts. When the intentions of the motions for resolutions of the 7 countries are clearly good – it was also confirmed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs – when it comes not to paria states or dictatorships but to serious and important co-players in order to find an international control regime, our starting point cannot be to weave this into an endless array of diplomatic fines to assess whether we should vote in favour or against. The SV's view is that we should vote in favour of the resolution. SV will also – we will see how it develops in the next few weeks or days – consider making proposals in the UK to ask the Government to vote in favour of such a resolution. It has been focused on India and Pakistan entering the resolution. Of course, I share that view. On the other hand, I do not share the view of some speakers that India and Pakistan are the main problem. It must be focused on those powers that have an incredible number of nuclear weapons, which still possess them, and where it is largely a political tool in the world. As long as neither Russia nor America is willing to reduce enough, it will be difficult – I say not impossible, but difficult – to impose on other countries the control regimes we need. And if Norway doesn't vote, I'm afraid that in the international community this is not perceived as anything but that we're a little bit too afraid to distance ourselves from American politics. We're going to be perceived as walking in American footsteps. That's how it's going to be viewed in almost the rest of the world, no matter what diplomatic features and sides of the resolution we here in the Great Britain focus on when it might be decided to abstain from voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e899	Developing nuclear weapons took a relatively short time, at least from a practical point of view — just a few years. It's already taken a lot longer to limit the proliferation of nuclear weapons and achieve the goal we have, namely to dismantle nuclear weapons. Besides, even if we're going to get the nuclear weapons wound up, we'll unfortunately be in the situation that the actual knowledge of how they're being produced will be there. Nuclear weapons have already led to great suffering and represent a great potential for even greater suffering. It represents in many ways the great threat to humanity. As Marit Nybakk pointed out, of the so-called ABC weapons, the biological and chemical weapons are prohibited. Unfortunately, nuclear weapons are not yet prohibited, although the non-proliferation agreement must be perceived as a ban on nuclear weapons for those countries that do not have nuclear weapons in advance. Work to prevent proliferation and to reduce the number of nuclear weapons, with final resolution as a target, is important. And in many ways is the most serious thing that is quite topical, despite all the situation in India and Pakistan, and it must be taken seriously and must necessarily be included in a resolution on nuclear weapons that is to be adopted today. The left is pleased with the extensive and strong commitment shown by the Foreign Minister’s statement on this issue. Like the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the left is clearly in favour of the objectives of a resolution which gives a clear message of a desire to move forward in the process of nuclear disarmament. On the issue of procedure and the texts of resolutions that will be acceptable, it is a question of what is appropriate and useful and can be a difficult balancing issue. On behalf of the Left, I would like to express the hope that the Foreign Minister, in cooperation with other countries, will succeed in reaching a formulation of the text of the resolution which will enable Norway to express its real position on these issues, namely to provide clear support for non-proliferation. And just for the sake of order: in our opinion, the only option to vote for will be to abstain from voting, not to vote against, as Siri Frost Sterri on behalf of the Right expressed it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e912	Let's not worry about everything that's been done, completely forget all that's actually happened. 90 pst. of the nuclear capacity in Western Europe is gone, it is built up. So we have significant results on strategic disarmament, we have decisive results on the old discussion on medium-range missiles, and we have significant results on nuclear tactical nuclear weapons. But there's a lot left. And what is worrying, of course, is that neither the Russian stupid nor the American Congress is in the situation that they care about something in particular about UN resolutions. In these countries, there is little popular pressure on these issues, and the same applies in a little too many other countries. That is why it is in itself worthwhile that, in this way, for the second consecutive year, we get these things up to a public debate, which may not bring together too much public interest, but which is nevertheless absolutely necessary if we are to push this process forward. I feel that the moments that the Foreign Minister has pointed out are defending his place, and I expect him to put the serious work into what he always puts in the follow-up to his response here in Stortinget, so that we get into a situation where we can now vote for an improved resolution. I refer to what both the inter-pellant and the foreign minister have said on that question. It is beyond doubt that we were also occupied by some of the same weaknesses that existed last year, namely that the text of the resolution of the first non-mentioned country that should be mentioned, but, secondly, could also contribute to the pulverisation of the responsibility for this process by introducing it into a broad disarmament forum where everyone was sitting and looking at each other, while in reality there is a need to point to someone. And that's this point of someone, the current nuclear power, including India and Pakistan, which is a leaping point if we're going to carry this process forward and up to the goal in a not too invincible future. But I repeat: I feel that the main point is that in too many countries these issues are now lower on the political agenda than they did for some years. That's the main problem. There I feel that the Minister of Foreign Affairs and others from a similar country have a special responsibility to try to consult to get out of this ditch in which we find ourselves in many ways, because there are so few signs of movement both in Moscow and in the western nuclear states.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e923	That's about. a year ago an equivalent interpellation was recorded, so this is to the extent that the only annual harvest exercise taking place – the military has become so in terms of resources. Having said that, I just want to make it clear that on behalf of the Progress Party, we had a clear desire last year to vote against the New Agenda Coalition resolution, and it was – just to repeat it – linked to our role in the alliance. And then when we see the vote result from last year, where it was Turkey together with the nuclear powers within NATO that voted against, I think we should have belonged to that group. So now a majority of NATO countries chose to give up, and the situation is that what is now challenging is to look ahead to an amended proposal. As far as I understand, the change in what I want to call substance is not, and I think in that situation we should record that the best thing we can hope for is that the government will also this time abstain from voting, if that's the course of other NATO states. Our anchoring should be up to our leading allies and less to being groundbreaking and propelling through symbolic power. I think we just have to record that despite the ban on chemical and biological weapons, the threat of using such weapons has not been particularly reduced in an unstable and troubled world. The danger is precisely in our days, as others have pointed out, great that the threat of the use of nuclear weapons can also increase in the time to come. Then there will be a need to be able to meet these threats, not only with words and voting that are going well, but by being realistic, as I also understood the representative Dagrun Eriksen, in relation to the text of the resolution and its handling. In the opinion of the Progress Party, we cannot simply be the big proponents of symbols without also looking at the realistic consequences. Without comparison, I would say that being a nation of the past and, like, doing all things very well in an idealistic context, can have some negative consequences. For example, I would like to point out that the CFE agreement that was concluded in its time gave Norway a very low and idealistic thank-you on armoured personnel vehicles. It was carried out during the current Prime Minister's period as Minister of Foreign Affairs. The consequence today is that we are not even able to take home the vehicles that we operate in the former Yugoslavia. So from our side, we just want to say no. We realize that it will not be possible, and our call is, in relation to the text that exists, to renounce.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e934	I would like to thank you for a factual and fine debate, and join in what Bjørn Tore Godal said that it is important once a year to have these matters put on the agenda and get a proper debate. To Siri Frost Sterri: I would like to stress that, first of all, I cannot see any connection between President Clinton's visit and this interpellation. Moreover, it is true that no presidential visit, whether from the United States or elsewhere, could deprive Norway of responsibility for addressing important issues in the national Parliament, and the timing here was also the UN reading of the NAC resolution and not the presidential visit. Then I would like to stress that I think it is important that we do not rank or prioritize the nuclear powers. Our goal must be to remove nuclear weapons. I will also refer again to what Godal said about the nuclear powers, expressing the same concern that there is very little discussion and little movement, and that opinion is not particularly strong in terms of getting rid of nuclear weapons in a number of these nuclear powers. I will repeat what I have said, and ask the Foreign Minister to follow up what he has started, i.e. the process of, among other things. to bring in India and Pakistan, and other questions that have been raised by several speakers in this debate. I also find reason to agree with the Engretsen that it may not be so strange that a fundamental scepticism is expressed to the will of the nuclear powers, not to say the ability, to operate with nuclear disarmament. Unfortunately, evolution shows that the nuclear threat may be greater than it has been for a long time, despite the disarmament we've had. I am very pleased with the measures proposed by Norway in the 1st UN Committee, which the Minister for Foreign Affairs explained that the supervisory process of the non-proliferation agreement is being revitalised, that a working group is being set up at the Geneva Disarmament Conference, that Russia must, of course, ratify the START II agreement as soon as possible, that the United States and Russia should start negotiations on a START III agreement and that tactical nuclear weapons must enter into the disarmament policy agenda. I think this is commendable. However, I would ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to continue working to vote in favour of the NAC resolution, and also to ask how Norway will further address nuclear issues in other multilateral organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e947	As I explained in my main post, the Government is actively working to create a new giver in international nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation work. Our view is that we need, first and foremost, new momentum and momentum in the existing agenda and established processes, rather than creating a new agenda. The most important thing now will be to lay the groundwork for progress at the Conference of Supervisors for the Spring Non-Proliferation Agreement and to enter into negotiations on an agreement prohibiting the production of fissile material for nuclear purposes. Another important task in the future will be to move in the multilateral dialogue on nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation within the framework of the non-proliferation agreement and the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva. The rapid Russian ratification of the START II Agreement and the launch of negotiations on further strategic strength reductions between the United States and Russia will make a significant contribution in this context, by creating new optimism and demonstrating that nuclear powers take their responsibility seriously. I would like to remind you that the resolution we have discussed today is one of the dozen resolutions on nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation which are being discussed during this year's general meeting. We must not forget that Norway supports a number of resolutions in this area. Together with Japan, we aim to promote a resolution on nuclear disarmament with a view to eliminating nuclear weapons under strict and effective international control. We support the resolution calling for the establishment of the entire southern hemisphere as a nuclear-free zone, a resolution that emphasises the importance of Africa as a nuclear-free zone and the resolution on a ban on the militarisation of space. I would like to stress that consultations are still ongoing within the 7-country group on the final text design. Norway has an ongoing dialogue with our related NATO allies on this issue and, of course, with the NAC countries, particularly Sweden. The government's decision on Norwegian voting will depend on us getting an impact on a text that reflects the Norwegian views. I would like to stress that relinquishing a resolution does not mean that you have no meaning. It just means in this context that we see the intentions and support them, but nevertheless the design, the way the intentions have been treated, is not good enough. And I hardly think that Solheim's representative will in any case think that just the intentions are good, we're going to go for it. We have to see things in a slightly larger context. It will also be my answer to the representative of the Engebrats: of course, we have to see the text of the resolution in the final context, but India and Pakistan are important in this overall context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e958	As a result, the interpellant debate has ended.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e970	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see next column]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e983	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-04.ana.ud2514e998	In Case No. Case No. 2 and Case No. No voting theme is available.
