ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e68	The representatives of Haakon Blankenborg, Carl I. Hagen, Gunn Karin Gjul, Morten Lund and Siri Frost Sterri, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The called alternates, for Hordaland County Magnar Lussand and for Eastfold County Morten Olsen, have taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e96	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e101	I propose Aud Blattmann and Asmund Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e106	Aud Blattmann and Asmund Kristoffersen are proposed as chairmen. – Other proposals are not available, and Aud Blattmann and Asmund Kristoffersen are unanimously elected as chairpersons of today’s meeting. The President will propose that this morning's sitting, if necessary, continue beyond the scheduled time at noon. 15.00 until the current map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to this proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e120	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 50 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Working Party 35 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Centre Party and the Left 10 minutes each, and the Socialist Left Party and the Representative Bastesen 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches by the main speakers for each party group and after contributions by members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to three minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e131	It is very positive to say about the situation in Norwegian business and Norwegian social economy. The interest rate is too low, inflation is low, the importance of moderate wage settlement is rediscovered, and the oil price is record high. The most important indicator for me is that unemployment is very low compared to in our neighbouring countries. Industry has not flagged out, and foreign capital has not fled, as many predicted five years ago. We should take time to discuss the reasons why in some areas it is not going as well, why some industries are lacking jobs, and why some industries and places are losing in the fight for personnel. However, I think we should also take time to find the reasons why things are going so well, in order to avoid the benefits we have being thrown overboard in trouble. Many of the industries that go well, for example: fisheries, aquaculture, oil and heavy industry, have in the past, and do so in part, continue to benefit from protective laws, which are now called discriminatory laws. If an extended WTO agreement had come 30 years ago, the situation in those industries would be quite different. Our protective laws for employees in terms of employment and working hours are stricter and stiffer than the corresponding laws in our neighbouring countries, but it may be essential that employees have kept peace and done their best. What do we lose by ‘modernising’ in this area? Maybe low taxes in total, at least in relation to what we get left, are a national advantage when we read statistics that say that the tax is 43 pst. of GDP in Norway versus 51 pst. in Sweden. Perhaps even Norwegian food prices are a cost-reduction factor if we take the break by comparing prices and wage levels in different countries? At least we shouldn't say the opposite so often. There is a broad consensus in the budget position of the Business Committee that oil dependence needs to be reduced and that direct involvement and incentives must help to make investments, research and development, innovation and innovation more targeted at businesses in mainland Norway. The government's efforts to facilitate the operation of the industry in Norway are supported by the Committee's enthusiasm. Here's a lot to pick up! The Committee has underlined the importance of building skills in small enterprises by increasing the appropriations of the Institute of Technology and the Institute of Guidance in North Norway by 7 million respectively. and 2 million. kr. The importance of these two institutions retaining such a large amount of government funding that they are not forced to increase the volume of business of the large companies with good advice was also emphasised in the treatment of the notification. A unanimous committee will strengthen the economy of shipyards by speeding up the payment of yard support, so that half is paid for by cooling. This will make the conditions for yard aid as favourable as in the main competitor countries. The Economic and Social Committee is concerned that the competence can be maintained in oil-related suppliers. The centre party is pleased with the measures proposed by the Government and the Financial Committee in the autumn. It is also important to show in practice that oil companies that contribute most to the smoothing of the activity are rewarded. The value of having national control over fishing resources in a very large and rich sea area can hardly be overestimated. Both to ensure sound management of resources and to contribute to new value creation, increased research efforts are important. The new research vessel is a starting point for this effort. The Economic and Social Committee has for a long time been involved in the organisation of new areas of aquaculture growth. The Committee has pointed out that the wide range of opportunities in the shellfish industry cannot be exploited until there is a sufficient and reasonable control system for algal poisons. The Committee is committed to clarifying the responsibilities between the departments concerned. The Committee has pointed to the uncertainty in agriculture caused by income deficits related to overproduction, increasing border trade and possible transfer rates in the future due to the new WTO negotiations. The Central Party considers that there is no reason to make advances in WTO adjustments. The last few days of unrest in Seattle may have contributed to the fact that free trade in food does not receive the right to drive that many have seen. Ways in which we can ensure that the income gap between food producers and others is reduced become a central theme of the agricultural notification. The Central Party will see this investigation and hear the opinion of the people on the Government's proposals, before we give more signals on the future structure of use, border protection and commodity prices. At the same time, I see no drama in the fact that the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party repeat well-known views. A clear trend across Europe is that health and health care and safe food are given much greater emphasis than before. Norwegian agriculture wants strict rules on additives, genetic engineering, animal protection and plant protection. The size has to choose the agricultural side and the people's side on the issues we are going to deal with on these issues. Then I want to mention a correction in the setting that concerns the heading of the cap. 2411, «Rent of loans to the State Agricultural Bank», which shall be amended to «Rent of loans for agricultural purposes». This is on page 76 of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e163	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e166	The head of the Industry Committee Morten Lund begins by saying that he is very satisfied with developments in the Norwegian business sector and that he is now satisfied that there has been no deflagration of business. That developments have been good, Lund is quite right, but at the same time we see that one of the major challenges now is to preserve national ownership in Norwegian business. It would be unfortunate if Norway were to be lost for industry or other business environments and competences. There are many measures that, in total, can help to counteract this. State ownership is not in any way a goal in itself, but a tool, among other things. to safeguard national ownership. The Labour Party proposed several measures during its term of government: we proposed a technology fund, an environmental fund and an investment company. We have now negotiated this with the centre parties about and at least got them so far that one should sort out the possibility of using such an investment company – a partnership between state and business. Now the representative Lund has repeatedly become the spokesman for national ownership, and also in many contexts for a state ownership. And my question is, what does the representative Lund really mean about such an investment fund in partnership between the state and business? Is he for such a fund, on the basis of what he has previously signaled, and is there, in that case, a rather inconceivable interdependence of the centre party on such a measure? Or could Lund somehow stand out as a guarantor that this might come into place?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e175	I think it was right to initiate my contribution by recalling the horrors that were five years ago that foreign capital was going to escape from Norway. It hasn't happened. I am concerned about foreign purchases of key companies in Norway. I was so glad that Thorbjørn Jagland made it a point in his contribution to the throne debate that we now had to put an end to a bit of Norway's sales. I was similarly disappointed when I saw what was the Workers' Party's position when it came to the banking structure, and that the part of Norway called the Credit Bank could not be secured through that treatment, one month after Thorbjørn Jagland made his contribution to the throne debate that we now had to take action to end the sale of Norway. It's one of the greatest disappointments I've ever had. When it comes to preventing foreign purchases of the key companies, I think it is a good idea to have an investment fund identified. It has also been said in the financial position of the government parties and of the Workers' Party that we must do that. I think getting into a partnership between state and private capital is a better way to do it than having a purely state-owned investment fund. I think we need more investment funds of slightly larger size than what we've been talking about before, when we think about what amounts are needed to secure some of the big businesses that I feel there is a broad consensus here that we need to secure Norwegian ownership of. Taking action to ensure stable and good ownership, preventing foreign acquisitions of the most important enterprises and preventing the relocation of head offices, with what they carry, from Norway, are among the points on which the Workers' Party and the Centre Government must agree.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e184	The representative Lund just said in the reply with Torstein Rudihagen that the biggest disappointment he had had in the fall was that not Thorbjørn Jagland had followed up what he had said earlier in the debate on the throne. This may indicate that Lund did not have great trials during the harvest. He said a little about agricultural policy in his speech. I think it might have been a little strange that a nutritionist spokesperson for the Center Party almost avoided it in his post. It is that the centre parties have little interest in thinking about the position we are dealing with, whether it be the WTO, the use of BU funds, how to view price developments, or what it might be. I have a question for Lund that goes on this using BU funds. It's actually like there's been hundreds of millions spent. kr in recent years to build up capacity at a time when one has also had overproduction. Now we find that overproduction reaches new heights, and that considerable funds are being spent on the dumping of Norwegian meat that is now being sold. The majority say that it has to stop building up to overproduction using these BU funds. However, it is a note that does not include the government parties. Does that mean that the Central Party actually believes that we still have to build up to overproduction using BU funds, so that we get products that have to be dumped next time?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e193	The centre party does not wish in any way to avoid an agricultural debate. We are very concerned about discussing the future of agriculture and the way in which we should ensure people healthy, safe and adequate food. It's going to be a big deal in the future, I'm not in doubt about that. I'm just referring to the top essay in the news today. But we do not want to address at this point the issue of price developments in agricultural products, the structure of use in the future and future border protection when, in two weeks' time, we receive an agricultural communication that will provide the basis for that debate. I think it is important to get that basis on the table, and we also want to have a debate out there among people before the final conclusions are drawn by the Stortinget. In the case of overproduction, agriculture itself is responsible for it and for the costs resulting from such production. And we think it's right that those who sit in governing bodies to distribute those funds also have to assess the way the funds are to be used. We also raise a index for overproduction, but we consider it a matter of course that we do not have to decide in the Storting on the detailed use of those funds. It may still be the case for part of the production where too much is produced today that one in some parts of the country wants to strengthen the basis of production in order to avoid driving again and again of both live animals and products. But, as I said, we have confidence that those from agriculture who are part of the bodies that distribute these funds do so on the basis of what is best for the agricultural economy, and also on the basis of the environmental conditions to be taken into account in determining where to produce in Norway and the extent to which it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e200	The centre party has at the bottom of the budget. S. No 8 noted that agriculture should be a cornerstone of maintaining housing and employment in rural areas and that it is important for the Government to continue its efforts to maintain a national action space for the formulation of agricultural policy. What does the Center Party add to this? The Party considers that increased use of production neutral forms of support and more active use of the market to influence production volume and price will lead to an agricultural sector that is more responsible, inter alia, for itself. overproduction. With the well-regulated, support-based and protected starting point that Norwegian agriculture has today, I would ask: does not the Centre soon see a need for a shift of this policy to a less subsidising agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e209	It is not the main objective of the Central Party in terms of agricultural policy, as it is for the Progress Party, that food should be as cheap as possible. We have many objectives for our agricultural policy, where housing is one of the most important. Ensuring safe and healthy food is another, which I think people are going to make bigger and bigger demands in the future. And I'm sure that the best way to assure consumers about the food quality they want is to maintain what we have today, to avoid pushing farmers into cheating with quality, cheating with drug and hormone supplements, as one does in some other countries. The need for a national action space for a separate agricultural policy should be obvious. We have a different geography and climate than some of our competitors have. This is the broad consensus on the Stortinget. But the Progress Party has a different view of reality. They don't think this is important. And I think it's okay that we get it out of the debate we're getting in the future, that consumers around – when they put forward demands for safe food supply, and they want healthy food without additives – are clearly informed by the Progress Party that that party believes something quite different, namely that we're going to get our food from a world market where it flows over most of it, but where we're not sure what the food content is. I look forward to that debate, and hope that the Progress Party goes high on the ground, is clear, as the individual people are here in Stortinget, and gets the consequences of their food supply policy, in terms of housing and all the other conditions that go under what is called multifunctional agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e216	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e220	Today, the Storting manages important framework conditions for Norwegian business. We do that on the threshold of a new millennium, above all to an increasing degree of transition from an industrial society to a knowledge society. We are faced with great challenges when it comes to creating new businesses and new jobs. And it's a good thing to be very strong in saying that the budgets we're dealing with today are taking on the heights of the challenges we're facing. Yes, it's probably also strong in saying that the budgetary agreement has changed significantly on the possibilities of just meeting these challenges we're facing. But it's a small step in the right direction, and I'm going to come back to the items in the equation that point in that direction. The biggest deficit in the budgets we are dealing with today is that they make little reference to measures to help bring about the new industries that are going to replace what is falling away. If we don't have the power to create a climate for the emergence of new knowledge products and ideas, and if we don't have the power to get the tools that make them established in our country and stay in our country, we're going to have a big problem getting the jobs to replace those who fall away. I just want to point out this conflict we've had about a tool that points in that direction, that's the establishment of an IT knowledge centre at Fornebu. It's almost unlikely that we'll have to fight here in the house once in a while to establish a center that can be with and make the thousands of flowers bloom. If we look around, we see that Finland has power over it, Ireland has power over it, Israel has power over it, and now Sweden and Denmark have power over it, but in Norway – yes, I am waiting anxiously for the seventeenth, to see if we here in our country have both visions and ambitions to meet the challenges we face. Now you might say that the seed funds created have been successful. And the Minister of Industry has traveled around, especially in the interior of the country, and boasted that he got a seed fund there. The actual ratio is that it came after handling here in the house, but we could like to divide the era. The most important thing is that it has come. I don't ignore the fact that we need to create more seed funds to create competition between these funds, so that we can develop the skills to pick out the good ideas, and so that we get what we see in many other countries, a far greater ability to take care of the new product and service ideas. National ownership has been discussed for a long time. I don't mind getting foreign capital into Norway, we may need that. But there is danger when more and more Norwegian businesses are bought up by interests outside the country. I only see the Newspaper from yesterday, where the first page was that "Norway is bought up". It shows that more and more Norwegian companies are on sale, and buyers are largely from our neighbouring countries or more distant countries. It told me that we were forced to have a cab that could be a support for Norwegian business, partly not to be bought up. However, when Norwegian companies are bought up, companies often find themselves in a situation where they either have to buy up or be bought up. That is why we need a tool that can help Norwegian businesses to buy out, so that they can become stronger. I'm absolutely sure that in time, we're going to see more examples like this. I could have named them here, but I'll leave them. They will come in order. Therefore, I sincerely hope that what has been said in the budget agreement that an investment company should be divested will be taken seriously, and that it is not just a formulation that the government will perceive so that now they have ample time. We mean seriously when we want to have an investment company in common between the state and the private sector that can be a trip for Norwegian business in the context I have now mentioned. It is strange that Norwegian industry also calls for it. Why, then, is it so hard to get it in place? There must be some ideological barriers somewhere to this realization. State council Sponheim has long tried to be a hot spokesman for small and medium-sized enterprises. I must honestly say that when I saw the budget, I began to suspect that this was not quite right. There were formulations under both the Institute of Technology and the Institute of Guidance in North Norway that could indicate that he would privatise that piece of guidance service for small and medium-sized enterprises. The consulting service has already been privatised; it happened last year. And if it is that one will liquidate state subsidies to the Institute of Technology and the VINN, then we will be without the means for the many small and medium-sized enterprises in the important phase of creating new products and product ideas. I'm glad the committee has decided that this is a line we won't follow. The maritime industries are predicted to be a bright future in Norway, and I think it's a broad deal that it will be. The Committee has pointed out, in a number of respects, the measures necessary for the promotion and development of these industries, not least in the case of differences. It is therefore strange that it should not be possible within a budget to fully finance an analytical apparatus for the Veterinary Institute. And what surprises me even more was the message that came yesterday that the Norwegian Research Council had rejected an application from the Veterinary College for contributions to research on algae and algae poisons. This industry was not worth NOK 580,000 over three years! I'm asking that the government now really take the maritime industries seriously, so that we can get the growth that we're after. Or I'd like to fix an error in a Roman number decision, X, which came in at a time when there were multiples for this comment. A comment that could give such a decision is no longer available. It disappeared in 12 hours. I just want to say that in X go 'and the remarks in budget input. [[1999 - 2000]] S. No 8
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e241	The setting will be corrected at this point. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e246	Within the framework area 11, i.e. the agricultural piece, the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party stand together on some comments to underline the importance of bringing prices down on Norwegian food. We also agree to strengthen the situation of the full-time farmer, and we point out the problems of the large border trade leakage, and that it reinforces the problems of Norwegian food production. There has been a debate on the border trade leakage. We know that Prime Minister candidate Thorbjørn Jagland has been involved in this by wanting to reduce the taxes on alcohol, but unfortunately we did not get a solution in the budget agreement, so that the problems in this area are as big as they have been. Now Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, an agricultural policy spokesman, has said on a number of occasions that we need to reduce food prices by approx. 20 pst. That is well and good, we strongly support that in the Progress Party. But how we're going to get this done, says the Workers' Party little about, because what they say about prioritising the full-time users, as it is formulated, will not be nearly enough to get this done. What is the Workers' Party's intention to propose that something really happens in this area, in order to achieve this price reduction, which simply means keeping away from and stabilising price differences between Norway and our neighbouring countries due to Agenda 2000?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e257	It has been said for a long time by the Labour Party that we are facing major challenges in agricultural policy. It can be worded in terms that we have to bring down the food prices, we have to bring down the transfers, and we have to raise the incomes of the farmers. It's an equation that isn't easy to go up. I don't think anyone has the exact answers on how to do it either. But admitting that we have these challenges is a good start, that's where you have to start. And then we're going to try to do this so that we don't kill those debts, on the road -- but that's what the Progress Party will do -- because then we don't have any farmers left, and then it's pretty easy to bring down the prices, at least to bring them down in line with what else is in Europe and in our neighboring country. I think it is much better that we recognize that we have to deal with this, and then spend some time finding a tool. I can promise the representative Hedstrøm that the Labour Party will come back to the measures we want to put in, when we will deal with the Norwegian agriculture message, which is promised before Christmas, and I also expect it to come before Christmas. There will then be a clarification of these areas of spring, but I doubt that there will be some cooperation between the Progress Party and the Labour Party on the means we have to put into that context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e264	There is an intense debate about food quality in many countries, and it is specifically linked to the EU Directive on food additives, but also to the Food Directive and the Directive on baby foods, which regulates the theme of genetically modified foods. There have been wide-ranging recommendations in different countries, but the EU has adopted its directives, and there are now issues whether they should also be forced into Norway through the EEA Agreement. I think there is growing concern, and that there is increasing reason to point to the precautionary principle in terms of what we mix in the food we are going to have. Today, it was announced that consumer organisations in six European countries have carried out studies on the health risks of the additives we are currently dealing with, among others. has demonstrated a cancer hazard from nitrate addition in food. In ordinary foods that we eat every day, there are substances that can produce cancer. The Norwegian professionals say that we have said that for a long time, this is nothing new. And then today we're going to have a discussion in the Storting on the issue of banning antibiotics in animal feed, where a majority of the Storing also says that the evidence is not clear enough that this is dangerous, we have to wait until we have certain evidence, because this can go beyond some jobs. However, the Labour Party is not involved in this debate. The Labour Party is not involved in the debate in Norway on whether we should be strict, or whether we should be yielding in terms of healthy and safe food. Is the reason why the Labour Party does not have a view on such an important matter?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e273	I can assure the representative Morten Lund that the Labour Party is at least as busy with food quality and food security as the Center Party. But it is not certain that we have the same need to hang this in EU directives and other conditions as one might or might not have the same. I do not understand this discussion that Europe otherwise, in this case the EU, is so much less busy with food security than we are here at home. I've never experienced it as a problem, at least not when we're out traveling. No one asks questions about the quality of food when we travel, neither do we know what we do when we are out, nor what we take with us in the suitcase at home. So I think it's a gross understatement of what our neighboring country has in view of this. If these additives are now found to be carcinogenic, I am absolutely sure that they will take the deepest seriousness in the EU as well. And you don't have to use this as a scare campaign against the EU and our close neighbours, because it's not that we're so much better in this area than our neighbours. So I suggest that Morten Lund and the Senterpartie now find other battlefields and other arguments that they don't like the EU – we understand that they don't. I don't want to tell you what time they come up with better thoughts.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e282	I think the representative Opseth started very freshly when he stated that the budgetary agreement takes very little account of the challenges facing us in the nation, and that the agreement only slightly points to the challenges we have to face, especially in view of the so-called new industries that should and should have growth conditions in our country as well. It is a paradox that the entire budget must be understood in such a way that it is the competitive Norwegian business that has been paid the price for the acceptance of the cash support by the Workers' Party. Opseth himself was concerned with the fact that we see trends in the usual Norwegian balance of payments in trade and exports changing in our disfavor. We see that in the first nine months of the year, foreign capital has invested three times more in Norway than Norwegian capital has done abroad. We also see that the growth in mainland Norway's exports is now almost halting completely. So we have a trend that's going in the wrong direction, and despite the fact that we have a huge surplus in our balance of payments, and that we have a state ownership of Norwegian business as never before. That's when I have to ask, what is the solution? How will Opseth be able to reverse the negative trend that we are now seeing in the Norwegian competitive industry? It does not stop by just pointing out that there is a need for action here. In this case, the measures have to be different from what is currently the preferred solution, namely even greater state ownership in Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e291	I need to remind the representative of Kristiansen that the Right has been on the budget with the Government for two years, and also that, beyond the 1990s, we had a growth in industrial employment that has now turned around and is in decline. Perhaps there may be these budgetary differences that the Government has had with the Right Party and the Progress Party for two years, which is why we have had the negative development. At least it can't have come because of the reconciliation that's now done, because it's not yet done. But it may be that the agreement that the Government has now made with the Workers' Party will help reverse the trend, at least it's a hope. I confirm that I would like to have seen several elements in the Workers' Party's nutrition package embedded in the budget agreement, but there's a good deal there, and that's good, because it's going in the right direction. So one would like to say that there are some people who have to pay something more tax. Yeah, that's right. But it's not primarily the businesses that pay taxes, which is our biggest challenge. Our biggest challenge is that there are too few companies that pay taxes and too few companies that become established, especially in the context of competitive business. I believe that the representative of Kristiansen should be a little cautious in judging the settlement that has now been concluded, and the effect of it. I hope that if we can continue to cooperate, we will get several measures that go in the right direction for Norwegian business, because there are many small ones standing on the steps to establish themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e300	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e303	I will use my allocated time to refer to the framework area 11, the agricultural component, which is the responsibility allocated to the most subsidies and subsidies, with appropriations of the order of DKK 14 billion. Other representatives of the Progress Party will address other areas. What strikes you is that the approach of agricultural transfer is as prominent as that of the majority of the members of the Committee. Sorrow and innovation shine with their absence. It's the easiest way to let things go like before. Norwegian farmers, together with their Swiss colleagues, have more support than in other European countries. All support schemes for agriculture, including the screening aid, provide a level of support of more than DKK 20 billion per year. years. If you divide the amount of 70 000 farmers, we approach a sum of 300000 kroner for each Norwegian farmer, or 30 000 kroner in expenses for an average Norwegian two-child family. The Progress Party wants to give a different priority to the use of people's tax money. Many of these billions could have been spent on health care and care for the elderly, or on reducing taxes and charges for individuals and businesses. This will also be followed up with marked cuts in the agricultural sector by the Progress Party. The Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right have in common comments in the setting would place greater emphasis on the situation of the full-time farmer. The same majority emphasises the importance of price reductions in Norwegian food products, but no consensus is expressed on the means to achieve these objectives. The majority correctly states that all price-driven items from land to table have to be reviewed in this work, and that is good and good. It is important and important because it can provide answers to the share of the cost of consumption that the different parts of the value chain represent. It is also possible to identify which rates are more expensive in Norway than in comparable countries. If this is made visible, the results can be presented as a basis for public opinion formation and decisions in the Stortinget. But a prerequisite must be that the majority is willing to follow this up, so that consumers can experience real price reductions in food. According to the media, the extension of the agricultural notification will include proposals for policy measures to bring food prices down here in the country. In the view of the Party of Progress, it would not be possible to introduce differentiated VAT at a lower rate for foodstuffs. Nor is price cut on agricultural products through economic compensation for the loss of prices over the agricultural agreement a good solution. It will do consumers and farmers a bear service. Consumers have to pay the value in the form of increased contributions above the tax bill by not pressing the farmers strongly enough to produce efficiently. Farmers will lose if they do not gradually adapt to a competitive situation which will become more prevalent as a result of international relations. It is high time that the self-employed in the food production industry were given opportunities and revenues as a result of increased competition and more efficient farming. As part of this, agriculture must be deregulated. The regulatory responsibility of the cooperative must be replaced by competition law in order to achieve lower consumer prices. Furthermore, more room for self-development must be given to industrious farmers through, among other things,: repeals the concessional limit for the acquisition of livestock, abolishes all production restrictions, abolishes restrictions on the sale of land and forest property, abolishes the State’s pre-purchase rights for agricultural property, repeals the provisions on housing and compulsory employment and much more, much more. In fact, today in Norway, a farmer is being criminalised if he produces large, efficient and cheap. It follows that we want to wind up the system of agricultural agreements. It is a comprehensive and unbridled business agreement, an enormously complicated affair with a large red tape linked to unbridled circumstances, and where only a few people have the full picture when important questions are settled. In the next round, it means the detailed management of the Norwegian farmer, who is basked and tied to the hands and feet of grant and regulation schemes. The number of grant schemes currently in excess of 100 tends to increase and each grant scheme has detailed legislation. There was a big red tape needed to manage this whole device. Thousands of public servants raise wages and salaries to keep track of all payments, applications and checks. The need for conversion is obvious. It must be a goal to get most of these bureaucrats into more productive work. We are in the middle of a debate on increased labour migration to Norway. A part of meeting the need for labour should be to free people from the agricultural bureaucracy, and some farmers may, after retraining, find their place in society through jobs in establishments contributing to significant economic value creation. An overall committee is concerned with the growing border trade with Sweden, and with good reason. Only in the border counties of Eastfold, where I come from, will the border trade this year rise to well over NOK 2 billion. Meat and other foodstuffs account for a large percentage, and all arrows point upwards. The budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Government has not provided any help or hope for solving the problem. The large price differences in food and other baits in Norway and Sweden give very negative results in Norwegian disfavor. In the time of the Christmas trade, we will get endless cows from the cars of the North that flow across the border. We've got an area on the other side of the fridge that's now called Little Norway – a growing, happy society where you're pretty much just meeting the buyers. Too many people have the only opportunity to protest against Norwegian agricultural and tax policies. The Progress Party, in its alternative state budget, has taken on board the consequences of this and presented its own border-trade package with a sharp reduction in the special Norwegian alcohol and tobacco taxes and a reduction in the aerated tax and the levy on chocolate and sugar products. It is also necessary to reduce organised crime. We know that international gangs and mobs are involved in the smuggling of alcohol and cigarettes, and it may also be the same as drug smuggling. That's why this is going to be a lot of priority from our side. EU agricultural reform will further reduce food prices in our neighbouring country in the coming years. New groups will change the pattern of trade and thus contribute to increased overproduction of Norwegian agricultural products. Today the result is that Norwegian meat and milk are dumped on the world market for a candy and nothing. 19 000 tonnes of prima bovine and porcine meat will be dumped this year. But as of next year, the WTO Agreement sets clear limits on these exports. That's how the Progress Party wanted it all the time within today's system. If it is to be dumped, it must of course be done in the Norwegian market. In this way, consumers can recover some of their expensively paid subsidies through lower prices. That is in line with what the Economic and Social Committee has said earlier. It is a law of more than 60 years that regulates international dumping, that is, the law on turnover, which we want to remove because it is not in accordance with the interests of consumers. The majority consisting of the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right refer to in the comments in the vote on the importance of WTO negotiations for the future framework conditions in Norwegian agriculture. Norway has been met with strong requirements for customs reductions in agricultural products in Seattle. We learn that members of the organisation are in a tough attack on attempts to give Norwegian agriculture a special position. Many countries have difficulties in accepting the Norwegian term ‘multi-functionality’, which was used as an attempt in the negotiations to justify the lifting of agricultural products out of the general discussion on tariffs for goods. We believe it would be directly unrealistic to ignore the significant competitive exposure of the agricultural sector. Although the Seattle negotiations have given a temporary setback, we cannot stop a trend towards freer world trade and globalisation. It's a matter of time. The Progress Party expects the Government’s big message on agricultural policy, to be presented in the near future, to outline possible solutions to these issues. I have said this before: the longer the responsible authorities wait to take the necessary decisions, the bigger the problems. This could mean that large parts of agriculture are being uncompetitive or have to go through a painful process of conversion, which will put deep traces behind them. I would like to mention proposal No. 4, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Right, and proposals No. 5 up to and including Nos. 13, on behalf of the Progress Party, included in the adjustment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e339	Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e345	I have listened carefully and also read carefully through the special comments of the Progress Party on agricultural policy. I have tried to add the good side and think positively when I have tried to analyse the effect of putting the Advance Party's policy into practice. There are several counties in our country where 25 pst. employment is directly linked to rural agriculture. There are a number of municipalities in our country where over 50 pst. employment is directly linked to agriculture. The Progress Party therefore proposes to halve the transfers to Norwegian farmers in one year – it is if you read with kindness. In fact, we already have an approved agricultural agreement valid until 1 July 2000. When the Progress Party proposes to cut the budget line for the implementation of the agricultural agreement by over DKK 6 billion, it will in practice mean that all agricultural aid will disappear in the second half of 2000. But anyway, let's say a halving and not from full support to zero support: has the Progress Party assessed what kind of social impact this would have in most agricultural-dependent districts of our country? Here it's not about a carefully escalating over some years. Here it is about a hard first year effect, which will lead to bankruptcy in Norwegian agriculture, with a total collapse in the social structure of large parts of the country. I know from experience that Hedstrom now in his answer will probably try to answer anything other than what I point out. That is why I am trying a very specific question to Hedstrøm: Has the Progress Party made concrete calculations of the impact on housing and employment when one now proposes a halving of agricultural aid in one year?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e354	The Agricultural Policy spokesman in the Workers' Party, the representative Hanssen, has read our comments carefully. I have also read the comments of the Workers' Party very carefully. Unfortunately, in Norway there is a very slow trend towards more market and competition in the agricultural sector. It's actually the Working Party that has the key to this. And now, when we hear in advance of the agricultural notification that there may be talk of increasing the concession limits by a few deans, it becomes far too small for the Progress Party. I thought everyone could agree that it would have no visible effect on making Norwegian agriculture more competitive. Otherwise, I would say that today's agriculture has been totally unsuccessful. For example, from 1976 to 1997, Norwegian agriculture cost taxpayers approx. 500 billion kroner in transfers and shielding support. In the same period, we had halved the number of farmers in Norway, and we had the largest migration from the districts to the central districts. So it's today's policy that has failed. But we dare to pull up the loop and remove some old watering, and we support mountain researchers who say quite clearly that we can produce as much food in Norway with half as many farmers. Bjarne Håkon Hanssen was concerned that it went on half here. As far as district policy is concerned, we also have support in the old Committee on Buildings, the Steigum Committee and the Norman Committee that we can have a district policy on a general basis. In fact, the Norman Committee estimated that the aid was about NOK 70 000 per year. employment in the districts. The farmers cost NOK 300000, and there is no difference in the ring effects on this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e363	We heard in the Hedstrom article about the areas of the three budgets currently under consideration, where there is a need to cut. I can share Hedstrom's affairs on some of these points. There is a need to make some cuts, not least on some nutrient transfers. In the general comments of the Progress Party, it is a very good description of what to do and what not to do. One of the things that is stated in the general comments of the Progress Party is that one should focus on general framework conditions and oppose selective measures and individual measures. Now, however, the Progress Party also has a few bet areas in this setting. In addition to the tourism industry, they have the Fornebu bet area in Bærum. Opseth said in his post that he was looking forward to December 17. At home is December 24th. But Hedstrom may be in the situation that he shares Opseth's prospects compared to December 17. Since you have such a bet area where you put everything in a pot – a few hundred million in this company – I could briefly imagine asking Hedstrom where you have sucked this knowledge that you should bet on this one industry and this one establishment. Have the opinions of alternative and neutral communities of competence been obtained in this context? I asked in the previous debate we had here on the topic, whether he could point out to other places where the nation state had somehow engaged itself on the owner's side. Now you've had a month to think about it. Can there be any reference to such examples?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e372	It is true that Gabrielsen's representative is concerned that we are going the farthest in terms of reducing taxes and taxes and public intervention. In our alternative state budget, we have tax reductions for people and businesses of about 10 %. NOK 28 billion. As far as I remember, it's almost four times as much as the Right has. And why do we have that? What does business say here? Indeed, Norway and Sweden in international competition — to take as an example a survey conducted by the NHO — are not particularly attractive as an investment country. Norway is actually coming to the bottom. And why? Well, we're on the edge of Europe, we have a home market of just 4.5 million. residents, etc. This has been understood by the Progress Party. We need other world-class framework conditions to make it attractive to invest in Norway. Then Gabrielsen comes into IT Fornebu Technoport again. Now we've had a lot of rounds on it, and I expect our arguments to be relatively well known. I think we should agree now, after all these rounds, that what matters most is that Norway does not come into being at a competitive disadvantage, and that we now have a decision on that matter either in January or February, so that the actor who gets the hit can get started, and we can develop something in the high-tech areas of Norway. We know that a unique business cluster is developing in the Nordic region, and Norway has to be part of it. We know that the second generation Internet in the Nordic region is likely to be developed from Helsinki. We know that big American companies like to move their research departments etc. to Norway, inter alia to Fornebu-tomta, to work in synergy with Telenor.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e381	There is a lot to wonder about in this world, and when a read Progress Party's draft budget, and to the extent that the article belongs, is not surprised. Fisheries and aquaculture are a growing industry that gives Norway wealth and export income. The potential is very great. But then one must preserve the resource base, which is the fish in the sea. This means that the optimal use of the raw material must be achieved and, as far as possible, the threat must be eliminated from the increasing populations of marine mammals. It may not be so understandable, but nevertheless a fact that self-afraid is not an industry in which it is easy to get paid. Therefore, through the fisheries agreement, the Government has provided additional nets for self-anxiety. How will the Progress Party explain that they are totally ignoring the threat from marine mammals and the damage they can do to fish resources when they cut 100 million. and thus to say the whole fisheries agreement in its budget? Fisheries and aquaculture give us $37 billion in export income. Is it really unthinkable that one gets 100 million? kr back for others to obtain a reasonable withdrawal from the marine mammal population? I should rather stick to just one point in a line, but the representative from the Progress Party was concerned with food prices, and that Sweden has cheaper food. And that's a fact. The food is approx. 12 pst. cheaper, and it is identical to the lower food tax that exists in Sweden. You must make this logic: Lower your food compartment! But no, here the party, with the origin of a party to the lowering of taxes and charges, will suddenly keep high food stores. Is it a goal for Norwegian farmers to lose in competition with the Swedes, who only have 12 pst. food fascination?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e392	This went on both fish and agriculture, and I'm going to try to answer both of them. Worldwide, we have too many fishing boats, we have overcapacity in terms of resources, and the FAO – Food and Agriculture Organization – in 1992 calculated that the subsidies that went to the fishing industry were higher than the values that were taken up by the sea. Then it starts to become galimatias. That is why the Progress Party wants a different system. We also want more market orientation on the fisheries side. We have the richest fishing resources just outside our country and in the Barents Sea, and we would be able to easily organise the fisheries so that they go with profits without needing subsidies and support schemes. Of course, we have to have a sample that determines the total catch per. This can be done, for example, for years, but this can be done. with negotiable allowances. I'm not going to get into this any more, I'm going to say something about the food room. The Swedes reduced food consumption from 21 to 12 p.m. from 1 January 1996. Why does the Progress Party not want to follow here? No, we were against the last VAT increase from 21 to 23 p.m., but we do not want any differentiation, because if we are to help weak and vulnerable groups, for example. families with children or the minimum retirement age, it is done by increasing pensions or family allowances. The multimillionaire in the Holmenkol lock will be helped if we reduce food subsidies, and it does not want the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e401	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e404	It's good in Norway. It is not without hope to produce or export either goods or services. Norway exported NOK 33.4 billion in September. It was a preliminary record then. The import was NOK 21.5 billion, so we had a huge surplus on the trade balance. Well, half of the exports were oil and gas, so I don't ignore the challenges we actually have. Norway is a small country with an open economy in an ever smaller value. But we have oil, we have gas, we have fish and aquaculture, we have shipping, we have water power and nature, and we have forests. We have to be good at knowledge and technology. With this and future budget, the government will create an innovative Norway. The challenges are just there. We need 200,000 new businesses, they say, over the next 20-30 years to survive in competition and create work for everyone. Only this way can it be possible to share well so that more than today can feel that they are living a good and safe life. It is not self-evident that new businesses become established, but positive attitudes to operating their own business, combined with good framework conditions and removing unnecessary obstacles are a premise. Little by little, the government is creating these devices. Some representatives from the Business Committee have just been to America, Silicon Valley. There is a lot to say about California, but there is a fantastic entrepreneurial spirit there, and the innovation is impressive – a total of 11 pst. actually started on its own. Two important things that I want to draw out as positive over there are: First, it is allowed to fail. People who have failed both once and twice were usually successful third or fourth attempts. It was calculated that 20 pst. Of the innovations actually failed, and that only 20 pst. was an absolute success. Secondly, there is good access to private risk capital. People who had made success and put back with a monthly capital, bet on young, enthusiastic people with good ideas. These angels investors, as they were called, financed monthly parts of the business life of the future in a disparate way. We have too little businessman in Norway. That just 2.3 pst. of young people starting on their own is worrying. But the founder was here before, and it may worship again. The fight against the form field is a commitment to closure, but we also need to ensure that the rest of the business environment provides stability and foresight as a basis for necessary conversion work in enterprises. This budget guarantees business stability, and the Christian People's Party believes that Norway has good intentions to meet its challenges and face the process of change. Aquaculture and fisheries are our second largest export industry. In fact, the world's largest exporter of seafood. It is important to add that in order for these industries to be able to increase their profitability, they need to further process the raw material in Norway. In this area, Norway is in the den, and it is therefore natural and correct that marine research is a field of interest from the Government. The budget and budgetary agreement also strengthen this sector significantly with increased propensity for fleet renewal. But not least, I'd like to stress that the appeal to the fairs and guys got a huge increase. The tragic accident in the West revealed that the coast on which we all depend is not adequately marked for safe travel. I am pleased that the Committee agrees with what it has to say to have an active agriculture throughout the country. Agriculture has a multifunctional role, and if we're going to put the whole country into action, we're going to have to invest in an agricultural industry that will reward the farmer for the effort. Pure food is an innumerable good. Norwegian agriculture has many premonitions. We have good animal health and small scale production, which we have to take care of. Unfortunately, a globalised trade in food leads to cross-border infection and disease, and the economic consequences I believe we have seen very closely. Although the budgetary agreement has made it necessary to cut the budget of the State Food Authority, supervision has, however, been given a monthly increase in order to guarantee pure food to consumers. The supplier industry is in trouble. It is very important that they do not miss the competence that it takes 25 years to build up, and I see the package that one of the budget negotiations has got, so that we can actually do it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e427	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e430	In the budget setting, there is a multiple of them. The Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party agree that it hasn't allowed enough money for the tool in the last few years. In addition, the majority say that, in the Committee's view, this is not proportionate to the need for a large scale of new enterprises and jobs to be created in the future. Does the representative Apelthun Seele think that this obliges us in the plural? And does the representative believe that it will be possible to do this in cooperation with the Right and the Advance Party, or will she get Bondevik to cooperate with the Labour Party next year? So to the SND and integration of the State Agricultural Bank. There is considerable doubt as to whether there is enough money to make this integration as smooth as possible. Two questions have been central. The only thing is the question of wage harmonisation, and it's hard to get what's inside from the government party. Can the representative Apelthun Selle now say that there is money for wage harmonisation, so that those who work together get equal payment for equal work? Will it happen from day one, or will it happen later – in the event of what time? Is there enough money to convert or to these packages that have been added? And will the early retirement scheme apply from 1 January, or will it apply later? If it applies later, so much indicates, does Apelthun Selle see that this can be quite unfortunate, that one can get a pending hold and customization to it, which won't exactly facilitate the process?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e437	There were not exactly two easy questions to answer, and they were very concrete, but I'll do it as best I can. The agency has seen the need for this central government to rationalise and act in response to the needs of the business community. And it's clear that a majority decision in Stortinget, an agreement in Stortinget, is mandatory. That's what we want to work for, but to draw the lines as far as to tell who to cooperate with in the next round, that's not possible. Only new decisions can lift old decisions in Stortinget, but I would like to stress that what we have entered into an agreement, that is what we consider mandatory, and that is what we regard as important – otherwise we would not have concluded that agreement. Then to the State Agricultural Bank and wage harmonisation. I have previously stated, a little more privately, to the representative Oddbjørg Starrfeld that I consider wage harmonisation to be a prerequisite for a budget to work together. When it is said that there is no money for this within the budgets that are, my answer is that the requirement for the packages that are there is that there should be enough means for a successful aggregation. If it shouldn't be when it comes to practice, you have to look at it and get it done in the best possible way, but I don't want to confirm what the representative Oddbjørg Starrfelt is now saying.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e447	In fact, through the budget setting, it looks like the Christian People's Party is very pleased that the Government in the fishing and fishing sector is going to be betting the entire increase of 5.5 pst. on ‘developing knowledge to safeguard and trigger value creation potential in the fisheries and aquaculture industry’. How does Anita Apelthun Sell that in practice this should lead to increased profitability for businesses – or are these just words? Furthermore, the Christian People's Party writes in its budgetary position for the same framework area: ‘These members will point out that the industry is increasingly part of a global industry. Innovation and flexibility are therefore essential for maintaining and developing competitiveness.» Given that there is still the framework area for fishing and fishing to which this is addressed, I have to ask: what innovation and flexibility for fish is the Apelthun seal thinking in this sector?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e461	Fishing and fishing is one of our biggest industries. There is a lack within this area that only imagination can set limits. I have been to fishing farms selling fish to Europe, and I have been to fishing or aquaculture plants that produce a product that can sell too much price both to Europe and to our own market. We know that this research, perhaps also within the new areas, fish species such as cod and turbot – yes, I can't do all these fish species – is unlikely to be important in order to increase the market and to create new products for people on a world-wide scale who actually demand pure seafood. That also applies to the divisional industry. Research in these areas is very important. 5.5 pst. increase in the budget of the Ministry of Fisheries is not limited to this, but is largely linked to maritime research. And I can't really understand the question here, that it should be unnecessary or on the side of the mystery that we're actually facing. Research in the maritime sector is a forward-looking effort that this government is now taking seriously. We also think this will lead to increased profitability by doing things rationally, and by avoiding diseases and damage to the products. It also applies to the second question, but now I see that I do not have time to answer it properly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e470	The Christian People's Party does not stop surpriseing me. They're saying so much correctly, but then they're doing the opposite, and on top of it all, they make it sound to themselves that there's similarity between the two things. The rest of us both hear and see that life and learning are not related to business policy. Last year they were on a budget deal with the Right, with which the business was very satisfied. Finally, thanks to the persistent demands of the Right, the majority supported business value creation, with a sensible tax policy, with framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises living with – but it was last year. Last year, the Christian People's Party, together with the Right, stood for an offensive shipping policy. This year they are raging it, and with that the results of the 1990s' work between seafarers, shipping companies and the state. Now it seems as if the Christian People's Party feels that with so much wise politics business and small businesses must be punished, almost after an old-fashioned doctrine that the joy must be paid with horror. The Christian People's Party and the Government actually contribute, and that's the amazing thing that the Workers' Party actually gets an impact on a policy that they couldn't get through when they were in government position. It would be interesting to get the representative Sæle's explanation of why she believes that the industrial policy of the Workers' Party is so much better this year than it was last year. What makes the representative Sæle think that the budgetary agreement is so positive for small and medium-sized enterprises outside the country, when the split model is now deteriorating, when new steps are introduced into the top tax, when a change is made to the depreciation rules and increased equity pricing? What is so good for business, for small and medium-sized enterprises, by increasing car taxes and fuel taxes? What is so good about an increase in the electricity charge, that the AMS system is now being phased out, that new environmental taxes are introduced? In the right, we believe that such policies are a mistake and that there is a threat to small and medium-sized enterprises. Why does the representative Sell believe that this is in the best interests of small and medium-sized enterprises outside the country?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e484	It's nice to know that the Right thought the Christian People's Party was saying so much right, and I could try to explain to myself why we're doing so much right too, because that's what's happening. The representative here asks why we thought that the Workers' Party's industrial policy has now been so good. This is not true, as it is actually the Government's industrial policy that is being adopted, with minor changes. I think Right has a bad tendency to blacken the situation for the time being. The government has managed to keep up good business arrangements when it concerns the sharing model, when it relates to the stock discounts, which have not been changed, when it relates to the taxation of shipowners' layers, and we've got a package for the yard industry that I really appreciate as a Westerner. We can, I think, take care of the skills that we have there, even if this industry has to go through a valley before new investments in the North Sea are in place. In addition, I have to say that the Government has done a separation on the tax side, of which the Right is so concerned. The government has reduced the inheritance charge. We have lowered the CO2 fee and the production fee as well. We want to remove the investment tax, and we want to look at the property tax. We want to lower the food tax and have a flatter tax and a simpler Norway – if we get to sit a little bit longer. So I'm really worried about how right will control this. I don't think about what kind of devastating consequences Right's proposals would have for business in District Norway, when one wants to cut in SND and regional development incentives with over DKK 1 billion, and when one wants to cut agricultural support with DKK 1.4 billion. The Christian People's Party is very comfortable with the measures in this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e495	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e498	This harvest has always been marked by the harvest in Stortinget, the budget. Following the new budgetary procedure we have received these budgetary agreements between the Government and either the right side or the left side of the Stortinget. Now Opseth said in his post that this agreement was ‘a small step in the right direction’. It would be interesting to hear from one or more government councils whether they share that view, whether the agreement that exists is in the right direction. Now just said Seal that if they got to sit longer, they would obviously get to carry out some more of the things that they had on their hearts, and to which she explained. This agreement that we have been given in the harvest affects very much the business world. The government, as far as I know, has made the Workers' Party the first choice in terms of budgetary agreements, and that means that business must prepare for and steel to take new steps in what Opseth called the right direction, for the next harvest. But I'm actually considering it so that for the business community it wouldn't necessarily have been worse with a labor party government. Then I don't think of the Labour Party's primary positions in either tax policy or tax policy. I do not think of the Labour Party's long-term policy of undermining the foundations of Norwegian private ownership in business. This policy they have pursued in the 1990s is, in fact, in the process of success, perhaps to a greater extent than they appreciate. It has actually been so successful that now there is only one solution, namely to use the treasury to invest in companies. I don't think of the Workers' Party's belief in flashing out individual industries and the state implementation of visions that actually don't even responsible state councils quite manage to get hold of – I think about the Fornebu case. No, I am thinking of the fact that the Government, in its eagerness to comply with the Senterparti's burning desire for a settlement with the Workers' Party, is willing to allow Norwegian industry and Norwegian small savers to pay most of the cost of continuing to sit in the government building. I feel absolutely convinced that under no circumstances would it have been appropriate for the government parties in the opposition to enter into a budgetary settlement with the Workers' Party where, for example, one. removed the AMS. In that case, it would be very strange, a short time ago, the representatives of the government of the parties said that they were talking about expanding the AMS system, which you are now willing to wind up. That's part of the premium you have to pay to have the black cars, as was said by a workers' party representative earlier. But this point actually means increased taxes of 450 million. kr for between 500000 and 700000 small savers, who have had a small breathing hole in the declaration. I don't think it would have been appropriate for the government parties in opposition to enter into a budgetary settlement with the Workers' Party on, for example. to change the shipping tax with a proceeds of 150 million. kr. That would certainly be illogical in any case in relation to the statements that have been made, not least from the Christian People's Party's own parliamentary leader. I don't think it would have been appropriate for the government parties to go in and make changes and exacerbate the sharing model for the small businesses with a proceeds of 185 million. kr. Why would they do that? I don't think it would have been appropriate for the government parties in the opposition to enter into a budget settlement where one changes the depreciation rules for commercial buildings with a proceeds of 460 million. kr. It is time for someone in these parties to realize that a non-Norwegian owner cannot gain increased private ownership. If we want to strengthen national, we need to strengthen this private ownership in business, there's only one thing that benefits, there's only one thing that's proven to be useful to get this done. It is to have framework conditions that make it interesting to be the owner of Norwegian business. The right has taken the consequences of this and has proposed in our alternative state budget a first step towards full liquidation of the property tax. The fundamental error that, at my discretion, is made by the majority, and above all by the Workers' Party, is that one does not ask the very central question: Why? The conclusion is drawn: there is a failure in the access to capital of private investors in Norway. And you say, what are we going to do? So there's state capital that's the answer, instead of analysing the cause, then putting in the right medicine. My experience is that the worst solutions arise in what we call the intersection between the Center Party and the Workers' Party in the case of foreign capital – you kind of startle with it – and it is combined with the Workers' Party's love of state ownership. In the bidding bill agreement, this has been made visible through the agreement to assert state ownership as security for national ownership. You've concluded what's the solution. Now you have to figure out how to interfere with this. State ownership as a remedy against poor framework conditions for private ownership is at best mismedication. In the worst-case scenario, it will result in low diversity, low profitability and an ever-need to fill state capital. At least there are some of the experiences we have with state ownership. It's also a business that will quickly become buyers, I think, for foreign business. In the right, we believe that the main challenge must instead be to make Norway attractive as an investment and establishment country, both for entrepreneurs and for Norwegian and foreign investors. If we master this challenge, it doesn't matter if some Norwegian companies are bought up or flagged out. It's the innovation companies and their growth conditions that are the key. It is about developing an offensive policy for start-ups and freeing us from the purely defensive considerations about the dangers that threaten the horizon, foreign purchases, which now characterise the entire Norwegian food debate. When business is no longer national but regional and international, it is time to realise that policy can no longer be. Another important area in this budgetary position is agriculture. What is remarkable in this setting is that the centre fraction is essentially out of commentaries that largely rely on what the Minister of Agriculture has repeated in debates and articles in the newspaper over a relatively long period of time. The analysis of why this is so can be drawn separately, but it is relatively obvious that there is a great deal of disagreement in the government fraction and in the government about these things – and the 14 days before we get the agricultural message. There are problems in areas related to recruitment situation, overproduction, commercial leakage. What's the picture today is that it's the full-time users that it's hard to get nobility boys and nobility girls or others to take over. We're actually in the situation that we've spent hundreds of millions building up an overcapacity, which in the next round we're spending hundreds of millions getting rid of on the international market. Then it's not entirely right to say that it's the industry itself that has to pay it, you can't say it about an industry that has $20 billion in direct and indirect support. At my discretion, the distribution is between the actors in that industry at large. It is true that in some areas, for example: milk, gets twice as large transfers when you have five cows, as when you have a farm of 25–30 – then you get half. What I am calling for, and what I sincerely hope the Minister of Agriculture will present in the agricultural message we are now receiving, is a commitment to those who in the future will be producers of the food that we in this country are going to find in our business. Because I think the Norwegian people are willing to pay a price for Norwegian goods. But that's a limit to all things. So to the element that goes on the argument to maintain dramaticly high transfers to agriculture – this with settlement. I cannot spare myself to say that when the situation is that there are 75 000 annual works in primary agricultural production, it is difficult for me to understand that it may be essential for the settlement in almost all the country. But what I think will happen, if you continue to bet unilaterally on the hobby users, who have a lot of work to do in addition – there's no reason to believe that if you're learning somewhere and have twelve sheep to which you're receiving transfers, and suddenly you don't get those transfers, you're going to end up learning in the village and moving, I have very little faith in that – is that if we don't bet on those who have the full-time assignment in agriculture, then it's the ones who put down. We now look at those who sell their milk quotas.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e521	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e524	It is not the first and certainly not the last time Gabrielsen's representative is trying to skin the Working Party on Enterprise Policy. Then there may be a need to remind the representative Gabrielsen that the Right put in government a large part of the 1980s, and there was not much growth in industrial employment at that time, while there was growth when the Labour Party came into the government building at the end of the 1980s. So I'm not so sure if that's how the representative Gabrielsen is trying to make it, that only business gets less tax – because what's right is its medicine, is pretty much nothing but less tax – so Norwegian business will flourish like never before. In fact, the most important authority for Norwegian business is that they make money. And if they bear money, they also pay taxes. There are signs of a healthy state that Norwegian businesses pay taxes, not the opposite. And then, of course, there are limits to how much tax you're going to charge from business as well, so we can soon be agreed on. But then before the Right stops talking about taxes as the only political tool in relation to Norwegian business, the better it is. Then I want to ask the representative Gabrielsen if he doesn't recognize that we're in a situation where private people don't have the power to give Norwegian business the capital that is so necessary for us to retain a national ownership. In case the representative Gabrielsen thinks that it is not touristy that the state enters, I would like to ask Gabrielsen: What say Norwegian company owners?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e533	No, it's enough that Opseth said in the beginning, that it's probably not the last time Gabrielsen flattens the working party. But if they change positions on a couple of points, it'll at least be a lot lighter over time. Also in this line, I think the representative Opseth mixes two things. One is taxes on income for business. There it is that the Right Party and the Workers' Party have a relatively parallel view. In fact, it is the government parties who are also in the budgetary procedures that are the problem, they have proposed increased taxes on income for business. But what's special, and what's strange, is the treasure of ownership in business. And there's at least the Workers' Party -- I shouldn't say that they've been the complete brake block, there's something even worse than that -- gone in the wrong direction, so that we're actually one of the few countries in Europe that have a wealth tax on ownership at all, and one of the few countries in Europe that have a wealth tax on ownership of business, so no one is taxing it harder than Norway. Nor is there any country in Europe where the lack of private capital is so great. That is what the analysis is: the conditions for Norwegian ownership are not such that people are interested in owning Norwegian business. One of the small breathing holes I mentioned, the AMS system, at least added approx. 450 million. kr per. years. It's gone. Why can't Gabrielsen admit that the privates don't have power? Yes, I acknowledge that the situation is such that the Workers' Party has succeeded in destroying the conditions of Norwegian ownership. Now there's only one thing left, and that's the money for Restad. Norwegian ownership has been depleted in the whole of the 1990s, consciously and ideologically. They've had these visions of state ownership. And what I'm afraid of is this intersection between the Center Party and the Workers' Party in terms of these things.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e542	The Right Party, the Labour Party and the Advance Party agree on some comments on the agricultural sector, and it is positive that the Right Party wishes to point out that they will have lower food prices. The right – to be right – has been concerned with this for a long time, with the problem of overproduction, etc. And a number of representatives from the Right, with Børge Burnde at the head, have wanted to harmonise the charges on baits with the EU. But in terms of the agricultural sector and our food budget, there are not many signals. I actually have to look with magnifying glass to find something that can help us get reduced food prices, despite the fact that Ansgar Gabrielsen to the media has said several times that he wants to reduce them by 20 pst. The progress party clearly says what we want to do. We want to remove all production restrictions, concessional limits on the acquisition of livestock, etc. Because we do not understand that a Swedish farmer away in Värmland, just above the border, should have much better framework conditions, may have much higher numbers of pigs, etc. – they have strict environmental and safety requirements, as stringent requirements as those we have in Norway, but they win competitively. So how much will the Right go into changing agricultural regulations? Should we subject agriculture to competition law, as the Progress Party wishes? Should we repeal the Stalinist trading law, etc., which is over 60 years old?? I know that the Right has been concerned with some concessional limits in the acquisition of agricultural and forestry property. But all these other things will also be important in this picture to bring down food prices in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e552	It's like that in this business that you see what you want to see. From one point to another, we talk about right-wing cutters so dramatic and so much in the agricultural transfers that everything is out of control, while Hedstrom couldn't find anything, even when he used magnifying glass. There is a certain difference between the Right and the Advance Party also in this area. I tend to say that in the areas where we point out that here it is time to do a shaving, where you just as well cut off the whole skull in the Progress Party. It is done in a number of areas. What right will go in for? It's very clear in the settings notes what are the overall objectives. We want a turn from the situation as it is today, where one has great economic benefits of running small and unprofitable, to a situation where one is betting on those who run professionally in agriculture. In all, the vast majority of areas of agricultural production are being promoted to be inefficient, while in my view the logical thing would be to have more linear grant schemes, which would mean that those who are betting more and more rationally would get a bigger profit. But there's almost no incentive to do sensible things in this industry. With regard to the law that Hedstrøm characterizes as Stalinist, I can in many areas to the extent that I like to share such a name. There is no doubt that there is a need for major changes. We have largely signalled what we will do in relation to the agricultural message that comes. But what matters to me is that the steps we take are at least going in the right direction. I'd like to be able to assign some goals that lie far out there in the horizon, but it's not good to have looked so high that you stumble in the sleepers.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e563	Right has always said that they want to sell forests that the state owns. In this budgetary work, the Right also says that they want to sell State Forest's property. The Christian People's Party is not divided into this principle. But it's here about scale and pace. In my municipality we had a property like the state eight. It was sold, so there it is sold 100 pst. We also see the value of Statskog's need for stability in its framework conditions. The ministry already has a salsa authority that gives access to the hall. And that happens. If we go into the annual report and the accounts for Statskog, we find that since 1990 and until today, 47 forest properties have been sold for a total of 97,720 dean, i.e. almost 100,000 dean – of this over 40,000 dean productive forest. Is it so to understand that Right will extend the salsa authorization from today? Does the Right see any value for society in having a common land area, with the benefits of it in general?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e582	As far as the last point is concerned, the concrete question of whether the Right sees any benefits of society's having a land area is beyond doubt. We've been buying large areas into national parks and different things. What I'm talking about, and I've talked about some times when it's being debated in relation to this, is what's going on in the coniferous forest. At my discretion, there is no logic in that the hoarding and management of forest is an area that is very suitable for state operation. At my discretion, it belongs to the private sphere, and I am willing to go much further than what the government obviously is in making local arrears in this area. I am aware that some forest has been sold during the 1990s, but it is probably also that it has been purchased. The representative mentioned by Mr Auchan was probably gross sales, while the purchase was not mentioned. I see, as I said, no logic in that large forest properties should necessarily be driven by the state. We've got a lot of -- a lot of -- of the whole country's unreasonings that have happened once, a lot in the last half of the last century, about the way in which the state acquired these properties. It surprises me that you don't have a more offensive attitude to this, not necessarily to remedy an injustice done to people who are gone and gone, but to some local environments. On the right-hand side, we are prepared to make such a sale to a much greater extent. I really think it's also a fundamental debate that should be held. Is it natural for the State to continue to own clean forest properties? I am not talking about the land area that is national park, about environmental considerations, etc., but about what is going on in clean forestry. We are now in a situation where we in the business world are doing major privatisations, and this should, in my view, be the most natural area to attack.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e593	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e596	The main enterprise policy initiative for SV is a massive and diverse commitment to school, education and research. 80 pst. of future apeid sites has not been created. Government grants and loans must focus on the start-up phase, build-up of competences and risk loans. Public efforts must go to such investments and not to tax incentives for businesses that are doing well. The knowledge efforts in this budget are a bit difficult to see," said Opseth. I agree. But it is probably also a little difficult to find the tracks after the Workers' Party's efforts in the conciliation. This may also be the case here, as the representative of Brørby expressed it yesterday in the case of the municipal economy, that there is a drop in the sea, and that is what SV agrees. The state's investment, inter alia: research needs to be increased to OECD level, both private and public research. It requires a bet of approx. $5 billion, and that's a lot of money. But that's necessary because today's policy focuses on a black oil-dependent economy and business. When the committee says that this should be reversed in the long term, it is too passive. The head of the Council of Exports said in Business Week 3 December this year that Norway needs to invest more in services, technology and products with a high level of knowledge. It's easy to agree with. In the frontier country between services and high technology, telecommunications, ship equipment, e.g. and related services, aquaculture and environmentally friendly energy technologies, Norway has a high level of competence in growing markets. In order to achieve a reverse operation from the black to the green economy, we believe that we need to use state capital to a far greater extent than what we are doing today, both for education and research, for risk capital and also for long-term ownership. The State must then develop an ownership strategy which must also include industrial competence and not just financial competence. Passive ownership may be correct in some cases, active, professional ownership may be correct in other cases. So to the question of risk assessment, as the representative Apelthun Seele mentioned in her post, where she indicated that in the United States it had been found that 20 pst. of the enterprises went over the first time. It was no news, Norwegian research results have also been shown for many years. When using public funds for the start-up and development of businesses, you should have this threshold and the knowledge that you know it works that way. And when many businesses start up, and some of them end up, it's not because it's wrong and wrong to use state and public capital, that's how the logic is when it comes to setting up businesses. So to agriculture. Norway is an ecosink. 160,000 deacons are organically grown today, in Denmark the area is over 1 million deacons. Just 1 pst. the milk in Norwegian shops is eco-milk. We produce three times as much, but it doesn't come to the consumer. So here, Norway needs to take new steps in agricultural policy; it needs to be much more massively focused on ecology, especially the general one, but perhaps something more in particular. And combined use must be a field of activity, a combined user can be the profession that young people want. I think few young people want solitude and solitude as a big user of some of the few farms that might be left with the agricultural policy that we are now seeing. We have to reward the environment and cut the transfers to the main uses. The government is now notifying of efforts on major uses, full-time farmers and tax deductions from the production that contributes most to overproduction, and at least to jobs. It's the wrong medicine and a competition line where Norwegian farmers can never win. So to one thing that I am apprehensive about has been completely absent in this debate, namely that the EFTA Court in May condemned the Norwegian employer's fee as illegal as Norwegian tax policy, and we will now be allowed to continue it as transport aid until 2003 as a temporary arrangement. This is, as far as I know, in the vicinity of NOK 7 billion in support of Norwegian business. And if it falls, one of the most important supports for small businesses in the districts falls away. I think that maybe the Business Committee should have said something more about it and agreed with SV that here we needed a fundamental review and a system to maintain the level of support after 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e613	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e616	It is not difficult to agree with Andersen’s representative that one should seek to increase organic agricultural production, which is perhaps a niche to which agriculture should focus in the future. One should also focus on some other niche areas. It is also easy to agree with Andersen’s representative when it comes to the importance of agriculture, among other things. The building in Bygde-Noreg, and that it will also be important in the future. But then Andersen's representative says that one has to bet on combination use, and that's right and good. Our problem is that we face some challenges in agriculture, including: a ceiling on future production support that we are likely to reach. We spend $13 billion in budget support on agriculture. If we count on customs protection and indirect support schemes, we are close to $20 billion. If we can increase agricultural transfers without delay, there is room for combined use, small and large-scale consumption on the same line. But if we have a certain volume of what we need to prioritize, I think Norwegian agriculture would be very poor at that it is the professional farmer who loses in this fight. I think that agriculture is hot with someone standing up and saying that I'm a farmer, that's what my profession is, or a school can say that I want to be a farmer, and that it's a profession equal to other professionals. It will guarantee the professional level of Norwegian agriculture. As a result, we need to have room for a small scale and varied agriculture, but in the future, with limited possibilities, we need to give priority to the full-time farmer, and I want to ask Andersen if she agrees with such a reasoning.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e625	No, I can't agree with such a one-sided bet as it would be. It is absolutely right that we face major challenges, because what we can determine in this area is limited, as in most areas. We're about to put our heads in the WTO ceiling – it's very uncertain where that roof will be in the future – but one thing is that we now, within the roof, do not take advantage of the opportunities we have, in support. Now remove e.g. the levy on fertilizers, and the possibilities for imposing higher charges on other pesticides, have not been used. Thus, environmental taxation is legal within the WTO system and can be returned directly to agriculture without prejudice to the framework. It is also possible to put a roof on both productions and mills – so there is no support. That is what SV believes must be true when overproduction is at the same time, so that larger and larger productions are not supported. In addition to the problem of the reduction of customs protection – which we will see coming, and for which there may be some good arguments – we need to ensure that Norwegian agriculture fills a niche that other countries have more difficulty in doing. That is why we believe that we need to turn Norwegian agriculture strongly into an ecological direction. Indeed, there is a niche for which there will be a market in the future, and where Norway has competitive advantage for natural reasons. We have small herds, it's a long way between farms, the farms aren't big, and we have climatic conditions that make it possible for us to achieve organic targets earlier than others. Along that line, we can preserve Norwegian agriculture – in the case of large-scale production, we will never make it. And then to the full-time farmer: I don't think sitting on a tractor alone is the future youth wants. Young people want colleagues, and therefore combined use is the best solution.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e636	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e639	There is a joyful and robust majority of the Government’s industrial policy in the motion submitted. Many important steps are being taken in the right direction in terms of innovation, research and simplification. ‘Wicked tongues’ continue to claim that the Government sits only to sit and has no political will. Such a claim is rebutted in all fields of business, including business policy. The budget represents a significant step forward in the implementation of the Action Plan for Small Enterprises. The fight against the form field is being introduced into a new track when efforts are being made to jointly receive data from industry to the Brønnøsund registers, the tax haven and the Statistical Central Bureau. Nutritional research has a significant boost both in this position and in the budget of other departments. It is also positive that the regional profile of industrial policy is intact following the budgetary negotiations in the Stortinget between the government parties and the Workers' Party. An important district industry is travel life, and I am pleased with the efforts of the Government by strengthening the market efforts of the Norwegian Tourism Council, among others. through a single Norwegian Internet portal. We also look forward to the travel life message to be delivered, which will be part of and position Norway in the world’s largest growth industry. The situation in the shipbuilding industry has been central to the debate on industrial policy in the last year. We are very pleased with the work done to take this industry's problems seriously in a difficult situation. The political level of noise has been partly greater than it has been the political basis for. The government has done a good job in this matter, and the budgetary agreement underlines the majority's common policy in that area. Only the Progress Party will reduce support for the shipping industry, with the serious consequences for jobs and professional competences it will have. Here is the big political distinction: it is remarkable that the same Progress Party, on the other hand, wants to use considerable government funds for housing development at Fornebu, and perhaps also for a new state investment fund – but not for taking care of important jobs and an important professional environment that needs some assistance in a transitional phase. As regards agriculture, the Government has announced a rapid growth report. Here I just want to point out the continuing importance of agriculture for District Norway. Here, too, there is a need for transformation and innovation. There are interesting niche opportunities for Norwegian agriculture, and it is positive that research and development are also pursued in this field. In forestry, the value creation programme is a good example of this, and there is also an increase in the funding for long-term investments. The fishing industry is the country's largest export industry to oil and gas. It has a significant potential for further growth. But there are many challenges: we have a fleet of overcapacity at the same time as it needs renewal, there are challenges in the use of by-product, and measures are needed to ensure the recruitment of industry. The cod stock gives rise to concern. However, marine research is being pursued, including better stock models, which can provide an even better basis for planning the resource outsourcing in the years to come. New farming species can provide new, great opportunities for Norwegian fishing. It would have been interesting to get into the situation of the marine mammals and that problem around it, but time doesn't allow it. The government's commitment to fisheries is a good investment for society. The Budget Agreement with the Workers' Party ensures the main features of the Government's policy and has provided further strengthening of efforts for fleet renewal. Prior to the autumn budget negotiations, there was considerable uncertainty as to whether it would be possible to find a negotiated solution for the Government and in what direction, if any, it would be possible. For the Left and for the Government, it is most important to get through as much of your own policy as possible, not who you work with. The Labour Party used much of its profiling in advance of the concept of 'distribution policy', where the income side should consist of changing important business framework conditions. It hasn't happened. In business policy too, the government's policy has been very good through the budgetary negotiations here in the United Kingdom, and the Left is satisfied with that. Of course, we might have wanted even better framework conditions for business, but we still have a tight budget, and business is also involved in the overall effort, which keeps interest rates down and continues to generate growth in the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e674	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e677	The representative Kongshaug spoke of the noise level being too high. I remember that last year there were also other words that were used, including: «tragedie». I don't think what business in Norway describes as problems is unjustified in the situation in which we are. I'm going to commend the Government for being good at analysing the problems we're facing, but unfortunately they haven't been as good at making solutions. On the occasion of last year's examination of the draft budget of the Economic and Social Committee, the representative, Mr Kongshaug, referred to the budgetary procedure as follows: ‘From the time the budget was presented, there was a comedy going over to a drama, and it was becoming a tragedy in the end – not a tragedy for the Government and for the Storing, but a tragedy for democracy.’ This year there has been a budgetary agreement between the Centre Parties and the Workers' Party. What makes the budget not a tragedy this year? The Labour Party has not changed its industrial policy. We are still insisting that Norwegian business needs stability and governance, and that the economic policy we want to pursue is one of the most important framework conditions for Norwegian business. What does the representative of Kongshaug think has changed, since he does not think it is such a tragedy to conclude a budgetary agreement with the Labour Party this year?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e687	In my speech, I mentioned the ‘political noise level’, and it is clear that noise levels are justified in an industry that has such challenges as it has — including challenges for the industry itself in terms of change. The public cannot contribute everything in terms of such changes, but the public has, in my view, contributed to what it is possible to contribute: the construction of supply ships, coastguard vessels, new ferries, new fishing boats, two fast-haul vessels could be built here in the country, and also changes in the payment of yard aid, as noted, will help to improve the conditions for the yard industry. What's good about this budget is that important things like the sharing model arrangement are fixed, the stock discount for family-owned businesses is still there, the shipping tax is in place. If one is to say something in general about these arrangements, I would say that perhaps the most important thing we have achieved in the agreement with the Workers' Party that we have concluded is that it ensures predictability in the future, and predictability is perhaps what is most important to business and which they are engaged in. With regard to the maritime industries and the shipping tax, we should be aware that this is also a cluster phenomenon. We have Norwegian shipping companies with their offices here in the country, and that's part of the cluster we have in terms of shipbuilding. I'm not so sure that the world's largest cruise ship would be built on Fosen Mek. Workshops if we did not have Norwegian shipping companies that saw the advantages of Norwegian yards and Norwegian shipyards.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e696	Left-wing love to present itself as a liberal party, to be the best friend of small and medium-sized enterprises, to do a job with the form field, etc., and to want lower taxes and taxes and public intervention. Now one has been in government for a while and not achieved very much in practice in that area. But in terms of rural policy and agricultural policy, at least I have problems in practical policy looking at some difference between the Centre Party and the Left. The traditional rural thinking and agricultural thinking are supported, and it is most convenient to let things go the way they did before. When there is a common accepted way of governing a country, problems are in the long term negative as a whole, and that is the situation in Norwegian agriculture now. I must say it is strange that the Left cannot join the majority, the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party, who want lower food prices. There is no contradiction between lower food prices and good quality. This year we will dump approx. 19 000 tonnes of primary Norwegian food in the world market, pig meat down to NOK 3 per year. kg and beef to NOK 7-8 per year. kg, but I think we're actually dumping some sheep and lamb meat in these wolf times. In New Year's, the government will have a huge problem. How are we going to meet the huge overproduction that is happening in Norway, when next year, according to WTO rules, it will not be possible to dump such colossal quantities of prima Norwegian meat products abroad? I expect that a responsible government party like the Left has solutions and the concept of how to meet this, so that the Norwegian food market does not run out of groceries, which you can't do anything about because you don't want the market to work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e707	First, I want to draw attention to a little delay. I said it was the world's largest cruise ship to be built at Fosen, but it's the world's largest cruiser. But what the child's name is probably not so important, the consequences are the same in terms of employment and jobs. So the representative Hedstrøm, who re-entered Norwegian agriculture and Left's policy there. With regard to the comments of the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party, the Left broadly agrees with what it says. Now it's like that about approx. 14 days will come for an agricultural notification, and whether it is right to go into the details of Norwegian agricultural policy 14 days before such an agricultural notification comes, can of course be discussed. I don't really think that is a big issue in this context, but the challenges – as many in this room today have pointed out – are many in Norwegian agriculture, including overproduction, which Hedstrom was also faced with. It is necessary to lay down framework conditions that may affect our control of this, but here, of course, the industry itself needs to take a roof. When it comes to the agricultural policy of the Progress Party, I think this is not related. I am pleased that the Advance Party will increase the appropriations for travel life. But does not the Progress Party see the connection here with what we sell in the context of travel life – Norwegian fjords, Norwegian villages and a well-established country? If we were to base the agricultural policy of the Advance Party, I am not sure that we could have shown those who are visiting us, such an item.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e716	The representative Kongshaug believes that there are ‘bad tongues’ that say that the Left and the Government are more interested in taboo rights than in the results. In fact, here I believe that the representative of Kongshaug is wrong – as far as this is concerned with “bad tongues”, I believe. The left in the opposition was very active in selling as a party to business. I have to say – and business does – that the Left has failed when they were going to implement their own good intentions. Last year, together with the Right Party and the Advance Party, they were in favour of a budgetary settlement with which the business community was very satisfied. This year, Left remarries – I had almost said – with the Workers' Party to give business a nostrils in the form of a worsening environment. The aim is to develop business environments as an alternative to the petroleum industry. On the right, Norwegian business environments will take advantage of the advantages of the globalised economy, and we will maintain national ownership and maintain headquarters in Norway. One of the responses to these challenges and objectives is Norwegian shipping. And since 1996, the majority of Stortinget has created a new shipping policy that brings results, thanks to an interaction between seafarers, shipping companies and the state. Now, this scheme is being reversed, which is clearly producing results and which can be shown to produce results. The response from the Left to the policy that produces results is to reduce predictability and short-term. Where other countries guarantee ten years, the Left corresponds with annual changes and the tonnage tax is now a dangerous gross tax that threatens Norwegian jobs and is detrimental to the entire maritime and economic and industrial environment in Norway. Yesterday, I was in the Oslo Shipowners’ Association with my colleague Steensnæs from the Christian People’s Party. There was the judgment of the Government's shipping policy and the budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party very negative. My question to Kongshaug is: how can he explain to anyone who wants to strengthen the shipping industry as an important industry in Norway, why is it so busy building down the entire comprehensive maritime cluster?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e729	What's being said about the Left has been busy building down the maritime cluster, is obviously wrong. It's rather the opposite. The left is concerned about preserving and keeping the cluster that we have, and the advantages that we have here. But it is clear that this is complex, and we can show more examples that the Left is offensive in that context. There has never been any doubt about the Left's position on the shipping tax, which also helps us keep Norwegian shipowners within our borders. We have seen in the media in recent days examples of Norwegian shipowners flying into Norway with their fleet, and that is also an example of the fact that Norwegian shipping policy, and hence the Government's shipping policy, must be good, and may be perceived as even better than in the past, as such things happen. It is also important, as I pointed out instead, with predictability. With the agreement that has now been concluded with the Workers' Party, one of the advantages is that the shipping tax has come to be. Otherwise, this government is committed to innovation, research and change. Of course, this industry is also involved. When we talk about maritime clusters, maybe there's no clusters that depend on just research, conversion and new development like that. We know examples of such clusters, not least more places in the West, so it's also a piece of the whole. With regard to what the Right says in this context, we must not forget that the government's regional policy instruments are also involved in building up under these clusters, and then what the Government puts forward is a much better tool than what the Right puts up to, which reduces these instruments by half.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e738	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e741	Since the Business Committee gave its opinion last Wednesday, the media have shown great interest in parts of the vote. In particular, the focus has been on agricultural policy. This is, of course, related to the fact that the Government is about to present a new big message on agricultural policy. The Committee's observations in its budgetary position are rightly read as signals of the choices made by the majority of the population in relation to the management of the agricultural notification. This budget debate thus provides an opportunity to elaborate and explain. ‘Politics are too concerned with reduced food prices.’ This is a criticism I often encounter from not least the farmers’ organisations. I would like to stress that it is not necessarily a political goal in itself to reduce the price of Norwegian food. Norwegian food is relatively cheap. From a state economic perspective, it can be profitable with high food prices because it reduces the need for government transfers to individual farmers. At high food prices, the farmer receives a greater share of the income from the market. The reason why we need to focus on a reduction in the price of Norwegian food is among other things. the fact that more and more Nordics choose to buy an increasingly large proportion of their food in countries other than Norway. The consumer does not consider that Norwegian food is relatively cheap. The consumer wants to use an even smaller proportion of his income for food if possible. And this creates major problems in Norwegian agriculture. Previously, the problems of overproduction are major. Increased border trade reinforces these problems, and the one who has to pay is the Norwegian farmer. There can be no doubt that at least we have to aim that the price difference in Norwegian and Swedish/Danish food cannot increase further. And we know that through its Agenda 2000, the EU has adopted a plan aimed at reducing EU food prices between 15-20 pst. until 2005. This means that the prices of our food products must at least have a similar trend if price differences are not to increase. If one ignores this fact, it will primarily have adverse effects on agriculture. Lower food prices are therefore an important policy issue. Then, of course, we will consider how this will affect the individual producer and how state transfer policy needs to be changed in order to meet a situation with lower revenues in the market. I must say that I am disappointed that it was not possible to achieve a process in the Committee with a view to a common remark on such central parts of Norwegian agricultural policy. That that was not possible, the center had to take primary responsibility for it, at least it wasn't on us. Finally, let me make a few comments related to the merger of the State Agriculture Bank and the SND. The background for the adoption of such a pooling was the desire for a comprehensive government policy on instruments, where resources are seen in the context. Agriculture is a very important industry for Building Norway, while there can be no doubt that the future of Building Norway also depends to a large extent on the development of the rest of the economy. Therefore, those who work in the development of industry must sit together and pull the load in the same direction. The State Agricultural Bank is now being integrated into all parts of the SND, and district offices in the SND must be developed to become regional power centers for industrial development. In order to complete that construction work, the Committee has, in a note, provided clear guidance for the regional composition of the management board. This is necessary in order to create a common venue where synergies can also be achieved in a regional governance context. It is important that the Government now follows up this remark.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e761	The Government has submitted a draft budget focusing on measures to increase value creation in forestry, to ensure safe food for consumers and to implement measures to ensure a viable and forward-looking agriculture throughout the country. I note that the Government's proposals have in general received clear support. I am pleased with the broad support for the food policy and the consumer perspective expressed by the Storting through the Committee's suspension. The proper and effective functioning of public food surveillance is a prerequisite. The government will make a special effort to do this by strengthening the coordination and performance management of municipal food surveillance. Antibiotic resistance is an increasing problem. Efforts to control the problem of resistance will be prioritised through a number of instruments, including: monitoring the use of antibiotics and the presence of resistant bacteria. I am convinced that antibiotic resistance will come more and more into focus in all countries. As Minister of Agriculture, I want Norway to be at the forefront of this field. The forest is the basis of one of our most important industries. Follow-up to the Forest Communication with measures to stimulate long-term investment in forestry and industrial development in forestry and forestry will be a priority. A pre-project - the value creation program - for increasing the processing and use of wood and better connections between forestry and the market has begun. I have noticed that the Committee shares the Government's assessment of the need for state intervention in long-term investments in forestry. I have also noticed that the Committee believes that the derogations in the case of reduced subsidies to the largest forest owners should be removed in 2000. This will be followed up, but at the same time I would like to stress that this can contribute to reduced activity because the conversion – if we do this fully in 2000 – will lead to reduced forest culture subsidies to the smallest forest owners. The Committee draws attention to the role of the Norwegian Forest Company in its review of the programme of value creation. I would like to suggest that the forest company can contribute to the programme. It will be in the areas of forest society today at its core, namely through social contacts and information. However, I find it fundamentally unfortunate if the committee believes it should be used for the allocation of the value creation programme as a subsidy to the Forest Company as an organisation. The Norwegian Forest Company is already receiving substantial subsidies from the State budget, and I am asking that this be observed in the further work of the Ministry. The focus of agricultural policy is on employment and stable housing in rural areas. The broad discussion of agricultural policy, as the Committee points out, must wait until the major communication on agricultural policy is dealt with. I look forward to a constructive discussion of agricultural policy when it comes to dealing with the notification and that one will find ways forward with forward-looking solutions. I can confirm that the overall objectives of agricultural policy will be firm, with agriculture throughout the country, with a varied use structure and environmentally friendly and district-based production. I am pleased that the Committee is so clearly supporting the work being done to achieve a more ecologically sustainable reindeer farm in Finnmark. The situation of overgrazing, malnutrition and the loss of cleanness on Finnmarks is the main challenge we face today in reindeer management policy, and it is of great importance that the measures we have now taken can be implemented in cooperation with the reindeer industry. In the areas where a majority of the Committee makes clear recommendations to the Ministry, these will of course be followed up in a normal manner, in the ordinary procedures. Of course, with regard to the matters that need to be consulted, attention must also be paid to the consultation opinions received through the process.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e785	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e788	The Council of State touched on a number of committee comments that he had an interpretation of. I can't immediately see that I have any problem with the interpretations made by the Council of State, but I want to get into some areas where the Committee has clear leadership, and which the Council of State did not have any significant influence on its intervention. There are four points: Firstly, the Committee's very clear leads in relation to restrictions on the use of BU funds for investment aid in productions where there is already significant overproduction. Secondly, the clear comments of the Committee relating to the conversion of the auctioning system for imports of game, where a special scheme is sought for imports of game and where the imported game must be raw material for further processing and sale. Thirdly, the Committee has said that it would authorise the use of nesting for the production of free-range pigs. And last but not least the clear comments made by the Committee in relation to changes in the composition of the Governing Boards of Regional SND. My question to the Council of State is as follows: How will the Council of State follow up these clear majority comments in the four areas I have now touched on?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e803	I made an attempt at such a summary at the end of my speech, where I said in what way the Council of State will deal with majority remarks in Stortinget, because there I have fairly good experience with what is expected. This, of course, is also how the Council of State will act. In the case of the BU funds, this will be taken into account when developing new regulations on the BU funds. At the same time, it needs to be aware that this regulation is not easy to implement, but it will be included in the lead of those regulations. When it comes to auctioning relative to game meat, I have also noticed it. One here can be very quick to give individual companies special treatment, so here you have to find ways to do this so that one also takes care of the other considerations that we have to deal with in that area. But our intention here is clear, and it lies within what the state council wants to follow up. When it comes to nesting on pigs, it's been a big topic. As far as I know, one person in the country has asked about this. It ended up as a question in the Questionnaire, and in committee comments today, with clear instructions to the Council of State, through treatment in the United Kingdom. I have done well that this is not an occasion today under Norwegian law. This means that regulations and regulations must be introduced to the law in order to ring the nose of this manufacturer’s pig. It's against the advice that's also given for animal ethical reasons. But if the councillor gets that message, he does of course. But this is a regulation that must be made, and the regulation must be consulted as usual in relation to such regulations. With regard to the composition of the board of directors in relation to the new scheme now put in place within the SND, this will be primarily a matter for the SND as such and for the Ministry of Industry and Trade. I believe that my colleague in the Ministry of Industry and Trade will also work on this in the usual way, within the framework set up by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e816	The Council of State – and I am pleased with that on behalf of the Advancement Party – wants to follow up on the comments of the majority and to clarify how he would do so on a number of points. BU funds are, of course, very many who are also involved in the agricultural industry. The agricultural bank's own figures show that the current overproduction of pigmeat is 9 500 tonnes. One third of this overproduction is due to BU funds. So this with nesting on pigs: It is true that there is only one farmer in Norway who has asked about it – Trond Refve on Jären, a founder in this area – who wanted to stand on his own legs, without burdening anyone else here in society, and who could deliver everything he produced from pork to hotels, restaurants, shops, etc. Here we have a potential along the shoreline so that relatively many farmers can do this, and it must be nice in these dumping times that they can produce and deliver everything they have on their own farm, and get a good price on it. But then to that question I was going to ask. We have a well-regulated agricultural system in Norway, and this summer Professor Anesland and researcher Holm came at the Agricultural University in Ås with a survey showing that the Swedes, who have liberalised their legislation, are now achieving good results in areas where we have a well-regulated system. You've compared Värmland to Hedmark. There are much more people living on their own farms in Värmland, and investments are increasing. It is also estimated that this with housing obligations and price regulation on agricultural properties will prevent NOK 22 billion in investments in Norwegian farms in five years. So my question to the Council of State becomes about part of these, after all, the positive experiences that have been gained in Sweden, where liberalisation has been preceded, will be taken into account in the discussions in the agricultural communication that comes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e829	I have done some good on the follow-up to the Committee's comment, also in relation to BU, and will not go into any further detail on this at this time. With regard to the major agricultural policy debate, the Stortinge will have ample opportunity to address it. I hope that the government will be involved in the agricultural message, will be a good basis and indeed an invitation to find solutions here in the storeroom. I would nevertheless go so far as to say that I believe that the Progress Party will not be of those who applaud the message most when it comes – until there is the distance between the agricultural policy that the Government wants to stand for, and the Progress Party has expressed here in the Grand Chamber today, too much. It was very interesting to hear what trading opportunities and prices nesting on pigs could lead to in the future market. I get to take it with me as a good point, and see how this strikes. With regard to Anesland and Holm, there are people who have had many views on Norwegian agricultural policy over the years, which has also contributed to the general debate, in which everyone is allowed to participate. But it's probably not hard to cross the border with Sweden and find the opposite results. Many claim that Norwegian agricultural policy has failed today, but it could have been interesting over time and seen the impact of the agricultural policy that the Progress Party wants to implement. It would lead to a total conversion for District Norway, and there might be someone wanting it. And then it's goal achievement. The government does not have this perspective for District Norway in the future, and that is why we want to have a different roof on what is involved in agriculture, and it also follows what is involved in living and working conditions in general.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e842	When we dealt with the forest communication in our year, SV made a proposal to introduce the environmental regulation in forestry from then on. The majority of the population went in to get a voluntary scheme, and it was expected that it would go well. We can read in the nations today that it seems that this is going slowly, that environmental organisations feel partially abused, and that you do not follow this up. The question then arises: will the Council of State, if this results in correctness, come back to the Stortinget and ask for this environmental regulation to be introduced as soon as possible so that Norwegian forestry can receive such a quality stamp as such a regulation and type of operation? So the council says that he has an ambition to be in the front when it comes to antibiotic resistance, and I'm glad. It's necessary. But in other areas of the environment, it seems to be going in the wrong direction. It seems that the Government has turned on a tax-free policy without an environmental profile. Last year, the investment fee fell. I guess it's impossible to say that there's a green profile in such a loss – it goes mostly to the big ones and has little to do with the environment. Now the fertilizer charge falls. In fact, the level of the levy on plant protection products is increasing slightly, but it also appears that other tax havens are coming where it is difficult to see an environmental profile. Can the Council of State say a little if at least there is an ambition that fiscal policy, including towards agriculture, should have a green, environmentally friendly profile?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e853	The government lost in Stortinget in relation to the environmental regulations in forestry, and it was then referred to the Living Forest project and the cooperation, which I would say is positive, between business organisations and environmental organisations. As far as I understood, at least on parts of the majority of that debate, you should give this system a chance, to find out if this works. And if it doesn't work, maybe we'll get back to you if you have new needs on the research page. I am not ready today to say whether this has worked well enough or not, but I understand that the Storting wants to achieve this environmental impact in forestry. So to what was pointed out in terms of tax relief and investment tax. In the case of the investment levy and the other charges, it represents, in sum, approximately. 630 million. kr in saved costs for Norwegian agriculture per year. years. It is one of the areas where the Government and the Minister of Agriculture have seen an opportunity to try to improve the income picture of Norwegian agriculture in the future. That doesn't mean we're slacking down on the requirements, for example. in relation to the reduction of fertiliser use. We have said that we want to monitor the follow-up to the plans of the industry regarding the use of fertilizers. If they are followed, there will be no contamination, and then there will be a balance with the food intake. We'll follow this closely, even on the basis of the intentions that the replicator had. This applies to a charge that enters the country. The other fees – and now I might talk about taking in and distributing again – will not have any new income impact on industry as such, but there will be a redistribution within the use of instruments. I have said that with regard to the levy on pesticides, it will increase in the future as part of achieving a better result.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e860	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e863	The Party will recall that fish are Norway’s largest export product for oil and gas. Fishing exports in 1998 amounted to nearly 28 billion dollars. At the same time, we believe that industry's profitability can be improved by reducing regulation, more market-friendly products and better access to international markets. The Party recognises that the industry must be regulated to a certain extent, including: because no one has natural ownership of marine resources. However, there is a considerable gap between sensible regulation based on ensuring freedom of industry competition and the many regulations, regulations, rules and subsidy schemes currently in force. That is why we believe that, among other things: the law of the participant, the law of the raw fish industry and the system of fisheries agreements may be terminated. Rather, the authorities should concentrate on facilitating conditions through efficient resource monitoring, resource allocation and control. The Progress Party will also point out that aquaculture has become a significant driver of Norwegian coastal industry for the past 15 years. In this respect, we have noticed that there is a comprehensive legislation that intervenes in the farming industry. A whole of 17 significant legislations are included here, and these are mentioned in flång: the Breeding Act, the Pollution Act, the Fish Disease Act, the feed law, the Export Act, the Animal Protection Act, the Nature Conservation Act and the Wildlife Act, as well as a number of other laws that remain unmentioned here. The Party considers that the authorities should focus on the environment and veterinary requirements and that otherwise the legislation should be removed or simplified in order to improve the competitiveness and market adaptation of the farming industry. We also show that tourism is another of the country's major industries of growth. We will therefore underline the need for continued offensive international marketing of Norway as a travel destination. As the industry consists mainly of small and medium-sized enterprises without adequate opportunities for effective marketing abroad, it appears appropriate to continue to organise a common international marketing. In this context, we will therefore underline the importance of the Norwegian Tourist Council. We have also noted an international trend towards increasing concentration on the market and ownership side. This suggests that the Norwegian Tourism Council should develop differentiated marketing services which ensure that both small and medium-sized enterprises benefit from participating in the overall international marketing of Norway as a tourist destination. The Progress Party will continue to increase the level of support in the reimbursement scheme for seafarers to 20 pst. of gross compensation of employees, as the plan was when it was originally adopted. In addition, we want to include Norwegian foreign ferry companies and bow loaders for the transport of crude oil in the scheme. From general measures, we want to reduce the employer’s fee and liberalise the working time regulations of the Working Environment Act. We will reduce the taxes on beer, wine, spirits and tobacco in order to reduce the trade leakage to our neighbouring countries. Furthermore, we will reduce the petrol tax, the car diesel tax, the annual tax on passenger cars and the one-off fee. These are just a few points that can benefit our business life and at the same time strengthen the same business life.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e880	Norway has attractive raw materials and high levels of knowledge in many industries. Nevertheless, growth in mainland Norway is halting. In the budget presented in the autumn, it does not seem that the government had believed that this was possible to change. The Labour Party prioritised industry as one of the main areas of budgetary negotiations, and the Government’s willingness to really invest in new growth could be considerably greater. From the Labour Party we assume, among other things. strengthening the instrument for innovation and transformation in the coming years. An area that has had a positive development and that still has great growth potential is travel life. Many over 100,000 are currently employed in this industry, of which a significant proportion are women living in districts. As an export industry, travel is particularly dependent on what is happening in the international travel market and therefore also needs the country’s instrument to be both flexible and forward-looking. Prioritisation of regional and local development, infrastructure, networking, marketing and cross-sectoral cooperation will enable this industry to advance ahead of the development of tourism. We as state authorities have here a responsibility through our appropriations to facilitate this. An essential element to be followed up more closely is education and research. Many parts of Norway are missing, inter alia: health and safety at work. The need for an upgrade of the education page is clearly present in increasing international competition. Travel life is one of the major industries worldwide. And with us, it is also a significant economic factor, with significance for both the social economy and the trade balance, and – not least – for employment in Norway. This means that the industry also has its legitimate place in the budget debate. I look forward to having an opportunity to debate it in the context of the announced travel life message. Although Hurtigruta does not come under the Ministry of Industry's budget, I cannot fail to include it as one of the most important tourism products, in addition to the fact that it has meant, for a number of coastal ports and communities, growth and development, jobs and income. The Workers' Party will be a guarantor that it will continue to be a lifeblood that will enable it to meet the challenges of societal changes that are also facing large parts of Coast Norway. Another major export industry for employment and housing is the aquaculture industry. The natural advantages of Norway in this respect are, of course, dependent on economic policies that ensure competitiveness through low price and cost growth. However, in order to achieve a healthy and sustainable farming industry and exploit the high potential of the industry, there is a need for a strong commitment to research. Norway, in comparison with many other areas, has a high long-term potential for the production of healthy food from the sea. The industry has a great knowledge base, which we, as business policy makers, must use better in the political strategies further. The Labour Party believes that interaction and clear responsibilities will provide us with the best conditions for many of the jobs that have disappeared from Coast Norway to be compensated by increased value creation in the aquaculture industry. The Norwegian economy is at a high level, but we will still face economic challenges in the future. In a few years there will be a need for hundreds of thousands of new jobs. Therefore, the industrial policy task must be to manage and use resources in such a way that the welfare society can still provide the best possible living conditions for the inhabitants of all parts of the country. The principles of sustainable development and balance in the environment shall lead the industrial policy of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e899	I'm addressing the suggestions that the right has made in the setting. The central government, together with the Workers' Party, has almost made its settlement; it has been established that the competitive business has come through these negotiations. This is a message far from consistent with the facts, and it is presented in such a way that one would almost think they underestimate the ability of business to perceive the framework conditions to which they have to deal in day-to-day competition on the national and international markets. It is worrying that this historical and economic opportunity ahead of us is not being used to make the necessary transition to Norwegian business, both to give the competitive part better conditions, and not least to resolve the situation surrounding the protected business. There is a strong need for it, but it is not possible to use it this time. The Norwegian fishing industry is in an exceptional turbulent situation. The fact that you have less to fish on provides a basis for less activity, and if it will eventually bring less income, time will show. But at least it gives more political opportunity to work more actively for improved market access. Clearly, if we are to be able to increase the value creation and opportunities of this industry, efforts must be stepped up in this area. This applies not only to market access for processed products within the EU, which is our most important market; I also need to mention the ongoing WTO negotiations, or the recent outbreak in the Seattle battle. It is very important that the fishing industry does not fall so far on the Government's priority list that it simply falls out of the agenda of the forthcoming WTO negotiations. Furthermore, it is important that the Minister for Fisheries takes on the leadership of the Norwegian shellfish industry as regards the future and fate of the Norwegian shellfish industry. There is a problem in Norwegian industrial policy and administration that very much of what concerns existing businesses — and at least the emerging industries, which are to generate growth — is spread across too many departments. It must not be the case that an industry that has that potential will have the destiny of getting the vignette: nutrition for agriculture. I'm thinking about the seafood industry. It is very important now to put in place the instruments that are needed to get this industry, which has an enormous potential, to also become a high-growth industry in Coast Norway. This means that a control unit must be put in place as quickly as possible, veterinary arrangements must be put in place, and further research efforts must be stepped up in proportion to what has been taken into account. I have to repeat the message – for it is being presented again and again today that the competitive business is well protected through the budgetary process: the sharing model is worse. The competitive business has received relatively harsh and brutal tax increases at its allocation location. We have had relatively dramatic changes in the depreciation rules for construction, they are in fact double worse for construction in District Norway as in the more central districts. We have received an increased fee on fuel, we have increased car charges, the electricity charge has increased by 40 pst, and we have removed the AMS system. One thing is the system itself, but what kind of attitude is this to pass on to the Norwegian population? I don't think you've taken the trouble to think about it in these negotiations. In addition, the education chapter is weakened and, in fact, the cultural effort is also weakened. Therefore: Stop presenting the further message that the competitive business is protected in these negotiations. That's simply not the case.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e915	Ivar Kristiansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e918	Once again, there is reason to emphasise that the fishing industry is the largest export industry to oil and gas and that the fishing industry is based on a renewable but not unlimited resource. It is also appropriate to stress that the fishing industry plays an important role in the construction of our entire long-range country. So one might say that what is good for the fishing industry is good for Norway. The export value of Norwegian fish has doubled in the last ten years, and if we show it, it is quite possible to double it at least once more over the next ten years. This is realistic even if important species of fish, such as cod, appear to be falling. Success factor No.1 is without doubt that we will have an administrative regime in which the fishing capacity will be adapted to the resource base, in other words that it is accepted that only by taking care of the fish can we take care of the Norwegian fishing industry. I would also like to stress that the sustainable development and withdrawal of marine mammals is a serious factor, which must be handled more actively in the coming times. It is worth noting that the farmed fish make up about one third of the export value. This may grow enormously in the years to come. We have in the world the best natural conditions for breeding, and it's up to us to make the right grip. It's research that has assured us of the good results before breeding that we can show for today. In addition, I want to bring out the pioneers who went to test and fail, and who have made it possible for those who came after to expand and get a good way of living before this field. Breeding has had its childhood diseases, and there is reason to stress that there is no time to relax research efforts, nor when researching salmon is involved. It seems to me that we are now getting an increase in the opening of the new sea main at the farm station in Austevoll, and that it is marked that the farm station on Matre will be on the road with new buildings when next year's budget proposals come. But this is too small to count in relation to Sintef's advice to bet $1 billion a year on marine research. Without a doubt, the sea is hiding resources that we do not know the scope and potential of yet. It is an important signal when a Joint Nutrition Committee points out that Norway should compete and be fully involved in the international research front before the marine research. This is where Norway can expect to get its new promise based on a natural resource, like hydropower, oil and gas have been before. So far, above all, salmon farming has given us brilliant results, but it is all possible for us to produce other species in farming: cod, halibut and shellfish, not least blue-shell, which can be used both as food for people and as an ingredient in feed for farmed fish. I have to say that it is directly unmusical when the Research Council has said no to an application from the Veterinary College for research in exactly the area of further development of methods of analysis on marine algae toxins, and I expect the departments concerned to make the necessary contacts, and that SND will do the same and get the cabinet in place. Here it's going to bet, and here's not the right answer to say no. This may indicate that one person does not know what the other person is doing, and it is serious in itself. The fishing industry is subsidized and has co-winds, and we must make maximum use of it. It's an industry that goes with its face into the future. It is now a challenge to develop the fishing industry, with increased investment in advanced further processing and increased value creation. But in every respect, we have to take inwards that our own market is too small, and that access to and development of markets is entirely decisive in order for us to be able to unlock the potential of fishing industries. In this context, the outcome of the WTO round we are now in, is entirely decisive for Norway. In my view, it is absolutely necessary to make it clear that fish have the highest priority in these negotiations. It is in my opinion a high game to underestimate Norwegian fishing interests in these negotiations. In connection with this, I would also like to mention that the negotiating apparatus should be strengthened by a resource expert at our delegation in Geneva. It is alarming that Norway's fishing teams, for example, is not invited to participate in the Norwegian delegation in line with the pawn organisations. I also hope to get the Minister's comment on that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e946	A key objective underpinning the priorities of the Ministry of Fisheries budget for 2000 is to contribute to increased value creation both through research and development and through the organisation of legislation on fisheries and aquaculture. The profitability of the industry is an important prerequisite both for ensuring jobs and the settlement of the fisheries-dependent parts of the country and for the country's overall economy. In 1999, the total export value of the fisheries and aquaculture industry will be nearly DKK 30 billion. The export value of aquaculture has increased from DKK 9.6 billion last year to about DKK 12 billion current year, and a further increase is expected next year. Demand for seafood is growing on the world market, and there is stagnation in traditional fishing. It is then important that Norwegian aquaculture is in the position to be a significant supplier of seafood and marine products in the future. The authorities, in cooperation with the industry, will continue to develop the range of farming species and develop new markets. The marine industry currently employs about 15 000 people, directly and indirectly. There should be opportunities for several thousand new jobs in the coming years, subject to the development of the industry as a result of the creation of outlets in the markets. The problem of escape and lactus is still a challenge. Fish that escape, along with disease and lice, lead to a huge economic loss for the industry. Ruminant fish also represent a factor in relation to wild stocks of salmonids. The budget of the Directorate-General for Fisheries has therefore been allocated to follow-up action plans on escape and leachate. I welcome the Committee's positive attitude towards the measures put in place to further develop Norwegian shellfish industry, where growth potential is also very high. The Ministry of Fisheries, as I have explained at the meeting of the Economic and Social Committee on 24 November this year, has reinforced the commitment both in terms of monitoring programmes, quality control and disease issues. The dispute settlement industry shall be ensured through the ongoing regulatory review and through the coordination of the public sector instrument. Resource control in traditional fisheries will be maintained at a high level in 2000 and emphasis will be placed on sustainable stock taxation. Stock research will be significantly enhanced when a new marine research vessel comes into operation. Many of the regulated bottom fish stocks are now outside safe biological limits, according to researchers. Based on an overall assessment, it has been necessary to set allowances beyond the level which would bring stocks within safe limits in the short term. There are many considerations to be taken into account and in some cases it has been necessary to go in for a gradual reduction in the take-off rate in order to avoid excessive fluctuations in the industry. I will keep Stortinget informed about developments in this area next year. I share the Committee's concern for the growing stock of seals in the East and West. In the 1990s, Norwegian self-growth industry has suffered from low profitability and fishing activity has been maintained only as a result of public aid. The Ministry of Fisheries will develop strategies and measures to enable an operational self-rescue vessel in the future. Resources have been allocated to the fisheries agreement for operating aid and other grants for the following year, which will be a significant increase and extension compared to the previous one. We hope that there will be a basis for more shooting in both the East and West ice in the coming season. It is still necessary to reduce the total fishing capacity in the fishing fleet in order to improve structure and capacity adjustment. I am therefore pleased that the budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party has ensured an increased grant for fleet renewal and capacity adjustment. In addition to unit allowances for the concessional fleet, such arrangements are now being implemented for vessels operating with conventional gear. In the first instance this will be applied to vessels over 28 metres. Lowering the limit to less than 28 meters, as Stortinget has asked the Ministry of Fisheries to assess, requires further investigation, as this will interfere with the regulatory system. The Ministry of Fisheries's investigation has started well by, among other things, has soon implemented a project which gives us an overview of the fishing activity of a fishing vessel below 28 metres. In my view, it is important to clarify this so that no problems are created for this group in a regulatory way, and to ensure that unit quotas have a capacity reduction effect.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e972	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e975	On several occasions today, representatives and state councils who have spoken have been concerned that they should respect the comments made by the committees and that they should be followed up. I think it is positive that when it comes to the commitment that the Committee has shown to the divisional industry, there is a positive response from the Minister for Fisheries. He'll have that rose. In addition, the Committee has pointed out, in several respects, the value of this with extra research, and it has also been said that this budget is the product of it. I would like to point out, however, that when it comes to getting a new ocean exploration ship now, there is a requirement that two ships should be taken out of operation when this one comes on the air – at sea, then – and that there should actually be cooperation between the University and the Marine Research Institute, so that they can have a co-operation, and they see great challenges in the design of this ship. So I have a question for the Minister of Fisheries, whether he feels sure that the increased effort on the marine research page will be well enough taken care of when we now get a new research ship to replace two who go out, or whether one has to come closer to it. In addition, I would like to ask the Minister of Fisheries to continue to come back to the Storting with a case of separating the coast from the sea, and measures to reduce the fishing capacity of both the sea fleet and the coastal fishing fleet, in line with what the Committee and the Storting have asked for in the past. When can we expect to get such a thing?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e984	With regard to the construction of a new marine research vessel, it is clear that such a new ship will have a significantly larger capacity than the old ships. The fact that cooperation between the Institute of Marine Research and the University of Bergen has been right is, to the extent that a natural follow-up has been a good cooperation between the two institutions for many years, and the proposal that they can do this sharing has actually come from the Institute of Marine Research and the University of Bergen. And it is well because both institutions, both the University and the Marine Research Institute, see the need to get both a much better research tool through a new, large and modern marine research vessel, and thus also strengthen cooperation. As the Council of State, I have good faith that the proposal that has been made will benefit both the institutions and the research as a whole. We will remember that the project that is now under development will be something quite different from the two vessels to be taken out. So to the question of another division between coast and sea in terms of regulation, and also the lowering of the limit of unit quotas for conventional vessels. As we've been up to in the past, it's actually a complex relationship because the coastal fleet, which we now regulate from 6 to 28 meters, has such a mixed composition that it's difficult to say in advance what kind of fishing activity they want in the different fisheries. For this reason, it has been possible to implement regulations that have been beneficial to those who have been engaged throughout the year, including: in cod fishing. Now, when we're going to separate it out, to set new limits, we first have to look at what kind of activity the different vessels had. We have a computer program that has been developed so far. What remains is to see how we can maintain it. But we're going to come back to the Storting as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e993	The Minister for Fisheries said that the Department is now looking at what to do with self-afraid. And that's good. To the great surprise of the researchers, estimates of assumed Greenlandese islands in the East and West ice were almost three times higher than previously assumed. According to the Marine Research Institute, the total population is now likely to be over two million animals. There is reason to believe that this is the main reason why most fish stocks are strongly decreasing, as it is claimed that at least two times the total catch of fish caught by Norway and the EU is fishing in the northern regions is consumed. On the basis of these figures, the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea has recommended a fishing quota for this year of about 2 000 tonnes. 61,000 animals one year of age or older. The propulsion party believes that the large number of seals are thus involved in draining the sea of fish in the northern waters. During the examination of the fisheries notification in February of this year, the Party of Progress had a proposal to put in place sufficient measures to implement catches to reduce the stock of selves significantly. This was voted down by today's budget-mates. My question is therefore: can the Minister for Fisheries say anything about whether it is agreed that next year's catch quota must be increased drastically?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1004	Now it is that the part of the marine population in the northern region that is part of the food chain in the Barents Sea is a Russian population, the so-called white-sea population. Over two years of infrared camera counting, Russian researchers have increased the estimate from 700 000–800 000 to 2.2–2.3 million cells. Clearly, this is a major problem. Now, those quotas are set by Russian researchers and Russian authorities, and in the fisheries agreement we have with Russia, we are given a quota that we are given the opportunity to catch in the East Ice. Unfortunately, due to the economic situation of the self-employed, Norway has not had any fishing cuts or shipping companies that have been interested in entering and taking these quotas. So what the department is now working for is finding schemes that make shipping companies invest and make catch, so that we take our quotas both in the East and the West. What we hope for is that in the coming season there will be enough shots in place. This is probably the answer to the question that was raised about self-anxiety. But let me just say that the self-anxiety as such is regulated by allowances. However, there is no problem with the market except that the price of the sales, the rails, which is the actual market product, is so low in the market. We have tried to launch both research and development projects that can allow the entire carcass to be commercially exploited, especially the meat, but also the speck in some areas. There are interesting perspectives, especially for marine fat, which the speck represents.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1017	Some international media actually involve Norway in the blame for the breach of WTO negotiations in Seattle. What's right or not, I'm not going to express. However, when I see, for example, that representatives from the Farmers' and Farmers' Team express satisfaction with the results achieved so far, I believe that the warning lights will light up in Fisheries Norway, and it would be good to hear if the same warning lights will then be lit by the Minister for Fisheries. I don't think either the United States or the small countries of the world, the developing countries above all, who are dependent on exporting agricultural products, can accept over time the Norwegian Ole Brumm attitude, which in its strategy is to say, yes, thank you, both. When we see that the world's largest exporter of seafood in the agenda is as little visible as it has become, the question of the Minister of Fisheries has lost the impact of the Government on the Norwegian negotiating strategy in the WTO negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1026	If it's allowed to take the comparison that you read the media about as a certain man reads the Bible, I think that's what the representative of Kristiansen must have done. I can't see the relationship that he's drawn here. If Norway is to be the principal responsible for the breach in Seattle, where 134 countries have participated, and Norway is a state of 4.5 million people who market nothing for the big nations, then in my view – it is hopefully not irreverent to say so – there is a kind of big man madness in itself in which there is little realism. With regard to the Government's position on those negotiations, it is quite clear. The fishing industry had a position that, in my view, was quite excellent. If the Government had achieved the results of the WTO negotiations, we could have started negotiations from next year where market access for the fisheries industry had also been achieved, but separately from the negotiations on agriculture. That was the position of the Norwegian government: agriculture and fisheries have no connection. It was actually also a majority of the big countries that went in for the same thing, among other things. both the United States and the European Union. It was other things that led to the debate on the agenda coming together. What remains of the WTO decision on the agenda is that of the Uruguay Round negotiations, which agreed in 2000 to start with agriculture and investment. It was the enlarged agenda that unfortunately was not agreed on. We hope, of course, that new negotiations on the enlarged agenda will begin in the new year. And then we hope that fish will come along as a negotiating theme after the arrangement put in by the Government, which was also within what the United States and the EU have agreed to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1035	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1039	I am pleased with the budgetary agreement between the Labour Party and the Government Party. I mean otherwise, this country needs a plural government or a government with a more obliging plurality behind it in this room. This would make the framework conditions easier for business, for organisations and for individuals. I can appreciate the call for stability and frustration that significant changes occur twice a year. Mr Bondeviks and Mr Säle's answer to this is block independence. The Labour Party's response is a more long-term collaboration. The 2000 budget has gained a better social profile after the conciliation. It can be done, among other things. families with children, unemployed and part-time workers are pleased. The same can be true of municipalities that get better room for their important services. The business community has been given several assignments by the conciliation, including: the paint industry and have been affected by the framework conditions for oil-related activities. Especially happy is that the agreement contains increased efforts in relation to the conditioning and contracting of fishing boats with a warrant of 35 million. kr. All of this shall be part of the prevention and prevention of perms and lay-offs. In addition, the Labour Party has seen to it that there will be an increase of 3,500 jobless areas of action. These include: are used to enable the licensed and suspended industries to maintain and further develop the competences they possess and which will be needed in the future. To achieve this, action plans need to be established and legislation needs to adapt to the situation. A multiple in the committee, all except the Progress Party, lists the welds that need to be kept on making their certificates as an example. The same plurality asks the Government whether it is possible to combine the needs of the yard with the need for the restoration of old steel boats through the labour market seat or otherwise. Norway is very troubling in the maritime sector, among others Norwegian shipyards are largely competitive within their niches. There is a model that we must take care of and further develop. The same applies to shipping more generally. Here the country has long traditions to build on. It is gratifying that the number of Norwegian seafarers is increasing, and that all current apprentices now have an apprenticeship. The Labour Party shall support in the budget the reimbursement arrangements for Norwegian seafarers. It was time for the Labour Party's proposals, and it's to hope that it can now be fixed in the future. As case spokesman for the State Food and District Development Fund, SND, I am not particularly pleased that the conciliation led to a reduction in the commitment to development and project development. These are schemes that are important to help Ideas makers and establish up to profitable enterprises. There is still a small increase in the rate of development incentives for all shut-offs. In addition, a majority of the SND Committee authorises the use of the loss fund under item 51 to loss funds for both loans and guarantees. The guarantee scheme has shown itself to be important for enterprises in a critical situation, where cooperation between banks and SND has been decisive in finding a solution for the enterprise, especially in new industries where the risk is high. We have also found extra funds for the Institute of Technology and the Institute of Guidance in North Norway. On behalf of the Workers' Party, I would like to mention that the number of settlements in the setting points to the fact that the permissions of the tool in general and the country-wide schemes in the SND in particular have been reduced monthly in recent years. It is disproportionate to the need for a large scale of new enterprises and jobs to be created in the future. This obliges us all. The right-hand side's answer is like always taxed to the companies that are already making money. The labor party and the plural think there's a need for redistribution between those who make money and those who are under construction or in difficult periods. I would also like to mention that a number of countries have suggested that the nationwide systems before the SND are used throughout the country. Not least there will be a need for a great deal of activity in my home country, where the path of unemployment is dangerously fast. So to an important issue where the Labour Party was in the last few moments standing alone, simply in the organization to integrate the State Agricultural Bank into the SND. The formal integration takes place from 1 January next year, but we have to expect a certain transition period. In the long term, integration will lead to cost reductions, resulting in cost increases in the short term. The Labour Party has been somewhat uncertain as to what is contained in the budget of Appendix No. Three, and we're worried. The Labour Party believes that wage harmonisation is decisive for a successful integration. We also have doubts as to whether the permission for conversion is sufficient in relation to the distribution and settings of the groups that have ordered it. I hope that the representative Apelthun Seele with his reply reply earlier today represents the party's view, and that we can be sure that there will be a wage harmonisation and that the package of measures will otherwise be so that it can go smoothly. The Committee has received letters from trustees suggesting that the promises are too small, pointing out that early retirement applies only from 1 July 2000. I hope the Council of State can clarify this today, and that he sees the responsibility he and the government party have for facilitating a smooth transition process.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1060	We are constantly getting a new insight into the formidable tasks ahead of us in terms of conversion and innovation in Norwegian business. The value creation in mainland Norway must more than double over the next 20 years in order to maintain today's welfare society. In these years we have to create up to one million new jobs in perhaps as many as 200,000 new businesses. At the same time, a growing proportion of older people both make us relatively less active and make the health and care sectors need a greater share of the workforce. Our answer must be to get to conversion and innovation in a completely different way than what we've done now. If we are to have a debate in Norway on social fair distribution in 15-20 years too, we must have two thoughts in our head at the same time: distribute the values, but also create new ones. In short, we need to make Norway an attractive country for business and investment. I am pleased that the state budget for 2000 is so clearly geared towards innovation. This is also true of the current debate on food policy instruments. In particular, the arrangement is retained in the budgetary agreement concluded by the Government with the Workers' Party and in the nomination of the Trade Committee. I note that the Committee determines that knowledge and competence will be crucial to the competitiveness of businesses. Norway is one of the European countries that has invested at least in knowledge-based production. Both public and Norwegian businesses spend less money on research than countries we can compare with. In the Research Communication, the Government therefore states that Norway will rise to the OECD level in the share of GDP used for research and development over a five-year period. In the budget, we strengthen nutrition research through increased appropriations to the Norwegian Research Council, after a real decline in most of the 1990s. Furthermore, we will strengthen the facility for strategically important research areas by dividing the allocation to user-oriented research by industry from next year. Priority is given to information technology, industrial biotechnology and innovation projects. The other instrument must also focus on knowledge-based innovation across the country. SND’s activities have already undergone a clear turn-around in areas such as competence and innovation and currently have a broad portfolio of instruments that can all be used in this area. SND’s activity towards research parks and regional research environments is to be strengthened significantly, including: by stepping up the FORNY programme from 24 million to 44 million. kr and add to the newly established scheme of project development grants to help researchers and innovation to commercialise research results and good ideas. The allocation of research and development contracts is strengthened by about 10 pst. The scheme of regional seed funds will be further expanded through a new fund for the internal east. I have great expectations of this and the established seed funds. By being a visible instrument that can serve as meeting places for public and private capital and new business ideas, this can be an important instrument in innovation. In addition, for each of the funds, locally anchored seed samples will be established to connect closely with the actors; not least, research parks are important in such a context. Together with last year's budget, on behalf of the Government, I presented an action plan to make it easier to start and run small businesses. All tax and tax schemes notified in the plan that were included in the budget of the previous year, including: option schemes for small enterprises and tax reliefs in case of a generation change in family-owned enterprises will be continued next year. The resources of the Ministry of Industry and Trade’s own budget for the follow-up to the Action Plan are increasing significantly, mainly for intensified work on regulation, regulation and form simplification, as enshrined in the Government’s ‘Simplify Norway’ programme. In my view, the aim should be to develop our public sector as a competitive advantage for Norwegian enterprises. I dare say that the importance of knowledge and competence for the companies of the future can hardly be strongly emphasised. That is the starting point for the budget that is being debated here today, and that is why we are now turning the direction of industrial policy towards innovation, research and transformation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1081	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1084	Last year in the budget, the business advisory service took the flute. It was said to be transferred to SND, but in the next round the money went away too. It's now 100 pst. privately funded around the country. This year, the Council of State and the Government have proposed reductions in the promises of the Institute of Technology and the Institute of Guidance in North Norway. These proposals have probably not come in response to the need for money, but it seems that the Council of State wants these schemes to be privately financed and fully covered by those who use them. First of all, I would like to ask: how do my government council think that founders, imaginatives and founders who don't have that much money to pay with will be okay? How are we to ensure that no ideas fall off the road from idea to a profitable industry? It's actually so that not everyone has the money to pay for themselves. The majority of the committee, including the government party, has said, as I have mentioned here before today, that the agency has monthly reduced what debt allows in recent years. This is not in line with the need for a large scale of new enterprises and jobs in the future, according to the opinion of the majority. This is an obligation, said Apelthun Seele earlier today. Then I assume that the State Council of Sponheim is prepared to follow up the views of the majority of the population in this way, because this gives effect to the future. Governments said nothing about the integration of the Agricultural Bank into the SND. I would like to know that he now got what is contained in the proposal and the decision today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1095	Let me first underline what the replicant said that we have been through a few years with a tight budget, and within a tight budget, it must be given high priority in the Ministry of Agriculture's budget as well. That means that you want to strengthen some areas, it's also necessary to find some heads to subtract in other areas. There is also a background for us to find it necessary to make proposals for some cuts in the TI and VINN in the budget. I take note that the Committee and Stortinget today choose to return a few cents with other priorities, including: reduces the amount of funds allocated to SND. I fully share the basic view that government money must be used to strengthen advice and the important work done here, especially on the smallest enterprises and technology transfer. I think it might be even more important in the future to contribute to the money we spend, among other things. in those institutions, directly benefits small enterprises and business development. Now TI has had a development where, based on the freshest numbers I have, 74 pst. of their activities are self-financed. But it is equally vital that they have the resources to provide guidance to those companies that cannot afford to pay for it. It was so that we also had a debate on the BRT system last year. This has then become so that solutions have become available locally in various ways, but still substantial government money goes to this via SND, and agreements have been established. I have received reports that this works well in many places. When it comes to merging the Agricultural Bank and the SND, the work is going very well. The organisations are cooperating well, and I think we should give these organisations time to get a natural merger, get a natural location in positions, so that it becomes an organisation with the greatest possible wage harmony.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1106	I'm going to take Chapter 903 under Framework Area 9, which is about standardisation and appropriations here. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade is responsible for the organisation of a national standardisation and conformity assessment infrastructure and is proposed to allocate 35 million. to the four standardisation organisations under the responsibility of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. In the opinion of the Progress Party, standardisation activities in Norway have a very messy organisation. For this reason, we believe that we do not have the necessary counting, either on the administrative side, in technology or in getting better control. Each standardisation organisation operates with its sub-optimisation and maintains its resources. I'll do a couple of examples of that. In addition, we have the Norwegian Electrotechnical Committee under the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, while the State Telegovernment is under the Ministry of Transport. In Denmark, all standardisation activities have been merged into one organisation, and this works well. In the UK there are British Standards Institutes, which cover all areas of standardisation. So there is a great need for the reorganisation of standardisation activities. Norway, in its wisdom, has the power to be caught up with the greatest dispersal in the organisation of standardisation work and a corresponding messy financing. Will the Council of State consider a pooling of the many standardisation organisations to establish these activities as one organisation?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1115	I have read in the position being debated today that the Progress Party has a different view than the rest of the Committee on these things. I have to say that it is the view of the majority of the committee that is consistent with that of the department and my view. No major organisational changes in standardisation are planned on the part of the Ministry. That doesn't mean that we don't always work on how we can improve and do the different devices and services we have, even better.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1120	In such a debate there will be many details and details. I'll try to ask in relation to a main track. In such a debate as this, there are several teams expressing joy over different things. Some are happy that they get to an agreement, some are happy that the Government continues by its priorities, etc. – they're all very happy. I have recorded that they are concerned, in varying degrees at least have expressed this joy. For the area that we can call industrial policy in general, there have been relatively few outbursts of joy. It is true that the government councils in the various departments, and especially those who have received additions, are very pleased with this agreement. Following the two previous agreements, both the Minister of Industry and industry expressed some joy. I have not heard such an outbreak this year from business, nor from the Council of State. What I could imagine asking is, is that the arrangement this budget agreement has with regard to the general conditions of business, is it such that the Council of State seems natural to express a great deal of joy in relation to it? In that case, is there a line that he wants to continue, when it goes this year in the opposite direction of what it did last year? And does this have any bearing on the way in which the Council of State intends to work in the future? Is it so that he will continue this increasingly? Having said that, I must say that, in relation to the draft budget that was available from the Ministry of Industry, there are no major changes that have been made in the position that exists. The Committee has essentially joined in what was in place. But the question is whether the Council of State here and now will express joy over the change in course that has taken place.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1131	Let me first address the last, on the Ministry of Industry's budget, which is under consideration today. I share the opinion that there are no major changes. In what is often referred to as the ‘small enterprise policy’, which is directly linked to the Ministry of Industry’s budget and activity, mainly the Government’s proposals have been continued, and I am pleased with that. As I said in my post, it gives an opportunity now to slowly, but surely turn more and more of the activity into innovation and the new growth areas that we need very much. There is no problem for me as Minister of Industry to say that I would like to have an even greater and broader understanding of the need to spend money on such things. I think the state is going to have a more important and more important role to play in industrial development. There is a serious risk of setting up new businesses in the new knowledge technology, which requires an active country in important areas. Here I would like to encourage the Right to think again about the challenges of the future and acknowledge the need for the State to be active in taking some risk relief and otherwise active in relation to how we can commercialise, among other things. research results. It's probably within what we often call research-based business, very many of the unborn businesses are, and how much of the new activity will have to come. This is where the state will have to play an active role. So to the issue of business performance — not to say ‘large industrial policy’ — of the overall budgetary agreement. It is true that both the budgets made during the previous two years, supported by the two right parties, and the budget for this year, supported by the Workers' Party, have their main basis in a central budget submitted by the Government, where everything has continued significantly. So it's good, also the result that comes this year. However, I would like to stress that it was possible to have such an early budgetary clearance and not to have the uncertainty that we, for example. last year had quite beyond these times and even longer, is fundamental for the economy and for Norwegian businesses, who probably feel an uncertainty in a situation where very much flows in the large budget sizes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1140	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1143	If researchers are right, we need to create 800,000 new jobs in Norway for the first 20 years, as a substitute for the decline of traditional industries. This tells of the great pace of change and the need for change we are facing, a transformation driven by new markets, new technologies and new products. We have an increased internationalisation of trade and enterprises, which means that Norway and Norwegian enterprises are becoming more and more competitive, not only in terms of sales of products, but also in terms of acquiring and maintaining skills. Therefore, an important part of the policy on nutrition, which was also addressed by the Sponheim Council, will be to stimulate industries where we find opportunities for growth and development, such as: in knowledge-intensive and technology-based enterprises. We've got a lot of things to do. as an expressed objective to be a front edge when it relates to IT-related activity. We have also been, especially when it comes to telecommunications, infrastructure and the use of information technology. However, in today's Business Life on November 2 the heading «Norway loses it-racet» is still used. The basis for the appointment is an OECD report which shows that we are now slowing down in several areas before this sector. Throughout this ageing period, the majority of population have repeatedly stressed the urgency of facilitating regional development, strengthening educational provision and, not least, realizing an internationally competitive IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. Unfortunately, the government has not shown the same will, cork for quick realization or real bet on the Fornebu project. That is why, in the budget procedure, we also remind you that the majority of the last time we dealt with Fornebu-saka, repeated that the state must enter with a value corresponding to its own property in the area in question. In addition, the plurality expressed that the maximum option, of approximately 500 days, best will strengthen the overall concept. ‘Out with the cow and in with the IT’, wrote a newspaper ‘oppi dalom’ where I come from, ironizing over the perception that new information technologies are so liberating. I hope that not many people see IT as the only source of salvation, but we still have to look into developments and the consequences. We see that in the United States, the Internet industry is growing by 68 pst. This year. In Norway, the SSB reports that the IT industry now has more turnover than the oil industry. Another feature of the knowledge society is that it is the competence far more than the capital that is praised in the IT business. When competence is a scarcity factor, the price is also going to be high. More than ever, education policies include: the organisation of lifelong learning has become an industrial policy. This is also district policy. The training centre at Otta in Gudbrandsdalen is a good example of that. Here, young people and adults get students, among others. web-distributed IT education and teacher training from the University of Rena. These students live in the region, and jamming is also a growing knowledge-writing industry around them, which needs their skills and which gives them the development environment. Regional knowledge parks, research parks, business areas — or what one should now call the development environment — will be a necessary tool for reducing work and housing in this country. The planned Scandinavian language technology centre at Voss is also an interesting initiative and an important contribution to IT efforts in the regions. Overall, there are many signs that we are finally taking out some of the district-friendly potential of the new information and communication technology. With a reduced employer’s fee, it is interesting to establish and be out in the regions too many enterprises. But it's not the case that the Cue is going to go out and the Cue is going in. Agriculture is a soil block in much of Bygde-Noreg, an industry that faces major challenges of overproduction, likely to increase free trade and tackle the level of production aid. How to meet these challenges and solve them, we will come back in connection with the agricultural message, but to stick to the joy that Gabrielsen's representative was now in, I am also happy with some things here, including: that the entire Committee outside the Progress Party in the budgetary position determines that they are overarching the objectives of agricultural policy. Focusing so much on creating new jobs does not mean that the situation of existing – mostly small – enterprises is forgotten. There are many small enterprises that are dynamic, have good strategic plans, but have small developmental possibilities because of debt and lack of capital. We need to use our tools, etc. through the SND to provide these existing small businesses with much better development opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1168	I would like to address the chapters of the budget for which I am a spokesman, and a little walk into the framework area 11. First to cap. 911, heading 70, on the Institute of Technology. Here the majority address the challenges that small businesses face every day today, simply to acquire new knowledge and skills in order to be equipped to be actors in the society we are looking forward to. Technology procurement, product development and certification are alpha and omega if you intend to be an actor and a temporal product manufacturer in the future. In my view, with the extent of IT, it will also be possible for small businesses to obtain certification and competence directly without spending a lot of time and money on travel and training. But as we have increased the promise that the majority want to use the Institute of Technology in such a context as this, it is now up to the Institute to develop in this direction. That is why I look forward to the time that is coming, and on behalf of many small businesses, I hope this will be a good development. In the case of VINN, the Guidance Institute in North Norway, this also has a particular small enterprise profile. Yes, 95 pst. of the activities that receive help and support from VINN have added less than 50. An increase of 2 million. kr is in the same way as the promise to the Institute of Technology is a signal that we want small, creative enterprises to have a technological aid that is constantly up-to-date. When it comes to framework area 11, agriculture and we, as the trade committee, are going through very challenging times. In fact, today, in the richest part of the world, perhaps with the exception of Korea and Japan, food production is under intense pressure. Yes, it is that the people want the products, but at the same time there is no profession that becomes as much bully as the farmer. Every day it's producing food tried at a negative angle in the media. On that background, no one should be surprised that many Norwegian gardening uses are missing recruitment. While the above is said, there are many things to rejoice in Norwegian agriculture. Cape. 1107, on State Animal Health Supervision, on a European scale, is very happy reading. Norwegian animal health is good, and we have avoided the epidemic-like outbreaks of dangerous A diseases such as: The United Kingdom and Portugal experience this. It is necessary and pleasant that practical protection of animals in slaughterhouses is of high priority. When we in Norway have been closed in getting antibiotics out of the feed and we are in the process of establishing an effective veterinary border control, yes, then the slaughterhouse business must also improve on this with the humane treatment of animals at this stage. I have registered with pleasure that the Norwegian cooperative enterprises now invest 30 million. kr in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1181	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1184	I will benefit from my post for, among others. to mention forestry. During the debate on the agricultural agreement earlier this year, I expressed disappointment at the fact that the forestry organisations were not given room in the local SND boards when dealing with BU matters. I would therefore like to commend the Committee on the solution it has now chosen, namely to allow the Norwegian Forest Association and the Norwegian Fisheries Teams to participate in the local SND Boards and to obtain voting rights when dealing with matters which fall within the agricultural agreement and which fall within the Ministry of Fisheries' budgetary area. I am convinced that this is a very good solution, which will be greeted with joy by many. It is important to have a long-term perspective on the investments made in forestry. I therefore believe that it is very important that the state participates in these investments. For many years we have had a debate on forestry properties in the Eastern and East Agder regions, with a balance quantity of more than 3000 m3, to be eligible for subsidies for forest culture investments. I am very pleased that the number of committees is in favour of these forestry properties being eligible for subsidies to forest culture from the year 2000. I hope the grant schemes will be the same as for properties with a balance sheet quantity of less than 3000 m3. During the review of forest policy earlier this year, there was a broad consensus on increasing value creation in Norwegian forestry. In order to succeed in this important effort, not only is one dependent on State grants, but also a strong commitment and a positive attitude of all actors. The Norwegian Forest Company has a very important role to play in this work. An offensive information strategy will be essential for success. The forest company has made an excellent effort in this area, and it would be natural, as the committee majority points out, to involve the Norwegian Forest Company actively in the work on the value creation programme. The forestry company should therefore be granted by the Ministry of Agriculture with part of the appropriations made available for this work. The Ministry of Agriculture’s ‘Environmental Registration in Forest’ project is of great importance. I think it is good that the number of committees opens up so that funds can be provided for a compensation scheme for key biotopes. In the State budget for 2000, the Government proposed to introduce a levy on impregnated wood. I am pleased that the Storting rejected this proposal. I hope the Minister of Agriculture will start a dialogue with the timber industry to find other ways of solving the problems of, among others, the use of wood. chromium and arsenic on. The industry itself has prepared a draft regulation prohibiting the use of chromium and arsenic. There is also ongoing work to produce alternative additives. I hope the Government will support such work rather than impose an offensive, but pressured industry new taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1197	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 1046]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1211	The size has to be dealt with Document No. 8:61, which is, in short, a proposal to amend the Fish Diseases Act so as to provide, in accordance with the Livestock Act, the basis for the payment of compensation for losses incurred in the event of a disease found by the public in connection with the imposition of a public slaughter order. The proposal limits public liability to compensate only for outbreaks of Group A disease in the event of culling. An overall committee is in principle in favour of non-discrimination between the aquaculture industry and the livestock industry as regards compensation for the slaughter imposed, despite the fact that the provisions of the Fish Diseases Act were being dealt with in the Storting as late as the spring session of 1997, without any comments on the provisions at the time. The Committee does not consider it appropriate to make any replacement dependent on disease types, it must be linked to the loss resulting from a slaughter order. The matter has both principleal and economic consequences. Taking into account the average figures for later years, it can be assumed that public compensation payments will amount to 150 million. kr per. years. Furthermore, it is important to make the necessary clarifications in relation to the EEA Agreement. It may be that the compensation can be seen as a purely national matter, but if the Norwegian side goes further in providing compensation than it is done in EU countries, a thorough assessment must be made as to whether this can be regarded as State aid. That is why it is a unanimous nutrition committee that believes that many elements need to be assessed in greater detail and that the principle and economic consequences need to be explored. The Committee's recommendation is that the document be annexed to the minutes. Furthermore, it is recommended that the Storting should agree that the Government should return to the matter in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1228	Since the 1987 revision of the legislation, compulsorily notifiable diseases in farmed fish have been grouped in groups A, B and C. In both the provisional law of 22 June 1990 and the last law of 1 January 1998, the Fish Diseases Act, it is referred to in Chapter 4.2, inter alia.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘A diseases include malignant infectious diseases which will have particularly serious economic or ecological consequences.’ Diseases in this group are attempted to eradicate immediate slaughter, what is called "stamping out" if they are to appear. Examples of Group A fish diseases are IHN and VHS. For these diseases, Norway has also committed itself, through agreements with the EU, to ‘stamping out’ of, for example: salmonids in case of detection of the infectious agent, in fact without an outbreak of clinical disease. In the case of the destruction of livestock at the direction of the Ministry of Agriculture due to the detection of infectious disease, the owner will be compensated by discretion under the Animal Disease Action Act, the Animal Law. It shall be valued at the value which the animals would have had in a healthy state. Similarly, the case does not apply to the aquaculture industry. When establishing group A disease in farms, the Ministry of Agriculture imposes ‘stamping out’. Section 23 of the Fish Diseases Act states: «Economic losses resulting from measures imposed by law here are not replaced by public expenditure.» It is important to note here that insurance companies do not pay any compensation on the basis of what they define as ‘the intervention of authorities’. So far it's only, as far as I know, detected Class A diseases once in 25 years. The United Kingdom, a competitor of the European salmon and trout market, provides financial compensation to its farmers in the same situation. The proposers welcome the fact that the Committee does not consider it appropriate for any replacement to be made depending on the type of disease. It must be linked to the loss resulting from an actual killing order. This means, in practice, that there may be coverage for diseases other than Class A diseases. The proponents of the Party of Progress are pleased that an overall committee is in favour of non-discrimination between the aquaculture industry and the livestock industry as regards compensation for the slaughter imposed. We all wished to take a decision on the basis of the present proposal. However, we find it most favourable to the matter that it is recommended unanimously and looks forward to rapid approval in line with the wishes of the proposers after the ministry has clarified the principle and economic consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1256	Marine farming has grown to become a major industry in Norway with an expected export value in 1999 of about 2 %. DKr 12 billion. Norway has, as we know, a particular natural and infrastructure advantage for this industry, and the potential for development is very high. The marine industry has also gradually become a highly complex and complex industry. Disease outbreaks and substitution schemes are one of many aspects of this rapidly growing industry. In accordance with the decision of the Stortinge, cf. Inner. S. No 93 for 1998-99, the Ministry of Fisheries has undertaken a specific effort to clarify and develop the strategies that, on the basis of an overall assessment, are expected to promote the Norwegian aquaculture industry best. This includes the development of long-term national strategies for the Norwegian farming industry, the aim of which is to ensure the industrial framework conditions needed by industry in order to develop in Norway. Fisheries authorities are faced with a major challenge in developing management systems that continue to benefit from competition while at the same time providing credible and sound evidence of safety and security. As regards the health status of the Norwegian farming industry, it has improved significantly in recent years due to disease prevention work, improved vaccines, operational methods and general knowledge of fish health. Both research, industry's own efforts and administrative legislative and action have contributed to this. Good cooperation with industry in all areas has been developed in recent years. However, outbreaks of disease on fish in plants cannot be completely avoided. That's after all the biological production we're dealing with, and many possible pathogens and latent pathogens. This industry has also learned to live with. Breeders have the possibility of insuring against losses of disease. I am a little uncertain about what the representative Knudsen said, that it will not be possible to insure against compulsory slaughter in the event of an outbreak of disease. At least that's not in accordance with the information we're in. It is the impression of the Ministry of Fisheries that most people take advantage of the possibility of the insurance scheme to insure themselves against most things that may arise from unforeseen events, both in the event of an accident of installations and of an outbreak of disease. The Ministry of Fisheries cooperates closely with the Ministry of Agriculture in matters relating to disease issues in aquaculture and farming. The Ministry of Fisheries will contribute to the analysis of the impact of the various measures requested by the Committee. In this context, it may be possible to look at the arrangements for the recovery of the excess, as requested by the Committee. In this work, we will also move on to the good cooperation we have with the industry, to find the right grips that can help alleviate the financial risk for individual plants in the event of major outbreaks of disease in Norway. Let me just say that Norwegian farming is in the fortunate situation that it has come a long way in preventive work in the case of outbreaks of disease, and it has been prudent for the large outbreaks that English and Scottish farming have been exposed to. The fact that the UK authorities are taking support measures to address the economic problems caused by the major ILA outbreaks in the industry may well be seen in the context of trying at all to maintain the industry at the level you want.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1273	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1064]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1287	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1064]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1301	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 35 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 5 minutes, Progress Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party, Center Party and Left together 10 minutes, Right 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, and Representative Bastesen 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It is considered biphasic.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1310	This case – examination of Document No. 8:72 - for proposals to allow the continued use of the feed additive zinc bacitracin. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right, consider that the use of zinc bacitracin as feed supplements should continue. I take it as being that the majority itself will put forward its argument. A minority, on the other hand, the members of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left, subscribe to the Government's view on the prohibition of antibiotics in animal feed, in this case the addition of zinc bacitracin. Although the presence of bacteria resistant to zinc bacitracin has not been reported, special studies have shown that some bacteria have mechanisms of resistance to bacitracin. A ban is supported by both the WHO and the EU, which has banned zinc bacitracin as a feed additive. Norway places significant emphasis on animal health and food safety. It would be unfortunate if Norway in this area would have a less restrictive policy than the EU. The European Court of Justice places greater emphasis on public health than on economic considerations in the case brought against the EU by the manufacturers of zinc bacitracin. The Court of Justice also refused to suspend the prohibition until a judicial decision has been taken. The discussion on food, ecology and infectious diseases illustrates how social medicine and politics overlap, interact. From that point of view, I turned to the socio-medical environment to seek knowledge. There I was given references to Professor Steinar Westin at the Institute of Societal Medicine. I refer to the majority of the Committee, which believes that ‘in order to prohibit a particular substance, there is a need for scientific evidence’, etc. So what does Professor Westin say about this? I quote: ‘But what keeps frightening us — what some of us almost don’t think — is that antibiotics in many variants continue to be used as growth promoters and feed additives. ... the mechanisms behind the faster growth are not completely clear, and may have interesting parallels in human medicine. ... the Norwegian bacitracin produced is still in use as a feed additive. The fact that what is called for as positive evidence that such use can contribute to the induction of resistance in human pathogenic microbes, I do not understand that.’ And there's a professor who says. He goes on to say: ‘For here any reasonable ecological reasoning should have resulted in a long-term ban. We probably know about cross-resistance and infectious resistance to it. ... One must then say wait until the resistance has arisen, until the accident has occurred,’ for only then has a proof. In addition, the professor says: ‘As a doctor, we should incessantly report that this use of antibiotics is madness. And let's not hear any good news that this with bacitracin is a Norwegian export success! Outside or at home – equally wrong it is.’ When it comes to food, ecology and public health, Westin says we must not be governed by politicians with short memory and little ability to see important contexts. Biological material, animals and animal products behave differently from cars, refrigerators and washing powder. It is this knowledge and knowledge that must be taken into account when we deal with a matter as important as this one. My deep hope is that although there is a majority in the committee, there will not be such a majority in this case in this Chamber. With these words, I recommend the Stortinget to support the minority proposal in the committee, and I will, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left, address the minority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1342	Leif Helge Kongshaug has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1345	I can assure the representative Kongshaug that I am not going to talk about cars and refrigerators, but I may be talking about people. In 1988, eleven years ago, as Oslo representative at Stortinget, I was contacted by the Norwegian Chemical Industrial Workers' Association and the trust elected by the Pharmacy Laboratory, now called Alpharma. 370 employees were threatened by deflagration or deflagration. The main product of the holding, zinc bacitracin, was proposed to be banned from 1 January 1989 as part of a major case of antibiotics in animal feed. Oslo had at that time lost approx. 40000 industrial and industrial workplaces. An entire generation of industrial workers over the age of 50 went into early retirement or disability leave in the 1980s. They're still there. At the same time, the Norwegian pharmaceutical industry was becoming an important export industry and important for Norwegian value creation, so that we might also get money for other sectors of this country. No matter what the previous representative says, it's also an important part of this. Following an overall enquiry from a cross-political Oslo bench 11 years ago, the Ministry of Agriculture carried out thorough scientific studies on the feed supplement zinc bacitracin. The current Minister of Agriculture Gunhild Eyeyang exempted zinc bacitracin from the ban on antibiotics in animal feed on a professional and scientific basis. Zinc bacitracin, a pure natural product, had been used in many countries for decades, without anyone having been able to detect adverse consequences or effects. On the contrary, the availability of the product had prevented the use of stronger substances with resistance effects. And I'd like to add: this is not a hormone preparation. Today, Alpharma has production facilities in both Oslo, Buskerud and Nord-Trøndelag. The product zinc bacitracin from Alpharma has had up to 70 pst. of the world market and is not only the company’s basic product but one of Norway’s most important individual export products. In addition, Alpharma is a major producer of medicines and pharmaceutical products in Norway and an important Norwegian alternative to the multinational pharmaceuticals. The pharmaceutical industry is still one of the parts of Norwegian business that into the knowledge age ensures value creation and thus the basis of our welfare system. A restrictive approach to the use of antibiotics is necessary and correct, and I am the first to recognise it. However, over 40 years of use of zinc bacitracin has not demonstrated cross-resistance potential. Therefore, the majority of the Business Committee also stresses that the inclusion of a precautionary principle is not particularly relevant in this case. This position is shared among others. by the Veterinary Institute in a letter of consultation to the Ministry of Agriculture of 26 April 1999. It can be added that when the EU put Alpharma’s product on the ban list last December, it led, among other things, to for British farmers to use a much stronger and resistant feed supplement with some drastic consequences. This does show that the EU decision has more to do with protectionism than with scientific accuracy. Zinc bacitracin from Albac currently has large parts of the US market. It is also clarified in a letter from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that Norway is free in this matter under the EEA Agreement. The majority of the committee has also underlined the need for Norway to make a completely independent assessment of the case. Finally, may I make a heart attack: a paradox in the arduousness of the Ministry of Agriculture to ban zinc bacitracin is that in Norway there are three feed supplements that many consider to be significant thicker, namely coccidiostats. Why does the Ministry of Agriculture not propose to prohibit these? No, because they are used in Norwegian chicken farming, and a ban would mean the end of the industry. This must at best be called double standards by the Ministry of Agriculture. As there are a lot of people who have gone through these substances too, it is at least not right to come and say that these are completely different types of products – it is, but they are at least not pure natural products. It is only that jobs in that sector of the Ministry of Agriculture are likely to be much more important than industrial workplaces. For me, both categories of jobs mean a lot.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1368	All the political parties in the Storting agree that an alert attitude to the use of antibiotics in animal feed is necessary. The reason for this is, among other things: the risk of development of resistance. However, this issue is about whether we should go significantly beyond what is necessary and professionally justified by the introduction of a general ban on feed antibiotics in Norway. That's what the government now has to assess. I think it is right in such a context to listen to what are the professional positions, not just to introduce a general ban because we have to be as restrictive as possible. That's why I think it's important to focus on it, among other things. The Veterinary Institute concludes in its opinion on a possible prohibition: ‘On the basis of the arguments set out above, one considers that there is no professional basis for a general ban on feed antibiotics in Norway. A ban could have adverse consequences.’ So as far as I understand, there are no professional reasons why the government wants to impose a general ban. The Veterinary Institute points out that a ban could have adverse consequences, yes, the Institute writes: ‘A general ban on the use of feed antibiotics should be assessed against the consequences of the prohibition. There is reason to believe that a ban,’... ‘may result in the need for therapeutic substances. From our current point of view, such use of some therapeutic substances can be more worrying, both because of it. the resistance problem and also from the residue problem.’;» All antibiotics differ in their structure and characteristics. Each substance must therefore be evaluated separately. It also applies to zinc bacitracin. All research over 40 years has shown that this substance does not cause resistance problems. The substance only works in the intestine. In other words, it is not absorbed into the tissue, and it is rapidly broken down into nature. Nor will it be relevant to refer to the precautionary principle as the basis for the Government’s position. The Veterinary Institute writes that a general ban can lead to more objectionable conditions. While zinc bacitracin is classified as antibiotics in the feed law, three other substances are classified as coccidiostats. These substances are also antibiotics. Unlike zinc bacitracin, such substances are used in Norway today — about. 5 tonnes per year. Almost every chicken is given one of these three antibiotics in the feed daily. So a timely question must be: why should Norway have a ban on a product that is almost not in use here in the country, while other antibiotics, so-called coccidiostats, used for chicken production at home, should still be allowed? From this point of view, some people can get the impression that the Norwegian government wants to protect the agricultural industry, something that the representative Nybakk was also involved in. There are also other consequences of such a general ban. Zinc bacitracin is currently produced by Alpharma. This company has a significant business, with over 500 employees and several factory plants in Norway. We are all well aware that the EU Agriculture Council has decided to introduce a temporary ban from 1 July 1999 on the use of four antibiotics in animal feed, including zinc bacitracin. But this matter has not been resolved. Alpharma has raised two issues against the EU. The company has filed a case for suspension of the temporary ban. This has been rejected by the Court of First Instance on the grounds that such a temporary prohibition does not have an adequate financial adverse effect on Alpharma. The company has also raised a case where it requires a reversal of the decision, because it is not scientifically anchored. This case has not yet been dealt with. The company has also brought the case before the WTO, on the grounds that the EU decision has a trade policy effect contrary to the Treaties of which Norway is bound. In such a situation, the Norwegian Government wishes to introduce a general ban, while an important Norwegian company is in the middle of a process with the EU and the WTO. The party of progress is part of the majority here in Stortinget that will oppose this. The majority disagree with the Government in the matter. There is no clear justification for a hazard arising from the continued use of the feed supplement zinc bacitracin. Nor can it be right for the Norwegian Government to run ahead of the EU institutions in alignment when it conflicts with important Norwegian interests.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1406	The issue of the zinc bacitracin additive — which has such a difficult name that I almost cannot say it — is a matter of the scientific evidence or non-proofs that can be provided, but it is also about the kind of attitude that Norway as a country should take in terms of the overall use of antibiotics, and about having a general policy on it. It is obvious, among other things. our ability to influence attitudes in other countries regarding the use of antibiotics will be greatly reduced if we accept the production of zinc bacitracin — when it is banned in the rest of Europe. The lack of knowledge about the development of antibiotic resistance does not necessarily mean that such resistance does not exist. I think it's a little sad that you don't see the overall political aspects of this case, and that, when we're free, we choose an attitude that makes us lose the opportunity we have to be broke when it comes to such important issues. For this is the total use of such means. Other more widely used means have been identified in Norwegian agriculture and are authorised coccidiostats. There may be some doubts as to the amount of their use and as to whether their hazard can be compared with the hazard of zinc bacitracin. The reality is that the matter we are dealing with today concerns a substance that Norwegian agriculture has chosen to phase out, and there, among other things. Norsvin says in a statement that they propose a ban, because then business, which produces, will be able to immediately find something better. That is a very good argument. But there are such substances, and there may be reason to be concerned about the amount of them. The concern is shared by SV. The Ministry should take a very serious view of the use of these funds. There is no reason to have a kind of protectionist attitude towards their use, the amount of them, or whether they should be approved at all. That's what I think I have to be completely clear. Using it as an argument for increasing, or not imposing a ban because you want to export the product, I think it's too short-term argument. It should be such that it is up to the producer of the various substances to prove that the product is harmless, not that the authorities subsequently spend many years in the same way and that the risk must manifest itself in damage before a drug can be banned. The pre-goods principle is a difficult principle to practice in terms of the number of years of use that is sufficient to say if the substance is dangerous. This is difficult, and it's a scientific question that I'm not going to go into. But I see that the amount of such substances is too large and has to be reduced. Therefore, it is a political position when SV wants to support the Government in this matter. I also refer to what is in the setting that it is possible to get the substance approved for use in Indisians, if you would like to use it in Norwegian agriculture. The needs you have in this area could be met here. I would like to say on a general basis that we should not have as a Norwegian policy that we should be liberal in terms of such rules. It is important that, through a regulatory framework and through an environmental profile, we impose requirements on our industry that enable it to develop, be in the forefront and be competitive in the future. We don't do that by being liberal in such a way that you can keep producing something that we know will be phased out.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1425	Int. S. No 272 for 1996-97 on food quality and consumer safety has asked the Government to assess the impact of any ban on the use of feed antibiotics in Norway. I expect this was done in recognition of the fact that the use of antibiotics as a feed additive will help increase the potential for the development of resistant bacteria. Such resistance could also be transferred from one bacterium to another and create problems in the treatment of infectious diseases. The government has therefore assessed for a longer time the introduction of a general ban on the use of antibiotics as a feed additive. A proposal to amend the feed regulation on the introduction of a general ban was sent at the hearing in January 1999. The Hearing Officers are divided in their views on the proposal. The agricultural industry, health authorities and parts of the professional community support the proposal, while industry and other sectors of the professional community oppose it. Although findings of bacteria resistant to zinc bacitracin have not been reported, according to the Veterinary Institute and the Norwegian veterinary high school, special studies have shown that some bacteria have resistance mechanisms to bacitracin. The government's restrictive approach to this issue is supported by World Health Organisation opinions, which recommend that antibiotics should not be used as an additive in feed if the substance is also used in medicine. The EU also builds its own ban on the use of four antibiotics, including zinc bacitracin, among others. to this recommendation of the WHO. Norway has a derogation from the EEA Agreement as regards antibiotics in feed. This exception means that we are not bound by the EU ban. However, the continued authorisation of Norway to use substances in feed prohibited in the EU may be given weight in terms of our reputation as a food producer. Norway has generally enjoyed good animal health and a restrictive use of medicinal products in feed. If the Government's proposals are not followed up, it will be noted that Norway has a less restrictive policy on zinc bacitracin than any country we can compare with. The decision of the budget could also help our own agricultural industry to adopt a less restrictive approach to the use of this type of feed additive, which I think is worrying. I expect that the debate might be different if this consumption had been significantly greater in own food production than is the case today. Where it is claimed that exports of zinc bacitracin to other countries depend on the fact that it is authorised in the producer country, in this case Norway, this is related to the absence of legislation in this area in these countries. In my opinion, this means that we should exercise extra caution. When reference is made in the debate to coccidiostats, I would like to point out, as the Committee is also informed, that the ministry has asked for a review of these substances in order to have them evaluated in the same way, as I have asked the same questions in relation to their use. I am of that opinion, and the Government is of the opinion that any addition of substances to feed that could be called into question should have a restrictive and sought-after attitude to – it must not affect production in Norwegian agriculture. Today's decision will mean that in line with this, I will have to stop the ongoing work on amending the feed regulation on a general ban on the use of antibiotics as an additive in feed. I think it is a fairly strict imposition on the Minister of Agriculture and on the Government, but the Council of State must, of course, take note of it. I hope that we agree that the most important thing in any food production is that we have environmental conditions that do not require the addition of this type of antibiotic to feed in order to possibly counteract unfortunate environmental conditions that may be in the production that is going on. That's why the main challenge is that we have a production environment that makes you avoid using these substances that we're talking about today. I admit that I am not happy with this decision, but of course I have to take note of it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1451	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1454	: I am convinced that it is a matter of time before a ban on antibiotics in feed forces. That's what people want, it's a matter of when the ban comes. There are always good arguments to use employment considerations, but sometimes those arguments have to give up. This is a question of the use of antibiotics to control disease, or the use of it to prevent disease in healthy animals, or perhaps even to increase the growth of healthy animals. I'm very disappointed that it seems to end with a majority against the ban proposed by the ministry, this is in spite of all the heavy trends in time. No one requires antibiotics to be used in animal feed in Norway. Agriculture wants to get rid of the possibilities of using it, and consumers require the safety of food to be clean and free from foamy additives. People are getting more and more scared about such drugs. The majority are in favour of the Norwegian people, and the majority are in favour of the recommendations of the World Health Organization, which says that we should ensure that medicine works when medicine is needed to combat diseases. Antibiotics have been extremely important in combating serious public diseases. We have to be careful so we have those opportunities in that fight still. The Health and Veterinary College has, among other things: argued in this way. The use of medicine when the veterinarian believes it is necessary should give the company an opportunity to transform the production and get the substance into the medical list. There are many enterprises that have to convert their production due to changes in environmental and health requirements. Often we see that such businesses are able to find profitable conversions. Among other things, I can mentioned the heavy industry, which has cleaned away the dust from its emissions and has obtained a profitable sales product. I know Alpharma as a company that is capable of developing new things, among other things. in fish vaccines and related areas, and I believe that the holding when the ban comes – because that ban will come – will be able to employ its people.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1463	In the 1970s and beyond, two types of feed, especially in pig feed, were common: growth feed without antibiotic addition and growth feed with antibiotics. In particular, in order to prevent the loss of mammals by weaning, antibiotics were particularly used against colibacterial attacks. This was a bad circle industry had to get out of if it was to be troubling as a supplier of safe food. Therefore, great resources have been used to come on the offensive to strengthen the immune system of the animals, so that one thus keeps diseases at a distance. This has been largely closed in Norway, and now several countries are coming. The next step now was to remove the ability to add antibiotics in feed. Then there's the big crowd jumping off and getting cold feet. It is search – and short-sighted. In addition, when the EU comes to the same conclusion, with a ban, this should at least be a signal to the majority that it has something in common. Antibiotics added to feed are a compensation for defective animal husbandry. For this reason, a few gains will be made when there is a debt of growth and performance where there are many animals and there is a lack of operations, or else in the short term. In the long run, however, this reminds me of my grandfather when he told me about the time of the winter cod fishing: there was a brief heat on the fingers when a hit lens on the seagoing vessels.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1473	There's a strange suggestion that's been made here. Who has actually asked for this? Is it Norwegian agriculture that believes in getting healthy animals, or is it Norwegian consumers that expect to get enough antibiotics to stay healthy at all times? No, as I am aware, none of them that is most important to ask in such a case, asked for it or in any way wanted it. The agricultural industry has practised the self-imposed practice against the use of antibiotics in feed. On the other hand, they cheer at Alpharma AS on Skøen in Oslo about what appears to be the decision. These have been the largest bacitracin producer in the world for a number of years. When the government warned against, the company called for warning. It is quite simply that half of the exports from this company depend on the substance being approved in Norway. Many importing countries simply require evidence that zinc bacitracin has been authorised in the country of production. ‘It is essential for us that it is not prohibited in Norway’, says the Director of Alpharma, Einar W. Sissener, to the Nation on 3 December. "It is therefore with great joy and satisfaction that we see that we have political support for our arguments," he continues. I have a great understanding of the representative Nybakk's commitment to industrial workplaces in Oslo, but I'm very surprised that the plural does not think further about the consequences of what they're doing here. Here one with open eyes still allows the use of zinc bacitracin for saving jobs, without looking at the consequences. So stubborn it should not be allowed to think! The representative, Opseth, said in the debate earlier today that the Labour Party was at least as busy with pure food as the Centre Party, but he did not understand why it had to be left with pure food in the EU. The centre party must find other battlefields when they do not like the EU, said Opseth today. Here we now have a case of clean and safe food outside the EU, where we do not need to think about the EEA Directive or other. And what then does the Workers' Party and the Right Party and the Advance Party propose? Yau, to allow zinc bacitracin in animal feed, with the consequence that it may be obtained. When do these parties manage to take a self-assessment in relation to pure and safe food, when it's what consumers want? There is no doubt that the use of antibiotics in animal feed could lead to the development of resistant bacteria in both animals and humans in the long term. It also says a lot of the hearing agencies.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1488	There has been a lot of talk in this debate about leading where, showing caution, having an active, critical attitude and exercising great discretion when considering continuing to allow zinc bacitracin used in Norway. I think it is underestimated that this substance has been on the market for 40 years. According to the Veterinary Institute, ‘relatively extensive studies’ — which is the term used by the Veterinary Institute — have been carried out without it being possible to demonstrate cross-resistance. I have to say, however, that if the government had said that here we put away all the scientific considerations and go to a purely principleal point of view, namely to ban all the use of antibiotics in feed, we could in one way have had a principleal and ideological debate in the Storting on that today. But that's not what the government does. The government is in favour of prohibiting one feed supplement, while there is no position on a principle basis on the use of coccidiostats. After hearing all the speeches on clean food, and the great concern of the Council of State that the continued use of zinc bacitracin should be allowed, it is natural to ask the question: Will the Council of State and the Centre now recommend Norwegian consumers not to eat Norwegian chicken? Is it dangerous for Norwegian consumers to eat Norwegian chicken? The use of 5 tonnes of a feed supplement per year is therefore allowed for the use of antibiotics. And the definition of the Veterinary Institute is quite clear: coccidiostats are also antibiotics. That question now clearly hangs in the air here in the hall. I think, not least, the Council of State should have an opinion on whether or not to accept the use of a substance that leads almost to impure food, unsafe food, dangerous food, for Norwegian consumers. The Veterinary Institute is quite clear in its conclusion that the problem with the proposal that could lead to us banning both zinc bacitracin and possibly coccidiostats is that we are likely to have a veterinary medicine regime that requires us to use other substances that can really lead to the problems of the minority. And that's not what you choose to comment on at all. Thus, this symbol policy becomes, and the majority intends not to contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1501	Individually, the debate raises a question about the use and use of antibiotics as a feed supplement. It's not about it at all. Nor does it concern that anyone here has a less restrictive attitude when it comes to the addition of feed. It is only a specific substance, zinc bacitracin, which has been used for 40 years without any evidence of harm. It's referred to the agricultural industry, and it's referred to the Norwegian population, that we're indifferent to the people's unity. But if it is such that Norwegian agriculture is so much against such additions, why do they not go against coccidiostats that are used domestically in chicken farming? If they had been something more trustworthy, they would have. The Gjønes Council also stated that the debate might have been different on the substance zinc bacitracin had been used domestically. Yes, I would think so, but then in a slightly different way than what perhaps the Council of State of the Greens thinks. Then I think that if we had seen for ourselves that we had benefited from this substance, it would not have been so imperative to prohibit it. The other two substances that are used in the production of chicken are of benefit to us, and therefore no one is pressuring to ban it. But when it comes to zinc bacitracin, there are many others who benefit from it, not least poor countries, because this is a substance that is used to increase animal nutrition, so that they make better use of the feed than if they didn't get this supplement. I have actually heard that the value of this in poor countries corresponds to the grain production to feed hundreds of thousands of people. When it comes to other countries, it should also be quite relevant that this is, in total, a substance that has been proven so far to have only a positive effect and a lot to say to many people. Therefore, Norway should not be regarded as less restrictive in relation to additions that are associated with the use of zinc bacitracin. Therefore, this is not a question of for or against antibiotics in general. If it were, we would also have measured the other substances.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1521	It's starting to get a little emotional in between, and it's clear that when you argue about calling a certain substance a scary additive, you start playing on special things. And when the Council of State says it will be noticed in the European Union that we do not follow them, it is well that in the European Union we are used to doing other things here in Norway. This discussion is therefore whether or not to ban a substance not used in Norway, and the Government will therefore continue to allow the use of the substances used in Norwegian chicken production. As far as I know, 5 tons of antibiotics are used in Norwegian chicken production. My question to the Council of State is this: if on a general basis antibiotics are to be banned as a feed additive, it must mean that a Norwegian consumer must not really advise Norwegian consumers to buy Norwegian chicken – which is currently in the shops just outside this house – not because the substance we are discussing today is added to the feed, but because the substances we are not discussing are added. And that must mean that one as a remedial measure in order that we cannot buy Norwegian chicken must import EU chicken, where it is just a ban on this substance. This is going to turn things a little bit on my head at my discretion. When a person starts discussing politically which substances should be allowed and which should not be allowed, I feel that it is very difficult to do anything other than recommend that a follow the advice that comes from the competent authority, on which we spend tens of millions a year to advise us, the Veterinary Institute. If we are to sit and try out which medicines are to be available in Norwegian pharmacies, which medicines are to be allowed to be used and not used in agriculture, then we have to rely on those who have the professional and scientific competence. If it is done in the full sense of emotion – as some people may think today – I find it strange, at least when you become selective. If you say that in general, there's one thing. But in the letter of 26 April that we received from the Veterinary Institute, there are three coccidiostats that are also antibiotics, which are allowed. My question to the Council of State is: would it make sense, as the Veterinary Institute says, to also prohibit these substances if one introduces a general ban on antibiotics in feed, or does the Council of State think it is ok that we are using 5 tonnes of this subsidy in the feed that Norwegian chickens in this country eat?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1530	Several types of feed antibiotics have been used in Norway. These have been banned in turn and in order. Today, there is still one, and this is randomly produced in Norway. So in relation to who manages folk hail, is it the veterinarians, or is it the other? The World Health Organisation says that one should not use the type of antibiotics in the feed additive that are also used in the human health service. There is also some justification in relation to the assessment of zinc bacitracin, which is used to a limited extent in human medicine, but which is still used. The Veterinary Institute also has its assessments of how this can be developed. If we go to coccidiostats, the question is whether this is also used in human medicine, given whether cross-resistance can be developed. That is the question in the matter we are talking about today, and I have asked that we should have that review. This is not a double standard on the part of the Minister of Agriculture or the Government in relation to Norwegian agriculture. I have said that we want a critical review of the other coccidiostats used, to see if this can have adverse effects on people's health as well. I feel reasonably secure about my argument in relation to what is intention, and there have been no hidden intentions in this regard in relation to commercial interests such as such. Maybe someone else should also think through their argument in relation to that claim. I'm aware that this is the Stortinge that rules. But that this should be a matter of indifference, that in some way there can't be any question mark about this, I have difficulty understanding. I hope that the spotlight on this will be strong in the future, too, because one of the greatest challenges we have with regard to public health in the future is the way antibiotics are to be used for drug treatment, without any adverse antibiotic resistance arising in advance. If it does, people's health is really in danger in the future. Here is a measure that I thought it would be reasonably easy to understand in Stortingen, but that was not the case. And of course I take note of that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1541	The Minister of Agriculture now says from the Chair that he will carry out a critical review of the so-called coccidiostats. He does so reluctantly after Stortinget has pointed out the extensive use of these antibiotics in Norwegian chicken production. We get our ears full every day about how dangerous it is to import chicken, among other things. from the EU or other countries. However, it must be much more dangerous to eat Norwegian chicken, as long as each Norwegian chicken is likely to contain substances from coccidiostats. My question, then, is: why is it that coccidiostats are not included in the original list of bans that the Council of State sent out at the hearing? As far as I know, only zinc bacitracin has been exempted from the feed regulations since 1988. Could this be because the EU has placed zinc bacitracin on its ban list? Is that why the Government will now ban this substance? Is it because the Government chooses to make this an EU matter, while we others might look at this substance based on how the substance works, how the substance works? It's been in production for 40 years. Only positive effects, no resistance consequences, have been demonstrated, according to scientific studies. So I have to say that there might be some here that should dampen something in their statements. The head of the Industry Committee, Morten Lund, says: "Sometimes consideration of the workplaces has to give up. I would like to ask: what is it that the consideration of workplaces has to give way beyond the ban of a substance that we have not been able to detect any negative consequences of? Aarrestad says we haven't asked them as it's most important to ask. Who is it that Unn Aarrestad has asked whether this substance should continue to be produced by the Norwegian company Alpharma, a product which is among our main export products and which is also concerned with workplaces? And jobs are important, whether they're in chicken production or in industrial production.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1552	I think this discussion about the hazard of the substance, or possibly using other additives, carries a little wrong place. I have understood that warnings against eating dangerous EU chickens are mainly about salmonella, which is something quite different. I have not understood that someone has thought that – at least not initially – it has been dangerous to eat meat from animals that have received such an additive that we are treating today. The problem is resistance and cross-resistance, because this is an antibiotic, and that's what's dangerous in this case. When the medicine doesn't work anymore, whether it's on the animal crew or on someone we're happy with, we understand what it means that we've been restrictive and sometimes we've been too strict. Because it's important. The moment we need antibiotics when someone's sick, we know how important this has been. And that's what some of us put over some other things. So some people might call it feelings, well, but in a lot of areas here we have to be very restrictive. That's what this is about, and not whether it's dangerous to eat a chicken that's eaten coccidiostats. So someone says that if this is symbol politics, we should have made it clear, then it's a matter of principle. This is a matter of cross-resistance and resistance to dangerous bacteria. One concerns the quality stamp of Norwegian agriculture, if we are able to keep the use of these substances down in Norwegian agriculture when we allow them for other reasons. The second is whether we can be strong enough in our argument towards other countries in international contexts when we want to bring down the use of these substances. Because I don't think it's like someone here thinks that the control system in this area is good enough around the world, and Norway has a role to play in promoting environmentally friendly food production around the world. Then it's not certain that all of the scientific evidence is winning. We might want it to be like that, but it's not like that. This is also about symbol policy, that one is able to choose a path and be so clear and clear that it is not possible to misunderstand. This is what we experience in the field by area of international policy. If you go through the regulations we have in Norway in different areas, you can find some small holes, which we might think are a little problematic, and in themselves they are, too, but they may be the small one that overturns the big load that makes it possible to put in place important international agreements in these areas. That's what I think the majority is taking too little inwards.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1563	Now the Minister of Agriculture has been twice in this chair in this matter and underlines the seriousness of his view of this for the public. If this is so serious, the Minister of Agriculture should draw a different conclusion from that of him. When the Minister of Agriculture chooses to bow to his plurality, I take it as a sign that it is not as serious as he tries to express. In contrast, the Minister of Agriculture here and now should draw a different conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1568	The Minister of Agriculture has presented the assessment which has been carried out in the course of the government's proceedings, which I have presented to the Business Committee through consultation in the Committee and by letter to the Committee. That the Council of State is expressing what his assessments have been in this context, I think a Council of State must be allowed to do. At the same time, the Council of State has said that he takes note of the decision taken by the Stortinget. Otherwise, I have to add that in the letter sent to the nutrition committee on this matter, it was stated that the Ministry of Agriculture has asked the Veterinary Institute to report on other antibacterial additives, coccidiostats, by the end of 1999. So it's done by the Department and the Council of State. The report was sent to the Ministry on 4 November 1999. The Committee is briefed on this. In the light of this report, the Ministry has concluded that some information on these more unknown factors should be provided before any decision is taken as to whether these substances should be prohibited. The ionic substances should be considered as a separate group in antibacterial substances. Any proposal for a ban should be sent on a broad basis to interested parties. In the consultation round carried out in the context of proposals for a ban on antibiotics in feed, the Fagsenter für poultry and Prior, Norse Eggsentraler, emphasises a strong need for a long transitional period if a ban is put in place. In order to clarify the issue of coccidiostats, I have informed the Committee on Progress and the date at which the Ministry took its initiative in relation to the case in hand and the conclusion drawn in relation to the technical report from which I have referred. The Ministry will, of course, consider whether there are other things in relation to coccidiostats that should be considered, but one must also consider this against the decision that Stortinget is likely to make here today. I believe that we have provided the Committee and Stortinget with an overview of the work that has been done, both in relation to zinc bacitracin and coccidiostats in this matter. I also admit to having problems with some names and expressions when I am in this type of debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1581	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1065]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1595	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 35 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 5 minutes, Progress Party 5 minutes, Right 5 minutes, Christian People's Party, Center Party and Left together 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Representative Steinar Bastesen 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1604	\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t In its presentation of this proposal on subsidies for fishing, the Committee notes that 79 farms will have problems complying with EU health, hygiene and quality rules. However, the others –ca. 686 out of 775 fishing industries — not having significant problems in this way. In addition to Annex 1 to the EEA Agreement of 1994, Norway took over the other provisions on trade in animals and animal products, including fish, in the veterinary agreement of 1 January 1999 so that we are currently fully harmonised with the EU in this area. This has a positive impact on our fish exports to the EU. Because EU legislation is based on international standards, the benefit of meeting these requirements is also, in reality, an entry ticket to other markets in the world. The Committee notes that most installations that do not comply with EEA standard legislation are small enterprises with old building masses. The Committee also agrees that not all 79 companies that need to be upgraded will have the financial capacity to invest in new installations. However, it shall be added that several of these holdings are located in places with more than one fishing holding, so that any closure would not pose any reserve problems for fishermen. There may also be grounds for recalling that the economic situation of the fishing industry today is significantly better than in the long term, with increased earnings and equity that has increased in recent years. In addition, upgrading fishing practices can be assessed within the framework of the public instrument we have today. It shall also mention that the Committee requests the Ministry of the Revised National Budget to provide an overview of the active fishing communities and a plan of how the Ministry considers them to be ensured a functional reception facility. However, there is an overall committee behind the recommendation not to endorse the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1621	This is a matter that there is a great commitment to locally along the coast. It is by no means of small importance for a small reception facility to continue, and the exposure is then. I am pleased with the result of the proposal we have been considering. Although the Bastesen proposal is not accepted, we will receive a report back from the Minister of Fisheries on what needs to be done to ensure that all active fishing communities are provided with a functional reception facility. That is what we want. We want the SND to focus on the fact that the ringing effects of the closure of a fish farm are different in different places in the country. Where they only have one fish farm left, the ringing effects are far more dramatic than where they have more. And the Committee – as I read the setting at least – therefore believes that the Government must contribute to the SND's particular emphasis on the situation in each location. The store wants to come back to this matter. The EU directive is about quality requirements for goods delivered. One can then ask questions as to whether bad goods are being delivered today, when the Directorate of Fisheries has come to the conclusion that it is necessary to invest NOK 2-3 billion in order for all installations to be good enough. Even if it's invested $2 billion, and someone's left, it's still not good enough, because probably 80 uses have to disappear if you don't have the ability to invest even more. The Government Parties to the Committee have pointed out that a desire for the Ministry to examine whether derogations from some of the rules for the smallest fish farms based on local domestic markets may be granted. At such facilities, it is possible to keep the quality at the top, good enough in relation to the health requirements, unless capital is invested, because there is a better overview than elsewhere because of a different mode of turnover. In the context of a meeting in Brussels, including: The President of the ESA was present and the possibilities for granting such exemptions were raised. He then found out the detailed rules which show that the Council Directive referred to here is a chapter. Article 2.15 refers to what can be used in this case in Norway, which provides a basis for large quantities of cheese to be sold in France on the French village squares, cheese which is not made at all in EU-approved dairies, but which can still be traded. They're good enough on the basis of French national rules. This placing on the market of cheese is not a problem for French cheese sport. It is also not a problem for those who eat the village cheeses, it turns out – on the contrary. People who come to France, and those who live there, like this kind of turnover. There was recently a television program on the production of butter in a mountain farm in Norway, where they had the opportunity to sell butter directly from the farm. But if they brought the butter to the village, they would have understood the rules so that it would only have to be sold to the dairies and then marketed as animal feed. But in this programme, one from the Ministry of Agriculture stood up and said that if they had just applied, they would have been allowed to sell the butter through local sales. From this point of view, Norway may seem to be more stringent than anyone else in complying with the rules, even if it would be at the expense of what we want to do from business. I hope that in this case we can see examples that we have the ability to be flexible, that we are trying to adapt the rules as other countries adapt the rules, and so that we do not need to have a cessation of fishing activity beyond what is absolutely necessary. I would like to stress that the health requirements of the products must be the same even if the products are placed on the market locally. But I believe that it is possible to get good quality even if a person has only one truck on a fishing farm and not two or three, as the rules actually require.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1640	Last time, when I made proposals on funds for upgrading fishing, I promoted it as a proposal to set up a fund. Of course, it was downhearted. But I see that the committee and the department have agreed to add the fund consultations to this position. But I remember what was said in that debate – the very same use of words, the need to find funds within the usual system – the SND system. Well, I thought of myself, that's all right. But the established system has too little money, that's what's the problem. There is not enough money to upgrade these fish farms. Therefore, in my simplicity, I thought that I should promote this proposal, so that there could be money at my disposal. I guess it's true in the setting, that it's about. DKK 2.5 billion to upgrade all fish farms. It's a very good chance money. I agree with that. Just in these days, there is talk in words and phrases about a new boost for the fishing industry; the fishing industry will take over after the oil adventure when it is finished, a national plan has to do. Well, we could start here with the national plan. Here, restrictions and regulations are trodden down the heads of people in the districts, people who have small fishing farms, local fishing, ‘based on seasonal fishing’ – as it says in the setting. Yes, in Lofoten there are a number of fish farms based on seasonal lovot fishing. They are also part of those on this death list. So the ministry says that the upgrade of these fish farms will require the supply of more raw material, and that means capacity increase. No, that's not the case. This is not about capacity-enhancement, but about upgrading fishing practices according to the legislation that we have stepped down our heads by the EU. But it's clear that if you're going to have the fish on land to cover the costs, it's going to increase capacity. But no one has asked for these rules. And it's clear that when there's a law that's so square that it's the same law that applies to 100 employees that when there's really only 25 employees, or under it, on a small fish farm that's conventional and essentially based its production on hanging and salting and fresh fish shipments, it's wrong. That legislation does not apply to Norway, and then the possibilities under the ESA legislation must be used and exempted. The head of the committee was up here talking about making exceptions for domestic market uses. Yeah, that's right. It is precisely the responsibility of the freshwater fish regulations. The fresh fish regulations refer to the specific production of fish for export. Morten Lund knows very well what happened in his own municipality, where a fishing farm was about to be closed, precisely from an interpretation of the legislation that was completely out of control and home in relation to what was real. It was a small crab business. By using the legislation as it is to be used, the company allowed itself to be rocked. It happened in the summer. When it is said that all active fishing communities are going to have their own fishing farms, do I have a simple question: is the Ingøy community in Finnmark an active fishing community? They have been refused their investment plan to upgrade the fishing industry there. There's a central place in the middle of the heart of where the cod is wandering into the coast. They've already put yarn in the eggs there, people are fishing, and they're messing with theirs. If used, they have to go to Havøysund, of course – as long as they can accept – or they have to go to Hammerfest. It is that the small-boat fleet should be able to deliver without running for hours in order to reach a fishing farm somewhere. That is what this is all about, and it does not take enough account of the current policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1655	In order to take it from the beginning: in recent years, there has been an adaptation to the international hygiene legislation, and parallel extensive upgrading of the Norwegian fishing industry. This has been a key prerequisite for Norwegian fishing industries’ ability to produce as safe a food as possible and to sell fish on the international market. This process contributes to the realisation of growth potential by increasing value creation and job security in the industry as a whole. The Fisheries Directorate's report on the state of the upgrade of the fishing industry is the basis of Document No. The eight proposals now under consideration. This report concludes that by far the majority of fish industry holdings will not have any significant problems in meeting hygiene requirements. This report has been prepared on the recommendation of the Ministry of Fisheries that we should get a full overview of the situation before taking policy action. As mentioned above, the report shows that around 80 enterprises are in such poor condition that building new plants would be more profitable than investing in upgrading the old ones. Several of these facilities have been located at sites with more than one fishing farm, so that any closure would not cause a reserve problem for local fishermen. But it is the owners of the plants who have to make a decision on what to do, whether to build new facilities or, after all, whether to complete the upgrade of the old ones. In the committee setting, the minority requests that the Ministry assess exemptions from standard hygiene requirements for production for local, domestic markets. I fear, however, that a discussion about a less stringent legislation on domestic sales than for the export of fish could lead to negative reactions from Norwegian consumers. It would be easy to claim that we export the best fish, while Norwegian consumers are offered less safe, poorer quality seafood. And the Norwegian market is also important. Based on international legislation in this area, such an approach is also not relevant, and will hardly be within the agreement we have with the EU to adapt to this legislation. Now it is not the case that the legislation is too much and too small for use. There are significantly smaller requirements for the facilities associated with a smaller fish reception than for a production plant engaged in further processing – filleted or further than that. Yesterday I discussed the follow-up to the Fisheries Directorate's report in a meeting with the SND and the Fisheries Directorate. A key question was the prerequisites for all active fishing communities to maintain at least one fish reception facility. We are now following up the committee position, and will come back to this in the revised national budget. The continued operation of fishing activities requires active owners and local involvement. It is necessary that owners commit themselves financially in order to assess State financial instruments through the SND. Municipalities must contribute by facilitating conditions through basic investments, and county municipalities should show the necessary commitment to building up the site, for example through so-called regional development programmes. In this way, the foundation for the future operation of reception is strengthened with regard to the desired nutrient structure in the county. There will always be limited resources available to SND and there will be different rules geographically in relation to what the aid may be. However, on the part of the Ministry of Fisheries, we are committed to working with the Ministry of Local Affairs to provide the necessary guidelines to the SND for the use of investment funds, in order to give priority to this with the upgrading of the fishing industry, especially in so-called unilateral fisheries communities where only one reception facility is available. I think we'll get to sea with that. The report from the Directorate of Fisheries may have been dramatized a little beyond what is necessary. It is not that 2.5 billion kroner in investments are a disaster for the Norwegian fishing industry. An industry that has DKK 35 billion in annual turnover and so it has to be able to withstand DKK 2.5 billion in investment over a few years. It is no more than likely to be the normal annual level of investment in such an industry.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1676	I agree with what the Minister for Fisheries said on this matter. This has its background in a lack of publication of a list of establishments which do not comply with the hygiene requirements to be met in line with the EEA Agreement. Otherwise, I think that list could have been published – it had not hurt at all. So to the matter. I think this is a proposal that is not feasible at all. It will create injustice. This will create different conditions for the enterprises that have already taken into account in implementing the requirements set in order to have access to the market to be enjoyed in line with the agreements concluded. Like the Council of State Angelsen, I don't think you should think of the fact that this industry is facing an investment need of DKK 2.5 billion, as something extraordinary, and something that would require extraordinary state intervention. This is a growth industry that will certainly need far greater investment in the future than the above economic sizes. I think we might find a little paradox in relation to the previous case we're dealing with by looking at the minority comments from the middle parties. There are less hygienic requirements for products from so-called small plants than can be measured in the previous case. I do not think this has been done at all. And how you are able, like the government parties in the committee comments, to distinguish between installations that only have a local market and installations that in some situation are likely to be able to export and that will export – it is almost an adventure for me. The conclusion is given itself in many ways. This is an industry that exports more than 90 pst. of the total production, and at least we must not be so careful that the companies that have already taken into account the requirements of the market and those who plan to do so come into a situation where they will not be able to meet the requirements of the market.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1693	The Committee emphasises the importance of full harmonisation in most cases. The fact that things are fully harmonised doesn't mean that things are necessarily harmonious. I have to say that if you have a code that treats industrial production and crafts on the same scale, things become a little wrong in real life. I agree with the representative, Lund, and I want to go further: if you take the cheese from the French, I think that the uprisings we've seen from both the fish and the agricultural sector become petty against what you'll see. Here it's about a culture that has evolved, which is a craftsmanship tradition. I'm not just concerned about, as you're talking about, the size of the production units. What the rules should be really has a lot to do with the product spectrum. It is clear that a product range such as the production of dry fish is quite different from the industrial production of products to be placed in the refrigerators in Europe. And it's clear that if it gets like this -- or maybe it's already been -- they have to carry the fish in hermetic containers up on the mountains, then the fish hangs in the weather, with flies and everything that's there, and then a pack it into hermetic containers again when you're going to take it down, then the reality is that it's hard to recognize and see the sense of it. What's a little important, I think, is to look at the possibilities contained in the exceptions. It does not necessarily relate to the size of the production site, but to the product range. That's where you have to try to see if there's any possibility of being a little more flexible than that sometimes might seem like, when you're going to follow up the directives. It is also a little positive that the Committee gives a signal on a reception facility in all fishing communities. I hope that such signals are perceived by those who will somehow control the funds, that there will not just be words in an attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1704	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1065]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1718	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1065]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1732	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1066]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1746	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 35 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 5 minutes, Progress Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party, Center Party and Left together 10 minutes, Right 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, and Representative Bastesen 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1755	In the hope that others will follow my example, I will try to be brief. The background is that the proposers believe that Norwegian companies use large resources to respond to public requests and how to deal with different laws and regulations. Therefore, they propose eight points of action. I think some of the background was a right-wing election campaign game and a right-wing attempt to give the impression of having many more answers to this question than the rest of us. We all agreed on the issue. Of course, the majority of the Committee supports the intention of the proposal to reduce the form field but cannot see that the submission contains anything new. In most areas mentioned by the Right in these points, there is quite a lot of activity, and the Committee has just visited Brønnøysund, just without the representative Gabrielsen, and has seen that there is a lot of important coordination and simplification work going on there, and that there is even more going on. The decision provides for the matter to be annexed to the minutes. We think that most of the points in the presented do not represent so much new, but there are two points that we reject, in line with what the Council of State recommends. One is that proposals for a new form or form should be followed by proposals to remove another. It becomes a little bit too absolute to have such a rule, and sometimes it can have unfortunate effects. And even with the modification of the Inner Inner. S. No 47 in relation to Document. No The 8-proposal from the Right suggests that there is an unnecessary proposal. All forms must be evaluated at regular intervals, depending on the type of form for simplification. This is absolutely crucial to speed up the simplification process and to reduce the form field. And this is a more practical and less technical solution than the Right suggests. The second thing we are sceptical about and reject is the proposal to set two annual dates for tax regulatory and regulatory changes. An arrangement with two annual notice dates will largely result in a deliberate postponement of the formal definition of cleared draft regulations, usually with effect also when they are due to be in force. It will only be possible to perpetuate ongoing script work to complete the first half-yearly. Such an arrangement may provide a basis for unfortunate adaptations and may imply that a number of regulations will be applied unnecessarily late. It is an important objective to improve legislation by closing out unnecessary regulations and coordinating the legislation by merging into larger codes of aggregation. This means that users get a more transparent and accessible code to stick to. Therefore, the majority does not recommend separate dates for the publication and application of regulations in the field of taxation. So we say no to this. To sum up: it's little new, it's little thoughtful, and it has more negative effects than positive ones. It is interesting to note that the NHO is in favour of the intention of the proposal, but that they do not even take time to comment on the individual points. But, as I said, everyone is in agreement, and we want the Council of State to close down further in the work of reducing the form field, to the joy of small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1774	The public paper flood costs Norwegian business in the order of several thousand million kroner on an annual basis. At the same time, forms and bureaucracy are perceived as a problem by many traders. In small and medium-sized enterprises in particular, innovation can be hampered by the fact that much time and energy are involved in completing public forms. Most businesses think the pile of papers is overwhelming. Any expense or charge means a new form. In addition, the management of statistics. We have statistical legislation that empowers the authorities to collect all the information. In particular, the forms of the Statistical Central Office are often comprehensive and labour-intensive. Many of the traders do not use the finest glossaries when the Agency's many questions end up on their desks. Then it is linked to fines and even prison sentences if they are not answered on the forms – at least there is a threat. It is said that some of the least motivated fill in the cabin and weather, and the answers thus become worthless. The significant costs I mentioned indicate that the savings potential by simplifying and reducing the form field is significant. Of course, some simplification work has been done. At the same time, there is a particular impression that the scale is increasing, as confirmed by industry’s own organisations. There is also reason to fear tangible growth in the future, especially in the context of the ever-increasing demand for more detailed business information from the EU. Otherwise, it is important to stress that any form that is required by public authorities to be answered and completed is, of course, not useless. In many contexts, the authorities need proper documentation and evidence for their work, just as we politicians need it for the assessments on which we should base decisions. On the other hand, it is no wonder that many people react when it is stated that a large number of people around the municipalities are busy working all day to get answers to forms from, among other things. The Central Statistical Office or the Directorate for Taxation. This reinforces the impression that what is rightly called the form field is brought into a pure parody. Stiff rules on voluntary overtime, temporary employment and limitations in the opening time law are clear evidence of a strong regulatory activity of the authorities, which inhibits the activities of the companies. Finally, I can inform you that in most cases more than 1 kg of forms and documentation are required for the construction of a business building according to the Planning and Building Act. There's a lot of paper! Then I will address the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party that is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1789	Terje Knudsen has mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1792	Document No. presented the 8th proposal in eight points from, inter alia: I, the undersigned who we are dealing with today, intend to provide the work already under way in many of these areas. What lies in what the Government has started, and to a large extent referred to in the letter from the Council of State, is on many points very good. However, I think that things take time, and what is at one of the points in the letter from the Council of State, that it will take a year just to figure out and chart the regulations that you have, suggests that at least there is a need to do something. The representative Knudsen was in on this with form fields. It's probably some of what it actually turns out to be the hardest thing to attack, but everyone's talking about it. It's about what happened, everyone's talking about it, but nobody's doing anything. I think it's very important that the Council of State sends crystal clear signals into the office about these things. I'm not going to spend too much time on too many details here and now, but I just want to say that I'm actually joining the state council that writes about what's going on – if that happens. But now he has spent two years on one of the issues that industry itself has identified as one of the main problems, namely the costs of collecting information. I look forward so far with impatience to what had to come next year's state budget, when the Council of State writes that he will take up these things. I think it would have been natural for us in the annual government budgets to have had an overview of developments in this area, because we get a lot of cross-cutting information that is not always entirely related, both from public agencies and business organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1801	Based on the position we are currently considering, and the comments on the budget that we have addressed before today, I am pleased to note that there is an overall committee that is engaged in reducing the form field. A large majority of the Committee is pleased with the work of the Government in this area, and it is an overall committee that has placed the coordination responsibility for a simpler legislative and regulatory framework in one department. The Committee, in its budgetary position, shall state the following: ‘The Committee considers that the Ministry of Economic Affairs must coordinate and ensure that all departments and agencies contribute to ‘simpleness’ becoming a priority for Norwegian business.’ It's not easy to get to this simplification. There are several state councils, several governments that have tried. But the impatience expressed by the document proposal from the Right, through the seminar that we were at with the NHO, and from the individual company, I believe that I need to be seen as positive in order to make progress in that work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1819	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Footage, see page 1067]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1828	It shall be put to the vote in cases No. 1-8.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1835	A total of 14 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3 and proposal No. 14, by Ansgar Gabrielsen on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 5-13, by Mr Hedstrom on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats 4, from Øystein Hedstrom on behalf of the Party of Progress and the Right There are only minor proposals outside the framework areas, and we start with the proposals from the Right. Proposal No. 14, from the right, says: ‘1. The system for fixing milk production quotas is changed from administrative fixing to market-based fixing. 2nd@item: inlistbox In the case of the sale of the allowance, the price of all litres is paid irrespective of the size of the allowance. The current allowance withdrawal scheme of more than 200000 litres from the producer wishing to end milk production is closed.3. The ceiling for maximum production of 130000 litres after purchase of the quota is removed.4. The system of primary turnover of production quotas at regional level shall be reintroduced.’;» The President has understood that the Progress Party will also vote in favour of this proposal – it is confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1875	The proposals are then put to the vote. 5–13, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the sale of state holdings in Norsk Hydro ASA.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the sale of State holdings in AS Olivin.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the sale of State holdings in Raufoss ASA.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the sale of state holdings in the Kongsberg Group ASA’.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a reorganization of standardisation activities with a view to establishing a fully integrated standardisation organisation, in which the overall responsibility for all standardisation work is added to the Ministry of Industry and Trade.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to increase the level of support in the reimbursement scheme for seafarers to 20 pst. of gross wage and salary costs and include Norwegian international ferry companies, bow loaders for the transport of crude oil and training positions in NIS in the scheme.» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the winding-up of the State Regional Development Fund.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose the repeal of the Act on Turnover.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals for the removal of existing provisions relating to the compulsory residence and operation’.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1932	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to facilitate the sale of parts of SF’s productive coniferous forest assets.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e1946	Now, we're going to vote over the framework areas. The President first takes note of the proposals. 1, 2 and 3, from the Right, relating to Framework Areas 9,10 and 11. The President assumes that we can vote collectively on these proposals – it is confirmed. Proposal from the Right to the Framework Area 9, proposal No. 1, sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e5887	The proposal for a decision on Framework Areas 9, 10 and 11 shall then be put to the vote. Before we vote, the President will make two corrections to the proposal for a decision: Under field 11, cap. 5614 on page 76 of the statement, the heading of the chapter shall be amended to ‘Rates of loans for agricultural purposes’. In the same frame area, point 11, on page 77, X shall be amended so that the last part of the sentence below the Roman numeral is deleted. These are the words ‘and the remarks in the budget entry. S. No 8 [[1999 - 2000]] Then we're ready to vote over the framework areas. The President assumes that we can vote collectively over these.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e9855	The President will assume that the Advance Party and the Right will vote against – it will be confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e10347	During the debate, Leif Helge Kongshaug put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:72 [[1998 - 1999]] The Committee had ceased: The Storting asks the Government to allow the continued use of the feed supplement Sink Bacitracin in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e10521	Here the Progress Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e10678	The Advance Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e10871	During the debate, Mr Knudsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to take action and to draw up proposals in line with the comments of the Progress Party and the Right of the Innst. [[1999 - 2000]] S. No 47 We vote first on the proposal and then on the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-08.ana.ud1530e10902	There is no record.
