ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e44	Representatives of Anneliese Dørum, No quail bay, Gunnar Kvassheim, Arne Lyngstad and Gunnar Skaug, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Hedmark County: Ida Marie Løvlien and Helge Bjørnsen. For the county of Nordland: Oddbjørn Hanssen. For Oslo: Anders Hornslien. For the Rogaland County: Helga Rollestad. For Vestfold County: Hans-Martin Jørgensen. The representative of Tomas Norvoll is informed that he is withdrawing the granted permit application for the period from 12 April to 15 April. – This message is taken into account. From the requested alternate of the Telemark County, Thorleif Vikre, there is an application to be exempted from meeting from 12 April to 14 April under the leave of Mr John I. Alvheim from 12 April to 15 April, for reasons of well-being. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Other alternates of the Telemark County, Nils-Olav Skills, are proposed to meet during the leave period. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Two permit applications are available: from the Central Party Group on the Permit of the Representative John Dale from 12 April to 14 April to take part in the Conference of the Nordic Council in Vilnius, Lithuania, from the Labour Party Group on the Permit of the Representative Reidun Gravdahl from 12 April to 15 April to take part in the 101. Interparliamentary Conference in Brussels These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate for the Hordaland County, Bjørg Hope Galtung, is currently abroad and for that reason prevented from meeting in the Stortinget. The representatives of goods, for Hordaland County Magnar Lussand and for Uppland County Kjell Ivar Fossnes, are proposed to meet during the period of leave. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Magnar Lussand, Kjell Ivar Fossnes and Hans-Martin Jørgensen are proposed to the House for the time they meet for representatives John Dale, Reidun Gravdahl and Ole Johs. Brunese. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Magnar Lussand and Nils-Olav Skills are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e146	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e151	I propose Aud Blattmann and Asmund Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e156	Aud Blattmann and Asmund Kristoffersen are proposed as chairmen. – Other proposals are not available, and Aud Blattmann and Asmund Kristoffersen are unanimously elected presidents for this week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e173	I'm going to try to deal with the fundamental importance of this case, and refrain from commenting on the speculations that have been about acquaintances and a number of decisions and letters related to it. But I have to allow myself to say that I find it uncomfortable to be called by certain people in a particular area, where there are threats of reaction if you don't do what some people want. However, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has dealt with this issue on a principle basis, and the principle relates in particular to two aspects: first, the use of the discretion of the Council of State under Section 8 of the Foreign Affairs Act. It is quite obvious that when the Stortinger dealt with the Foreign Affairs Act, the Stortinget was open that it is not possible, either in law or in regulations of the law, to cover all matters. Paragraph 8 of the Act therefore provided an opening so that the Council of State could exercise a discretion if the foreigner was in such a situation that the foreigner was in special or special difficulties. It was never the intention of the legislator that the administration should have the opportunity to use this discretion to take into account Norwegian employers. It was the concern of the stranger that it was crucial. It is therefore – and it has been written in its position – a prerequisite for a further use of the administration's discretion under the second paragraph of Section 8 of the Act that «strong human interests» should relate to the situation of the foreigner. It would be totally wrong if the administration were to open up a practice where this safety valve was to be used for the benefit of Norwegian employers who wanted to work in their situation. The Minister of Justice wrote to the committee that the Minister of Justice was in doubt. As we have understood, the recommendation from the administration has been that doubt was such that it was not permitted to exercise judgement in this way. I have gone through the preliminary work of the law, I have gone through the treatment of the Foreign Affairs Act by the Storting – where I myself was a relatively active participant – and I have also tried to go through Eli Fiskens' commentary version of the Foreign Affairs Act. I have not found any point in the fact that the administration and the Council of State have the opportunity to use the second paragraph of Section 8 of the Act in such a way as has been done. And we have found reason to stress very strongly that this does not have to evolve into future practice. So I'm going to go into the second main point. It concerns that if political Norway wishes to change the practice of a work permit and residence permit in Norway, this should be provided for in a regulation. In this way, the administration and those responsible for dealing with the legislation will have a proper position to deal with the application for a work permit and residence permit. We have applied for this to be made clear in writing between the Committee and the Minister of Justice, and in many ways it could have actually ended up the Minister of Justice having taken note of the Committee's position on what should be the basis of the regulations. Instead, it evolved into a kind of fundamental discussion about the government's authority to give regulations. The Committee has not disputed at any point the right of the Government to give a regulation on the condition that there is a basis of law or regulation in order to give such a regulation. What we strongly dispute, however, is that, through a regulatory change, the Government should have the opportunity to establish a new policy practice without the Stortinge having discussed the political principles surrounding it. And that's what this is about, because the Storting through a separate treatment of a Document No. 8 proposals have quite categorically stated that there should not be an opportunity to grant a work permit and a residence permit for work at home. If you wanted to change that practice, you had to invite the Stortinget to make a basic decision that clearly stated that work in the home is one thing, while the babysitting is another thing. This should have been done by the Government, and then, after having been given such a fundamental clarification in the Stortinget, have produced the regulatory changes that they themselves thought were necessary for the new practice. This is a constitutionally very important issue, and there have been several times in this Chamber whether the Government or the administration is able to, through the law on powers, establish regulations that are actually contrary to the intentions of the legislator. We therefore find reason to stress explicitly that the Government has to deal with the legislator's intentions when it comes to clarifying laws through regulations. Otherwise, the legislator's power will be transferred from this hall to government and to administration, and I assume that it has not been anyone's intention. The Committee has not taken a position in principle as to whether the regulation should be amended in such a way that it should be possible, under certain conditions, to grant a work and residence permit for babysitting, but we believe that it is this room that has to decide on the principle in this matter, because this room has previously said that it should not be. These are the two principal objections raised by the Control and Constitutional Committee in this matter. I see from the documents from the Ministry of Justice that the work and residence permit in question has been granted for one year, with the possibility of extension. I have the principle that the parties should not be charged because the Ministry of Justice has made a mistake, as I see it. My view is that if the same conditions are in place today as when the Ministry of Justice has failed to grant a residence permit, an extension should be granted in the event of an application for an extension. However, there should be a single case and no new permits should be granted until the Ministry of Justice has provided for the appropriate remedies to enable it to do so. When I have this principle attitude, it's because I don't think the parties like this are going to be punished for a discussion that's going on between the Storting and the Government. With this, I would recommend that the matter be annexed to the Minutes, but would stress very strongly the comments made by the Committee of Inquiry and the Constitutional Committee, and would ask that they be followed, and that the Storting should be open to a fundamental discussion on the issue of work and residence permits for certain categories.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e194	This is a special case that has many sides. As the committee leader pointed out, we in the Progress Party also agree that the two child wigs in question are here, which have received a work and residence permit on a wrong basis – we have had a Minister of Justice who has not complied with the law and Norwegian legislation – not to be harmed by it. However, unlike the committee leader, we do not believe that it is right, when a wrong decision has been made on a political level, that applications for renewal of the work permit and residence permit after the year has passed should be automatically granted for these two child wigs. So there we disagree with the Working Party, just so it's settled. Otherwise, it's a cross of thought that in Norway we don't have a code on such things that are equal to everyone. It must not be the case that acquaintances, large-scale political contacts or governments are to determine whether persons outside the EEA territory are granted a work or residence permit or one. What we have seen in this matter is quite unique. UDI, who has dealt with the matter twice as a professional body, has rejected it according to the legislation we have in this area, and the Ministry of Justice's own law department has not found a basis for granting work and residence permits to these two children's items. It is a cross-thinking that the political leadership of the Ministry of Justice, after having been brought back from their own legal department in the Ministry, informed that there is no basis for granting a residence permit, takes a political decision, despite what the Storting has said when discussing these fundamental issues, and grants employment and residence permits. But it may be a bit indicative of what has happened in this case – and when we see all the actors who have been active in it, I think it is good to know that for Stortinget’s part: here we have received input from the district rapporteur in East-Agder – even the county councilman in East-Agder has been involved in this discussion – where he writes letters to the state secretary and to the Minister of Justice with pure threats that if this work and residence permit is not granted, then it will mean ‘so great an impact on the extensive business activities of the Ugland Group in our country and our country that, as rapporteur, I hardly dare to think about what will happen if the anchor is rejected. I therefore ask – if the Ministry of Justice still finds it difficult to meet the appeal – that County of Hjalmar Inge Sunde and the undersigned have a meeting in the Ministry of Justice.’ It is largely the only written matter that has been in such an important case in principle as this, in addition to the many telephones and what has been done orally. It's not that we in the Progress Party are looking for these children's peaks, that we are looking for this shipowner, who is important for business in the South and elsewhere, but it is true that we have had a Minister of Justice – who has now been replaced for various reasons – who has not adhered to the law and the law that is. We have a duty on the Control and Constitutional Committee to ensure that the legislation in this area is followed. I am pleased that today we have received a majority position that indicates that these principles of employment and residence permits should be discussed, it is not enough that an assessor assesses changes to the regulations in this area, as the former Minister of Justice said, but the Stortinget and the appropriate committee must have the opportunity to discuss this on a broad basis. We are therefore satisfied with the setting that has been presented. We're pleased that a majority in the committee has put down their feet, because we can only imagine the consequences this would have had if it were what the former Council of State Aure said, namely that the decision taken in this matter had to lead to equal treatment in other similar cases. With what the committee leader has said, and with what is in the setting, we are therefore satisfied. I also want a confirmation from the new Minister of Justice that he will now stick to what a majority has said in this area, and that he – of course in an appropriate way, and if the Government so wishes – will come back to Stortinget with a fundamental position on these issues that we have discussed. I have also seen in the evening post regarding the position of the Trade Committee on recruiting labour, that the Government and the Minister of Justice have a different view than the majority in the Chamber. I hope we don't run polemics with the Government further in this matter, as I believe we did when the Council of State Aure had it for treatment. The committee came several times with an outstretched hand to sort this out in a way that wouldn't mean that we had to make our own position. In the end, I have to say that I do not think it is kindergarten we do when we discuss this issue. I think this is about respect for Norwegian citizens, for Norwegian business, for those who need skills. I am of the opinion that everyone must be treated equally here, which is a bad example from a government based on the Adult Declaration, which emphatically states that there should be a level playing field here for everyone, and that no one should be discriminated against. I therefore hope that the Minister of Justice can confirm that it will be done in the Ministry of Justice after this round we have now had in Stortinget on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e215	It is not often that the Control and Constitutional Committee deals with its own issues, but has done so in this case. Many may well suggest that the attention in the media has far-reachingly created this case, and perhaps the UDI's refusal of vis-à-vis the Council of State has also led to a special attention in this matter. Two Peruvian babysitters have been granted a temporary stay of up to one year, with access to renewal, for the care and care of children in a family where parents want to organise a two-cultural breeding environment for their children. That is what the matter is. This case, where former Minister of Justice Aud-Inger Aure has based a different judgement from that of the majority that it considers to be the basis for which, under the second paragraph of Section 8 of the Foreign Affairs Act concerning the authorisation of work and residence of citizens outside the EEA territory, the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has become a separate case. By letters of 11 and 24 November 1998, the Council of State Aure states that there has been no previous residence for this type of work and that there are grounds for doubt as to whether the second paragraph of Section 8 of the Foreign Affairs Act provides sufficient grounds for decisions taken by the Ministry in this case. State Council Aure draws attention to the practice of the exercise of judgement, according to practice, there are certain main considerations that are particularly relevant in such an assessment, such as: protection-related conditions, health conditions, consideration of minors, the applicant’s relationship with Norway and, where appropriate, other cases. In its letter to the Committee, the Council of State Aure acknowledges that ‘stronger human considerations’, like the criterion of ‘special connection with the kingdom’, have contributed to the exercise of discretion on the basis of the need for children to live in a two-cultural environment in the best possible way, because in this case we are talking about a mother from Peru and a father from Norway. If children are to meet their need for two-cultural growth, it is difficult to imagine that this could happen without adult contact with Peruvian background in addition to the mother of the children. Norwegian babysitting is not qualified in this context. As regards questions about future consequences, the Council of State writes: «The second paragraph of Section 5 of the Foreign Affairs Act empowers the King to provide detailed rules in the framework of the guidelines laid down by the Stortinget in accordance with the Foreign Affairs Act. Within this framework, it is up to the government to decide which groups you want to prioritise. As a result of these permits, the Ministry has set up a work aimed at obtaining a new work permit basis for a specific group of workers – children’s picnics. The legal status should be clarified in the form of regulations. to contribute to the provision of intercultural and bilingual education to children of bilingual families.’;» In addition, the Council of State provides: ‘In view of the possible doubts regarding the legal basis — and the opinions expressed in the letter from the Control and Constitutional Committee — I am prepared to put any new issues at risk until the work on the new regulation has been completed. It may be stated that at present there are no similar cases for the treatment of the department.’ So, based on the clear signals given by the state councils here, this kind of thing will be done to create the best possible breeding environment for bilingual children's families. Furthermore, there appears to be clear evidence that there are not many relevant applications for treatment in this field, as the Department states that ‘there are currently no similar cases for treatment’. The minority believes that situations where ‘stronger human considerations’, for example, may well be considered. may relate to the care of children, as in this case, and therefore disagree with the majority of interpretations of the discretionary framework, nor do they agree that there is a need to establish similarities between child care and other care and domestic work. This minority therefore disagrees with the majority reference to the treatment of Document No by the Storting. 8:78 for 1996-97, nor can it be seen that the Stortinget has previously had a clear view of what should be practice in terms of work and residence permits for children's picnics. This is the first time a work and residence permit is granted for children's picnics, given by judgement. In this respect, I am very pleased that the chairman of the Committee has now stated in the debate that this matter should not be a burden on the children's wigs in Peru. Finally, I will assume that the Government will submit to the Stortinget any proposals for changes, as former Minister of Justice Aure has suggested, and I expect that this will be confirmed by the Dørum Council later in the debate. I would also refer to the vote, where it is recommended that the matter be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e251	I refer you to the committee chairman's presentation of the Committee's consideration of the matter and the principle approach adopted by the Committee on the matter. The right is behind the principle approach and thus the justification for the criticism that arises. From the Right, the criticism must be seen as relevant to the proceedings alone, since the Right has been and is open to an embellishment of the law in this field, so that non-EEA workers can obtain work permits in Norway more easily. In this case, this must be linked to regulations and not to the judgment of the Ministry of Justice alone, regardless of the Storting’s position on the principle. In isolation, this is a relatively small case, and in itself it provides hardly any basis for becoming a matter of its own in Stortinget. Once it has been, however, it is because of the inconsistency of the Minister of Justice between – we shall call it – life and learning and the lack of willingness of the Council of State to realize early that she was here on would roads compared to the majority of the Grand Duchy. There is every reason for criticism of the way in which the Council of State has dealt with the second paragraph of Section 8 of the Foreign Affairs Act in relation to the work permit of these two children's peaks of a shipowner in the South. The majority have demonstrated that the Government did not have the authority to grant a residence and work permit for these two children's peaks. There can be no doubt that childcare and housework must be placed in the same category, and the bulk of the population reported in the context of the treatment of Document No. 8:78 for 1996-97 that housework is not a job qualifying for a work permit. The Ministry also acknowledges for a long time in a letter to the Committee that there are grounds for doubt as to whether the second paragraph of Section 8 of the Foreign Affairs Act provides sufficient grounds for the decision taken by the Ministry. It is also interesting to note that the UDI on its side has never been in doubt when they have twice rejected the application with the grounds for not having a permit. On the other hand, the opinion of the Right is similar to that of the Advocate General and the Chairman of the Committee Kosmo, namely that the parties should not suffer from the maltreatment done by the Ministry and that they should therefore be granted an extension of the residence permit, if desired. In the right we understand that the law clearly gives the government the opportunity to change the regulation in this area. But since the Storting has not opened up such an extension, it may not be possible for the Council of State to discriminate on its own and on an individual basis, as she has done in this matter. As an act and a recording, I record that the district rapporteur in East-Agder, representing the government parties, has addressed the political leadership of the department in writing – which I find extremely surprising – and argued that a refusal will have a major impact on the large-scale business activities of the Uganda group in East-Agder and in our country. Mr Åshild Anmarkrud, State Secretary, has been asked to write this to the county rapporteur in East-Agder. ‘that, as the rapporteur-general, I hardly dare to think about what will happen if the anchor is rejected’. It is clear that the district rapporteur in East-Agder does not take great chances in the thinking business. He writes on – and I find that even more suspicious: ‘I therefore ask — if the Ministry of Justice still finds it difficult to meet the appeal — that County of Hjalmar Inge Sunde and the undersigned have a meeting in the Ministry of Justice.’ I don't know if it's been such a meeting, but I find it very strange that the county rapporteur almost threatens to drag the county council in East Agder in these kinds of cases. I hope that such arguments and proceedings are not introduced in the Ministry of Justice under the direction of this government. The right, together with the majority in the criticism of the Ministry of Justice's practice of the Foreign Affairs Act, is in this specific case. However, it must be added immediately that the right would like the law to be amended to facilitate the granting of a temporary work permit to non-resident workers from outside the EEA territory. The right took this up, among other things. Int. S. No 238 for 1996-97, in which the Municipal Committee examined proposals by Mr Ellen Chr. Christiansen to amend the legislation so that temporary work permits could be granted to non-resident workers who wanted to work in private homes on a temporary basis. The members of the Right said in this paragraph that it should be assessed whether there is too strict a practice in granting temporary work permits to non-resident workers from outside the EEA territory. We still believe this. In retrospect, we note that the Government has not committed itself to such a change of rules, but that the Council of State, on the other hand, admits that they still grant a single case on a questionable basis. In other words, if the Government had promoted a case involving the practices put in place here, it would have received Right-wing support. This is where the Supreme Court is based on criticism of the Minister of Justice. Right wants to extend access to temporary work permits for housework, but there must be a non-discrimination based on law and order. On the right, this government does not accept the discrimination and discrimination introduced by its practice. Let me also point out that, on 29 January 1998, in an interview with the Minister of Labour and Administration, Right-wing Per-Christian Foss raised the labour shortage. Here, the Right raised the question of softening immigration policy by opening up more to labour from other countries. The specific issue we are dealing with today is so absolutely up-to-date the question of opening up the possibility of picking up labour from other areas than the EEA territory. However, in order for foreign workers to be able to work in Norway, there is still a need for changes to existing legislation, and so the Right conclusion is that the new Minister of Justice should, as has been announced, review the legislation regarding the granting of temporary work permits to foreign workers from outside the EEA territory. In the Right, we cannot see that higher education alone is a criterion. Domestic work is just as important as other work, and we want an embellishment of the stoppage of immigration in this area. Had this government taken the good advice from the Right in the Inner. S No 238 for 1996-97 ad notem, when we asked in the form of proposals for an assessment of the strictness of practice, the previous Minister of Justice had saved himself the heavy scratch in the paint which unfortunately is the case today. But we welcome from the Right that the Council of State will come back to the Storting with the proposals that we understand that an internal sample has come along and that are in line with the attitude that we have had in previous matters of this nature.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e295	I have noticed that the majority of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee believes that the Ministry of Justice did not have the right to grant a work permit to two Peruvian children's wigs in a Norwegian-Peruan family, in compliance with the second paragraph of Section 8 of the Foreign Affairs Act, cf. the third paragraph of Section 21 of the Foreign Regulation. The government's starting point in the case was that it is difficult to define the external framework of the Foreign Affairs Act § 8 second paragraph with certainty, but that the provision, which refers to general human judgements, provides a wide margin for discretion. However, I take note of the majority's view of the interpretation issue. Of course, I agree, and I understand, that the judgement should be within the main principles of immigration policy that the Storting approves. There's no disagreement here. I am pleased that the Committee agrees with the Government that the second paragraph of Section 5 of the Foreign Affairs Act empowers the King to further regulate the immigration provisions in detail. I also understand that the Committee believes that such a change as this matter is concerned would normally be within this competence. Where the majority of the Committee has found that, in this case, in the event of a change of regulation, work permits may be opened before the Grand Duchy has had a fundamental debate on the desirability of doing so, this is in view of the fact that, in the context of the examination of Document No.8:78 for 1996-97, the Grand Duchy was unable to amend the legislation in order to allow for work permits for foreign workers wishing to work in private homes. The majority believe that childcare must be regarded as work in a private home. I take note of this. The government will therefore present as soon as possible the question of the desirability and the need to be able to grant work permits to foreign child caregivers for the Storting as a matter of their own. We are also working on several other issues relating to the possibility of some embellishment in labour immigration to Norway. To the extent that any changes here would affect the main principles of immigration policy, I will, of course, come back to the Storting with this. I also want to review what is contained in the concept of «strong human interests» in the Foreign Affairs Act to see if there is a need for adjustments. Depending on how far the government wants to go, it could also be relevant here to present a case to the Stortinget. These are issues raised in the extension of work on the embellishment of practices in asylum and immigration policies undertaken by the Government in several areas. I allow myself, since it is the first time I stand on this pulpit on such questions, to mention some of the most important areas: Guidelines have been provided for the decoration of the asylum criteria and the practice of the so-called first country of asylum rule. The practice of stay on a humanitarian basis has also been softened. The family reunification rule has been reviewed. Some changes have already been made, others are proposed in these days in the context of a letter of consultation on various changes to the foreign regulations. An embellishment has been made for some groups of students to stay in Norway after completion of education. New public guidelines are being worked on the practice of the provision on the right of ill-treated women to a continuing residence permit after a break in life. Expulsion practices against foreigners who have children in Norway have been softened, with the exception of those who have been punished for the most serious crimes. The majority has itself adopted our proposal to set up a foreign student to deal with all complaints under the Foreign Affairs Act. It has been decided that the asylum interviews should be transferred from the police to the UDI. Service strategy for 1998-2000 is defined. A project has also been decided on to reduce the waiting time in asylum recipients. The Government has extended the annual allowance for the receipt of transfer refugees from 1000 to 1500. Changes have been made to the requirement to have Norwegian citizenship for so-called Kola Northmen, from 7 years to 2 years. In addition, amendments have been made to the Act of Citizenship and to the Act of Adoption which increase the right to Norwegian citizenship for children of Norwegian father who are not married to their foreign mother and for adoptive children respectively. A legislative committee is also set up to investigate and propose a new national law. The Chairman of the Committee had a fundamental review of some key issues, and was first of all, on a principle basis, concerned with the discretion under Section 8 of the Foreign Affairs Act. What he said about this I take note of. He also had a concrete assessment of the possibilities of bringing workers into the realm. I also take note of his views on this point. But I also want in principle to sign the case and give the Storting a chance to discuss these and – if later on – other questions as well. I would also like to make it quite clear that I do not intend, if I intend to amend regulations, to make individual decisions before regulations have been amended, or before one is sure that changes to regulations are based on principles drawn up by the Storting. In my view, the dispute, both about asylum policy and the aspects of perhaps taking workers to the kingdom, should be a matter of political disagreement where it may be. But it has to happen after an advance, and according to the principles that I have now outlined, and that I understand that the committee has also drawn up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e353	After many telephone calls on the Easter weekend from a shipowner's geographical environment, I will first conclude that it has not at any time been the aim of the Workers' Party, or wish, to hit an innocent third party, namely the two women from Peru and their employer and his family. The case concerns the fact that the political leadership of the Ministry of Justice has granted two applications for a residence and work permit without having the authority of the law and legislation in force. And when the Christian People's Party Odd Holten calls it a media-made case, it tells me that he has not fully understood the seriousness of a political leadership doing such a thing. This is, to the most extent, a state council case. The approval of political management took place after the UDI had rejected the applications in line with current law and practice, after the UDI had declined the appeal, and after the Ministry of Justice's professionals had promoted a negative attitude to the renewed appeal. And when I asked the Minister of Justice about this matter in the Question Time last October, she came up with an eye-catching answer. She meant – under doubt, correctly – to find the basis for the approval of the Foreign Affairs Act § 8, second paragraph, i.e. the Foreign Affairs Act security valve, which allows for a residence permit on a humanitarian basis. The problem is that the legislator has never intended this section to meet the needs of Norwegian employers, and it is also supported by the pre-workers and by practice after the law has been in force for more than 10 years. That section is for refugees who strictly do not fulfil the conditions of the law, but where several factors combined suggest that humanitarian reasons make them stay in the country anyway. It is an abuse of the safety valve of the Act on Foreign Affairs for those in need to refer to it when referring to the needs of the employer. I believe that the Minister of Justice's design of a legal basis – which really wasn't there – in answer to me in the Questionnaire was the main reason why the Enlarged Council's control committee at all took an interest in the matter. I do not decide whether the legislation should have been such that the children's wigs had been granted a residence permit, whether the legislation should be such that two-cultural families have children's wigs from their home country to one. It's not about now, it's about the government as a executive having to deal properly with the law and the legislative power. And if the government isn't satisfied with the practical results of the law, if they don't like to reject or make other decisions that the law prescribes, yes, they have to propose changes. That's child's lesson. There's something the kids are learning in primary school today! And also this government has to do things in the right order. It must first seek legal support and then change its practice. It was therefore good to hear the speeches of the current Minister of Justice. He is obviously in agreement with this, and it was good to hear that he would take all the necessary consequences of the appointment of the control committee. But at the same time I have to say that it is quite unfortunate that there had to be a formal suspension and a formal case in the Storting until before the Government and the Council of State would take these necessary consequences. I would also like to point out that there should have been extra caution in this matter since there are so close personal acquaintances between the former political leadership of the Ministry of Justice and the applicants' employer and the community that the former Minister of Justice found it timely from this pulpit to demand that it was knowledge and friendship that was decisive in this matter. After some years in the Judicial Committee, I have gathered numerous requests from applicants who would like to have a residence or work permit in the country, and their support groups and friends. I've looked at a lot of things, and I can hardly find a single thing where with humanitarian eyes I didn't want them to stay in Norway. If we unilaterally laid down human considerations, as well as anyone applying for a residence and work permit, it would have been granted. But today's refugee situation and economic world order indicate that it is impossible to lay human consideration unilaterally on the basis of it. Therefore, the second paragraph of Section 8 of the Foreign Affairs Act is only a safety valve for the grey zone issues, and therefore there is also a political agreement that we must have regulation in this area. If not, we won't be able to help them as much as most need help. We are not least reminded of that in these days where we see that there are thousands of people living in a war hell very close to us. There are thousands who need to get away to survive, there are thousands who need to come here to the country and get a residence permit to be able to live a life on at all. We must not forget that when we face applications from foreigners for a residence and work permit here in the country. But the fact that we need regulation does not mean that we adopt regulation once and for all. The regulation must continue to be evaluated and adjusted in line with the world situation and changing needs. And with regard to the Council's list of amendments in its statement, I would point out that, in addition to some decorations of which there has been largely political agreement, this government has also proposed restrictions, restrictions which are of such a nature that the Workers' Party has not been able to go in favour of them in any way, and to which the Government has thus had to seek support from the Progress Party, in order to get a majority for them in this Chamber. We have no objection to reviewing the legislation to obtain work permits in this country, as has now been announced, but we must never look at that legislation without taking into account the world's refugee situation and other needs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e376	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2626]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e390	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e399	The problems of predators in some districts may be one of the biggest problems the owners of buffs and tamrein are facing. Last year the owners experienced enormous losses of sheep and domestic animals as a result of a sharp increase in the number of predators. Developments in recent years with increasing loss of sheep and cleanness show that predatory policies appear to be out of control. It is regrettable that during the treatment of St.meld. No 35 for 1996-97, on predatory game management, in 1997, a large majority of workers, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the SV went into favour of a predatory policy that now places heavy burdens on the owners of buffalo and domestic animals. The point made by the proposers through the amendment of Section 11 of the Game Act is that the owners will again be allowed to defend buffs and tamrein under the risk of direct attack. A minority of the Committee has stressed that it should be easier to remove predators who have repeatedly caused damage to and loss of buffs or tamrein. The minority has also stressed that the industry itself must have the right to defend in an appropriate way what you own. Using pasture for grazing has been – and should be – a natural and proper use of this resource. Due to large losses of livestock, as well as an increasing stock of predators, more and more farmers are not using land for grazing for their livestock. If the pasture is to be used for grazing today, it is required to be continuously stowed in order to avoid excessive losses of livestock, but of course there is considerable economic stress on livestock owners. The problem of herding is now so great that the State Animal Health Authority has issued opinions on the prohibition of sheep on herding grounds in the most heavily burdened predatory areas. This shows that the predatory policies that are pursued — and have been — deliver results, unfortunately. On the part of the Progress Party, we believe it is reasonable that livestock farmers should be given the opportunity to do so and that they should at least be able to use the resources they have from nature. In very many areas of our country, livestock farming is an important field industry. I am concerned that the size of predatory farming in some areas is such that it imposes heavy economic burdens on animal husbandry as an industry. What is becoming the consequence of the growing predatory stock here to land is that more and more sheep owners cease farming because economic and mental burdens become too heavy. What happens next is that barley-Norway is slowly depopulated in favor of predators. Preventive measures and compensation schemes for the loss of grazing animals have been implemented. The publicly funded schemes have so far mitigated the level of conflict somewhat, but in a very close way solved the problems. The state has spent considerable amounts of money on prevention of predatory damage to buffalo, but losses and damages have never been greater than last year. What matters to us in the Progress Party is that those who feed buffalo and domestic animals can be protected against predatory practices. I must say that I am quite disappointed that the governing parties Christian People's Party and Left do not take this problem more seriously, but want to pursue a policy that causes major problems for the buffalo and domestic industries. I am also disappointed with the Centre Party, which obviously has no political weight in the Government, and which is therefore unable to influence its government colleagues in this matter. In conclusion, I would like to inform you that a few of the representatives of the Advance Party will vote against the change in the game law. Finally, I would like to address the minority proposal from the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Centre, which is mentioned in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e420	Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the suggestion to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e423	Ensuring viable populations of large predators in Norway while maintaining an active outreach industry has proved to be very conflicty. There has been a strong increase in the number of buffaloes that have been replaced as a result of predator damage in recent years. The easiest thing would probably have been to make a choice between either sheep or predators. But simple choices are not a good solution. Simple solutions in the last century resulted in the fact that we almost wiped out the big predators. The Central Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party choose the simple solutions of predatory policy. All their solutions in predatory game policy give the same answer: shoot the predators! They say no to core areas, they are in favour of a liberal injury trap across the country, and in this document no. They're going to change the emergency guards' paragraph. All of this makes it easier to shoot the predators. But this conflicts with the goal of building viable populations of the large predators, and the consequence of such a policy is that predators are slowly, but surely, eradicated. It is the third time in six years that the emergency army paragraph is addressed to political treatment in the Stortinget. When the law was amended in 1993, it was among other things. having regard to the opinion of the Court of Justice that the rule was unclear. In addition, there was a tendency to increase the number of falls based on the determination. The old rule was very liberal in the right to use emergency workers. It was sufficient that, for example: a bear remained in an area of buffe so that it could be fielded according to the old emergency protection paragraph. This Document No The 8-proposal is identical to the emergency protection clause of the old law. The current rule, on the other hand, assumes that the predator must be in direct attack on the buffalo in order to be killed. If the killing of large predators in accordance with the emergency protection paragraph were to increase, it would be difficult for several species to meet both the national targets and not least the international obligations. For a directly threatened species such as wolf, only a few fellings can eradicate the entire population of Scandinavia. The Labour Party therefore believes that it is essential to be able to follow up our predatory policies and secure the populations of all the four large predators in Norway that we maintain the current rule in the Civil Aviation Act. We believe that a change will break with the Berne Convention's intentions. For the Workers' Party, it was a prerequisite for tightening up the emergency guards' clause in 1993 that protection permits for buffs and tamrein were granted for rapid treatment. Our experience is that the treatment of the conditional killing permits has been significantly streamlined in the last two years. We therefore believe that the time aspect is no longer an argument for changing the law. It is indisputable that the growing population of predators creates major conflicts. It is therefore essential to succeed in predatory policies that comprehensive preventive measures to reduce predatory damage are implemented. Nevertheless, we are in the escalation phase in the testing and implementation of prevention measures. We have to leave these few hours to work before we pass a judgment on this policy. However, it is essential that the state makes available the necessary money and resources, so that the individual farmer/user does not suffer financial damage. In the last two years’ budget, the Labour Party has therefore proposed further increases in addition to the Government’s proposals in the appropriations for prevention and stock registration.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e440	The proposal we are discussing today is, in effect, a rematch to a similar proposal which was voted down in the debate on the June 1997 report. The proposers consider that there is a need to amend the emergency protection paragraph of the wild law in order to facilitate the extraction of predators causing damage to buff and tamrein, on the basis of the justification. It is claimed that today’s Section 11 of the Wildlife Act is the cause of major economic losses, mental stress and the set-aside of large Norwegian foreign resources. The majority of the Committee agrees that the situation in predator management is difficult and serious. The majority also have no difficulty in understanding that there are great psychological stresses for those who find their animals killed or killed on pasture. But despite this, it is not a change of § 11 that is the solution to the challenges we face in predator management. The proposal, as it stands on the table, actually means going back to the situation as it was before 1993. Today’s wording, in which game can only be common ‘under direct attack on buff and tamrein’, is proposed to be amended to ‘under direct attack on buff and tamrein’. It is therefore appropriate to present some key assessments made in 1993. A major reason for the 1993 amendment was that the wording of the then Section 11 was perceived as unclear by the Supreme Court. The term ‘under risk of direct attack’ resulted in significant problems of interpretation. It's such a vague legal state today's proposal for change will reintroduce. Furthermore, a trend towards ever-increasing falls was observed in 1993 following this very paragraph of the Game Act. If these developments were to continue, international commitments under the Berne Convention could have problems, especially in relation to endangered species, including wolves. Section 11 of the Wilderness Act is an important paragraph because it is the only provision that can kill pests without applying for a breeding permit first. This paragraph therefore has a significant impact on the real protection of predators in Norway. It is therefore unfortunate if such a provision is made with a wording which allows for greater uncertainty in interpretation and practice, as a consequence of this Document No. The 8th proposal. If, as a result of the change, we were to have a situation with greater deportation of predators, it could also be problematic to meet both national targets and international obligations. Paragraph 11 is a very central paragraph of the Game Act. Before the debate today, it has been argued from a different angle that Document No. The 8 proposal is an adjustment to the paragraph. But it's hard to see that there's a basis for asserting. One must, in my view, regard this as a significant change to the paragraph itself, which also affects the very management of predators in Norway. In the context of the treatment of the 1997 notification of wild game, the Stortingeten argued that the aim was to ensure the viability of all four major predatory species, while ensuring active farming with the possibility of exploiting the land resources for grazing sheep and domestic animals. Of course, it is worrying that the level of conflict in predator management is still high and that the situation in several places in the country is serious. There is therefore a need for effective measures to eliminate pests. It is positive that the Government has implemented several measures to improve the efficiency of predator management. The four major predatory species, conditional killing permits and measures to reduce the duration of the proceedings, training hunters and thus also the possibility of speeding up the killing of pests can be mentioned. It is important that the measures taken have time to work and that work be intensified before amending provisions that will have consequences for the entire management of predators. There is, in particular, reason to stress that the time period for the clearance of the accounts has fallen significantly in line with the Government's objective. In a letter from the Ministry of the Environment to the Committee accompanying the dossiers, it appears that of 23 applications for a breeding permit in Hedmark in 1998, a total of 22 average duration of three hours. Finally, I would like to stress the concerns that the Storting as a legislative body is invited to adopt the wording that the Supreme Court expressed in 1993 a clear scepticism. On this basis, I find it natural to reject the present Document No. The 8 proposal, thereby recommending the majority vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e468	I think it's hard to find any case that's created, that creates, more distance between people living in rural areas, and people who live in more central areas than this debate on predatory game management. The debate is completely under the skin of people who are going to live by exploiting the resources of Utkant-Norway, and the representatives of the parties who oppose this Document No. The 8 proposal, itself knows the reactions they get from their voters around Norway. But unfortunately, I just have to say that the representatives of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party in Hedmark, in North Norway and elsewhere are not getting an impact on their parties. They are allowed to travel in large words at their various annual meetings and events, but otherwise they have to vote loyally for a predatory policy that more than anything else sets evil blood, and which more than anything else in practice makes it impossible in many places to exploit the resource that lies in the oldest of all landowners' rights, namely grazing rights. The treatment of predatory game policy is a long way towards making it difficult, not to say impossible, to operate agriculture in Utkan-Norway. And the worst of it all is that it's always been a snitching of ever more difficult conditions. We've talked a lot about the Bern Convention. Probably not many – with a possible exception from the President – remember the ratification of the Berne Convention. I would like to quote what the then Environment Minister Rachel Surlien said in this debate: ‘The Berne Convention does not imply any further reinforcement in relation to today in the management of Norwegian species.’ The premise of the responsible State Council to ratify the Berne Convention – as a unanimous Storting did – was that this should have no consequences in relation to the practice at that time. We know how it went. Today, damages for predatory game damage have risen in almost unimaginable 100 million. kr. We pay this to a professional group that does not ask for compensation. What they're asking for is to be allowed to exercise their ownership, to operate their agriculture as they've done it through generations in this country. So these are not substitutes for Norwegian farmers asking for. At the same time, we see that from the most active, most fundamental opponents of the sheep industry, these costs that are directly in conflict with what the industry itself wants are used against the industry in almost any context to show how expensive it is to operate sheep farming. But sheep farming is an exploitation of a resource that otherwise would not be exploited, and it is the most sustainable of absolutely all the food productions that we have in this country. The sheep is nature's own pot. It keeps the vegetation down, and it exploits a resource that otherwise would never be exploited. I think it is very regrettable that the Christian People's Party and the Labour Party's district representatives will be involved in this. I would also like to say to the Christian People's Party representative that their conversion – if it is allowed to use that word – occurred sometime between Britt Harkestad and Hilde Frafjord Johnson. For the Christian People's Party was with the Right, the Advance Party and the Center Party as late as during the treatment of Ot. pp. No 54 for 1992-93, and said that the proposition did not give the basis then to change Section 11 away from what we are now proposing. And the majority, including the Christian People's Party, referred to ‘that, in the context of the treatment of the Berne Convention by the Storting, the law in force was not contrary to the requirements of the Berne Convention’. The claim that the proposal is contrary to the Berne Convention is incorrect. There are other political reasons why a claim is made that there should be something in the Berne Convention that prevents you from reintroducing this emergency protection clause into the wild law.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e489	Initially, I can confirm that the Centre Party supports the proposal to amend §11. In this context, I can also refer to Innst. S. No 301 for 1996-97, where the Centre Party, the Right and the representative Hillgaar propose to amend the same paragraph of the wild law. The centre party believes that experience suggests that a change in the law is being implemented in order to secure the objective of better and more balanced predator management. It's also important for me to show that in budget revenue. S. No 9 for 1998-99, a joint committee states that the situation is now serious in several places in the country, and that this applies to both sheep farming and reindeer farming. The Committee also believes that it is necessary to review the legislation and practice on pest extraction and asks that the results of such a review be presented to the Storting in an appropriate form. The centre party believes that the situation we see today is unacceptable, and that it is necessary to adjust the use of the instrument in predator management. Here is the right to nauding and thereby a change of Section 11 of the wild laws central. The question of the extraction of pests is particularly combustible. Among other things, there is little match between the number of killings and the number of killings. And at the same time as the need to use naudverje has increased, after the 1995 law revision, it has been harder to take out pests. As long as this condition persists, conflicts will increase, so that a major change in predatory management can occur. The centre party would stress that a far-sighted predatory management must be based on a general legal framework and trust in opposing interests respects each other. We will thus reserve ourselves against the claim that a change in law in line with Document No. The 8 proposal, which is now being handled, will create more unclear legal conditions, which in turn will be able to be exploited in outlaws by people who need to protect buffs and tams. Rather, such a change of law will be seen as reasonable and will serve as a confidence measure in the work of creating a permanent and good local anchoring of predatory management. Trust and accountability are generally accepted as a good tool for creating good postures, and they also apply in this respect. One of the main points to multipoint towards this change in Document No. The 8-proposal appears to be that shorter handling times of applications for cutting loops for pests, the conditioning of cutting loops for pests and better training of hunters could lead to better predator management and that this is sufficient. I record that the processing time has gone down, and I am happy for it. But has it helped with the outcome when it concerns the extraction of pests? I'm highly doubtful about that. And I would like to stress that with the background of 35 years of fighting as an active large-scale fighter, I find it difficult to understand that this is sufficient to quickly prevent any further and incurable damage to the buffalo and the domestic animal when predators strike. All the evidence from practical hunting suggests that all the handling of the matter outside the surrounding action is difficult to obtain from pests. I would therefore argue that a change to Section 11 of the wild law would be the best consideration for both buff and tamrein and the predatory tribes we are to take responsibility for in relation to the Bern Convention. And last, but not least, this change will create confidence in Norwegian predator management in many communities where the conflicts between buffalo and domestic animals and predators are continuing to take away the livelihoods of people.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e506	I have initially no difficulty in agreeing to the amendment of the game law proposed by the proposers. As the President is aware, I have raised on several occasions the issue of predator management and pest management in general. To claim that it is contrary to the Berne Convention to trap animals that damage property and domestic animals is, to put it mildly, a misinterpretation of the Berne Convention, for the Berne Convention explicitly states that the construction of predatory stock should not be at the expense of commercial and livestock farming. When the situation is as it is, with two so clear fronts to each other, something has to be wrong. There is evidence of total distrust between those who are struggling with these problems, those who want a balanced harvest and the shooting down of predators, and those who live in cities and have no problems. There is a conflict between the urban population and the rural population. And it's clear that when you lose more sheep and to the extent that domestic animals other than you can afford to carry financially, it helps to put down District Norway. It is an element of the system that disappears, and it is clear that you cannot live with it. I have an example that I think I have to go forward in terms of stock registration and doubting, and how the administration is looking after the local population. It's a special example that was told me a few days ago in Tromsø. In the Hattfjell Valley, there was a turbulence to the Tamreineier, and he discovered that there were you guys in the cold. He was now able to make so much trouble that he had to hunt it from there that evening. The next day it was nice track snow, and two pieces from the county environmental department came all by chance to register you. They all agreed that there were four yurts in the area. Everyone agreed on that, both from the county environmental department and the two from the local population. There was a new track snow, and it was quite obvious. Yet there were only two registered! Why was there only two registered? Well, because she could have doubted that it was four. So, if this is the trend for all the registration of predators in Norway, it is not surprising that we have a crisis of trust between management and population. I have to remind you of the wolf that was hit by the train in the Østerdalen, which was not supposed to be there, but that was there. These are living animals that multiply. With the legislation we have, it looks in many ways as if predators and pests have more protection than humans. There's six years of unconditional imprisonment to trap a peaceful animal. You don't get that in any case when you kill a human being. It's clear that this is a total imbalance in damages. One hundred million. kr it is paid on a national basis. I have to tell you that only in Northernland – in the farming district of Northernland – farmers lose their salmon for 35 million. kr, for which they are not compensated, due to the following pests and rescued animals: oats, mink, sharps and hedges. Over half of the salmon go otter of the farm with, and the otter is most at peace. After all, I have proposed that it be removed from the list of endangered species. The losses of the district industries due to pests and predators are so great that people simply cannot afford them. What happens then is that people take the law in their own hands. I have said it before from this pulpit, and I repeat it: people take the law in their own hands. They shoot the pests there is too much of, dig them down and remove them from the surface of the earth without it being registered. It would be better if we had a system so that people were allowed to shoot the pests that attack private property. At least we had it registered. What is happening today is totally unsustainable.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e523	In 1997 the size of the stockpiles carried out a full review of the stockpiles management in the treatment of St. meld. No 35 for 1996-97. The size then joined a goal of ensuring viable populations of all four major predatory species in Norway. At the same time, active farming shall be ensured with the possibility of exploiting grazing resources in sheep and clean pastures. The treatment of wild game messages by size is now being followed up in a number of areas. The government continuously assesses the measures and instruments that can be useful to achieve the objectives adopted. In this context, it is important for the Government to discharge our obligations under international agreements, such as the Convention on Biological Diversity and the Berne Convention. The government is also trying as much as possible to reconcile the concerns of livestock, local populations and primary industries in the districts. In this follow-up work, I attach great importance to close contact with both municipalities and other stakeholders locally. In 1993, Section 11 of the Game Act was amended. The amendment included, inter alia: that the freedom to trap game for the defence of buffalo or domestic animals was limited to ‘direct attack’ instead of ‘under threat of direct attack’. Before the amendment of the law, the wording of Section 11 of this section was perceived as unclear and difficult to practice, as was pointed out by, among other things. The National Attorney. There was also a trend towards an increasing number of carcass deposits based on the determination. The proposal by Bjørn Hernæs, Trond Helleland and Ivar Kristiansen implies that Section 11 will have the same wording as before the said change was made. I notice that the majority of the committee rejects the proposal. A change proposed would lead to a return to a legal ambiguity. At the same time, the number of killings may increase, which will also make it difficult to achieve national targets. I have also noticed that a majority of the committee is concerned that the level of conflict in the game management is high. The majority point to the need for effective measures to remove animals causing injury. I would like to point out that the Robbery Communication and its handling by the Storting provide guidelines for a range of instruments and measures that can help to reduce conflicts. This includes, inter alia: own stocking programme for large predators, tests with delegation of authority to local level and adjustments in the management of yorks and gloats. The government attaches great importance to conflict mitigation measures. Appropriations for prevention, migration and stock monitoring have increased significantly since 1997. I have placed great emphasis on the ability of pests to share rapidly, and therefore it is largely delegated conditional killing permits for pests to the county. Furthermore, the Ministry of the Environment has asked the Directorate for Nature Management to review the legislation on hunting, as part of its efforts to streamline management. I have also noticed that the number of committees is satisfied with the Government's commitment to improving the control of wild game management, and that the majority believe this must have time to work. In my view, this is a very important point. In order to combine the different considerations of predatory game policy in the future, it is also important to have clear framework conditions for sheep and clean people. It still means increasing investment in stocking and preventive measures and rapid pest withdrawals, while long-term management ensures viable populations of the four major predatory species.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e540	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e544	I really just have a little question for the Council of State. It is the responsibility of the animal owners, under the Animal Protection Act, to prevent the suffering of their domestic animals. The State Animal Health Authority has delivered an opinion on the prohibition of ovine animals on outdoor pastures in the most heavily burdened predatory areas. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: is it sound policy to give individuals and groups responsibility for a situation created by political decisions and government?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e551	Unfortunately, there is no doubt that it is often difficult to combine the two considerations in the report that the Stortinget has put the Government to manage, namely to maintain viable populations of the four major predators in Norway, while at the same time being able to use pasture for both sheep and reindeer. We know that this is a very environmentally friendly way of producing meat. Nor is there any doubt that predatory game damage causes both clean and sheep damage and suffering, and that this is a great psychological burden for the operators who experience this. That is also why the Government has given as much attention to anti-conflict measures as we have. That's why the stakes on stock registration have been increased. That is why there are different migration measures and their allocations have increased. And that's why we've very much gone over to a conditional killing permit scheme, so that pests can be removed quickly. That's also why the government in a review of the follow-up to the rapture message that was presented not long ago, said that we will go through the ethical aspects of animal husbandry during 1999. Because we see clearly that there are major challenges to the damage done to both sheep and clean, and not least the burden on those in the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e558	The size has repeatedly tried to gain a greater influence in the game management from those who wear the shoe and know where it presses. In view of the modern science and the people who know the problems, greater emphasis should be placed on, the Storting has said, and one of these democratization measures was the so-called Advisory Forum for Robbery Management, RUR, in Hedmark. In the autumn of 1998, the main predators withdrew from the sample, and a few weeks later the landowners also withdrew from the sample. My very specific question will be: Is the Council satisfied with the way in which this high-level Advisory Forum on Robbery Management works? I have another question, and it goes on the relationship with the forest owners. I have received a letter from Norskog, one of the major forest owners' organisations, saying that they have been contacted by several of their members who have been cancelled a hunting agreement of NOK 100 000 each because the hunters fear loss of a hunting dog first and foremost to the wolf. Forests find that there is no willingness of environmental protection authorities to engage in some form of constructive dialogue with forest owners, as they see it. Then my question becomes no. 2: Why should Norwegian forest owners not be included in advice and consultation on a matter that is so important? And finally, the Council of State referred to «unclear provision» in the Old Wildlife Act § 11. The question then becomes: does the Council of State think that today's administration is very clear as you see it in relation to, for example, the situation in the United States? the killing permit for wolf in Hedmark?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e572	Let me first say that when I made it clear that § 11 as it used to be, and where the old wording is now proposed to be reintroduced was unclear, there is an assessment that among other things. is based on the examination of the wording by the national lawyer. I do not think there is any reason to question the national lawyer's assessment of the matter. I believe that Section 11 as it stands today is clearer than it would be if it were changed. It's quite correct, as Bjørn Hernæs says, that the government has placed great emphasis on greater influence both from the communities and from those who wear the shoe, i.e. those who represent the industry itself. That is why a scheme has been implemented with predatory wildlife subjects, both central and regional advisory bodies. That is also why we have granted conditional exit permits to the county so that the decision can be taken more quickly and more closely to those concerned. And that's also why we have largely decentralized the distribution of preventive drugs, because we believe that it is those who live with this to daily, who see where these means will benefit as much as possible. I have also recorded that there are some conflicts and arguments about the names that have been appointed. I have a very broad review of the experience of predatory game policy so far after the last grazing season, and among the things that will be included in such an evaluation, is the scheme of both predatory game subjects and samples. Otherwise, I am prepared to take all stakeholders into dialogue on how to get the best possible predatory policy. This also applies to Norskog.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e583	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e588	It's a very difficult and in many ways emotional thing that we're discussing today. I think we can agree that this is not a kind of question that is just focused on economics, profitability, etc., but it also has very strong human aspects that we obviously need to understand and take into account. In this way, we can reassure the representative herenæs that we have about the same kind of feelings as everyone else in this matter, and we have the same degree of understanding of the emotional problems that, among other things, we have. landowners and owners of buffs and tamrein are aware of. I would like to say to the representative hereafter that he represents a party which, together with the rapporteur's own party, uses this speaker's chair very diligently to stress the need for the judicial authorities to have working conditions under which they can operate as best they can. It is then a bit striking that the representative Hernæs with open eyes goes back to formulations that the Supreme Court warns us against using because they are unclear, thus causing interpretation problems that cause the judicial authorities to have significant problems dealing with this in their system. It's a little bit surprising. Then hereafter is very concerned about the representatives of the Christian People's Party, especially district representatives. I hope that care applies in other matters as well – it would have been nice. But during the three minutes that go by, and perhaps even during the day with voting, the Christian People's Party will of course facilitate that those who feel very strong to vote for this proposal will have the party's blessing to do so. This opens up the possibility that our own district representatives, too, will get their point of view in this Chamber. With regard to the articles of the Centre Party, I would just like to say that the word ‘to adjust’ is going on again. This is not a game law adjustment. There is a rather significant change in a basic foundation in the game legislation to which it is added, despite the fact that there are literally relatively small changes. In practice, we have to refute the fact that we are talking here about an adjustment of the game law. These are fundamental changes that are added up to here. Finally, I would like to say that the Baste was concerned with the relationship of district problems/urban problems. Yeah, it's about that too, but it's not just that. It's a very simplification of the problems, because there are some of us who actually have some contact with the districts, even though we're relatively urban, and we have a certain sense of what's going on in District Norway also in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e601	Today's debate is, in fact, two related debates, but which are still two different debates. Firstly, there is a general predatory debate on the management of viable predators, and secondly, a debate on the right of persons to the need for life and livelihood. Section 11 of the Game Act is about emergency workers. There is an old legal tradition in Norway to defend lives and livelihoods against attacks by predators. I still want to stand on this tradition, and I feel that this basic attitude has a strong uprising in the population. In my opinion, today's legislation is too tight, as it only includes situations where one can prove attack. It's too late to shoot if the attack is complete, i.e. when the buffalo has been killed or damaged so much that life is not able to rock. This is a law that makes an emergency person very difficult to realize, and I feel that today's Section 11 is more of a paper determination that has emptied the emergency term for content. I want a law that makes the emergency section real, and will therefore vote in favour of the amendment of the law. However, I would like to give the Government the freedom to consider other wordings that make the paragraph comprehensive in relation to the emergency situation. The second debate is the predatory debate itself. It is part of the case complex we are discussing today, but it is not the primary one for the design of the emergency response. I think it is positive what the government has started with the faster processing of breeding permits and trials with local administration of breeding permits. I would like to refer here to the experiences of the Lierne municipality last year with local management of the bedding permit on the bear, which I believe needs to be summed up as positive. The government should therefore continue in this direction, because at the same time we show confidence in the perception of the situation by the local population. It is now also necessary to have more local involvement in stock registration and stock assessment. So far, in the name of science, we have placed little emphasis on the understanding of the local population. The government has promised an ongoing evaluation of predatory policies. That is what is needed, and it is positive what the Council of State has presented in today's debate. For me, it's wrong to say that we're going to have special Norwegian bear trunks. The bear that lives in Norway is part of a Swedish-Norwegian bear strain that is growing and expanding westwards. The question of whether this stock is threatened comes in a different light. The situation of the southern Scandinavian wolf population is different — it still needs very strict protection. In the Christian People's Party there are divided opinions, and there are many who are concerned that predatory policies will lead to excessive burdens on vulnerable communities. We need better dialogue between local communities, large communities and nature management to find management models of trust and what ensures viable predatory populations. Then we need legislation that gives a real experience of needy people, and that this is recognised by the big community. That is what today's debate is about.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e614	There have been a couple of clarifying rounds. I am very pleased that Brother Yngve Rahm says that the Christian People's Party is free in this matter. It will then be very exciting to see how many representatives will support the proposal. I also join until the post from the latter speaker. If the government has other formulations that could cover some of the same intention as the one we have with our proposal, I can promise that we on the Right will be open to it. That is why this constant reminder of the State Attorney's statement on the ambiguity of Section 11 that we want to reintroduce becomes all the more surprising. If that is the case, then the department and government are free to make regulations for a reintroduction that removes that confusion. I just notice that the council claims that today's law is more clear than the old one. I hear she says that – I think it would have been justified to ask for a hint of justification for such a claim. As we experience the practice around, it is very difficult to see that there is coverage that today's rule is clearer when you see, for example. the situation we have had around the molting permit granted by the Government in the Østerdalen, and the further treatment of it. So I want to get into this question of guessing. It must be allowed to ask questions about what kind of show they're doing that means that farmers should go out and guess their cattle. What are they going to get to guess with? I assume they're going to be allowed to carry a cape, when the bear or the wolf enters the sheep flock? For a farmer, it is quite natural that the only way to protect their livestock in relation to a predator is in the form of a gun, but it is not that you want to shoot away game! I want to say it so that if there are anyone who knows what long-term, resource management and sustainable agricultural development is, then there are farmers. It is farmers who have created the Norwegian cultural landscape – it is not bureaucrats in the Ministry of the Environment or in the Directorate of Nature Management. To make a claim that it would lead to virtually illegal conditions to introduce a practice that allows the farmer to take care of his cattle is completely without coverage in the thinking of a farmer, and it is completely uncovered in reality as it is in the Norwegian countryside.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e623	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2626]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e637	I register that the case rapporteur does not find it worth presenting the setting in this case. When I'm done with my post, I think he's going to undo it. I see that the Committee proposes that my proposal be annexed to the Minutes. It's not exactly a bad idea. But I prefer it to be turned into a transmission proposal – and I suggest it. The rationale for the proposal being promoted is to assess the social consequences of the use of this law in relation to the revised national park plan in St.meld. No 62 for 1991-1992, which was dealt with in 1993. I have registered that in my letter to the Committee, the Ministry of the Environment, in a slightly irritating tone, points out that I have written that the Ministry of the Environment has been given authority to implement the plans that may be relevant to the treatment. They point out that it is the Government that has obtained that authority in connection with royal resolutions. Of course I'm aware of that. So that's not a big surprise. But there's more to my point than that. I would like to draw the attention to page 97 of the big message that has been mentioned. There is a clear and clear recommendation from the National Council for the Conservation of Nature. This is particularly true of the Helgeland area, but it still applies to everyone. That's where the State Council on Nature Conservation says: «SNR considers the area to be significant in nature type contexts. Here it is possible to maintain a coherent, pristine area from high mountain to sea.’» To the sea. So a small footnote. And just like that, it says, ‘The good populations of ots in the region and the presence of the four major predatory species require a high priority in terms of protection’.» Why do I mention otter? It's a proposition for a number of statements I've made in the past, and that oter is still a endangered species. But the first quote ended with ‘from the high mountains to the sea’. We are then faced with a very interesting problem with regard to the impact on business. We have an agency called the County Environmental Protection Department. I have not at my best understood the authority of the county's environmental protection department. As far as I am concerned, it is a controlling body in relation to the fact that laws and regulations are being followed in this country. So, do we have a separate department under the county that is controlling, while at the same time making adjustments to different laws and regulations? Does the President see that we can have a constitutional problem here? I wish Kosmo had been here and listened to, but I can promise that the last words have not been said in this case. When we meet with different heads of state environmental services, it is always pointed out that ‘The size has said’ and ‘The size has adopted’. At all meetings, it is always shown when you allow yourself to criticise what has been done. Now it is – as I quoted it – that the Storting has decided that boundaries for nature parks should go from mountain to sea. And the Ministry of the Environment of the Directorate for Nature Management should make proposals for different plans, nature parks, etc. In particular, farmers in the Nordic countries, and not only in the Nordic countries, but along the whole coast, have had a heavy process with the same environmental protection department. There has been dialogue, which has been achieved after long-term knocking on the environmental protection department's door, and culminating in the treatment of the coastal protection plan for Northern Ireland last autumn, when it was decided that an impact assessment would be available before the plan was adopted. After that date, the Environmental Protection Agency became more aware and would abandon all conflicts and create dialogue. Then we experience that the Directorate of Nature Management is changing the procedures for external planning limits. They have sent a letter to the County Environmental Protection Agency setting out guidelines for the establishment of external spatial planning limits, including: in areas proposed for protection under the National Park Plan. There shall be a new administrative management of the protection plan prior to the formal start of work on the protection plan. The external level of the plan involves restrictions on the sites requested for farming. In other words, here the Directorate for Nature Management takes liberties and sends letters to the County Environmental Protection Department and sets up maritime borders in contravention of what has been decided by the Stortinge. How can the Ministry of the Environment defend it? When contacting the Environmental Protection Department in Northern Ireland to obtain a copy of the letter from central environmental protection authorities, which includes the new practice of setting external spatial planning limits, it is stated that it is written except for publicity. It's except for the public, in this case for the Nordland Breeding Association, but I'm going to assume it's not secret to big business representatives. I would like an answer to that from the Minister for the Environment. How can the Ministry of the Environment of the Directorate for Nature Management allow itself to go far beyond the powers granted during the deliberations of the Directorate for Nature Management. No 62 for 1991-92? The consequences of such treatment are that the Directorate for Nature Management of the Ministry of the Environment and the Department of Environmental Protection of the county already undertakes a bonding and conservation of large areas on the north-eastern coast which make it impossible to deal with the concession for the launching of installations. In this area, it is clear that when starting treatment of a protection plan – it is planned to start in 2000 – three years of local consultations plus central consultations are expected to take place for an estimated two years, including six years of engagement before a case can be dealt with. Six years of bonding in violation of Storting’s decision! I think it is so serious that the committee leader or at least the case rapporteur should be in the Chamber when I deal with this matter. It is a good part for the Minister for the Environment to answer in this matter, and I hope that she can answer some of the questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e679	The representative Bastesen suggested that he wanted to reform the proposal. Would you like Bastes to include his proposal in the document?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e682	Yes – for transmission.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e687	The representative Steinar Bastisen has taken up the proposal he has referred to, and asks that it be transmitted to the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e690	The representative Bastisen addressed a number of issues in his article and also a number of issues that are not immediately under consideration of the specific proposal, but let me nevertheless comment on some of them. It is true that in protective processes we place great emphasis on the fact that all interests must be heard before final protective decisions are taken and that the degree of protection can be combined with reasonable nutrition in the area. However, we have seen that from time to time there has been practice of procedural rules that could have been better. We will try to correct this, for example: by clarifying the treatment procedures, both rights and obligations, and also by stressing that the protection authorities are to involve the community more fully than before in the planning process through the revision of guidelines for central government, as well as, of course, involving the departments concerned to a large extent. I will also be allowed to say that we have recorded in recent years that the processes have improved. We have in some individual cases started a parallel planning according to the Planning and Building Act while there is a process under the Nature Conservation Act. It is precisely to ensure that local interests enter an earlier stage of the process, and to ensure that local elected bodies are also involved in the process at an early stage. I think that's an important and proper step to take. I also want to remind the representative of Bastesen that, in the light of an interpellation by the representative of Bjørn Olsen last year, the department is working on a communication for the Stortinget on protection in the coastal zone. In this Communication, we will discuss, at an overall level, the issue of how sea areas are to be included in coastal zone protection areas and their nutritional consequences. So we're going to promote the announcement of the current spring session. I expect that we will have the opportunity to come back to a number of the specific questions and issues raised by the Bastesen representative, in the context of the debate on this coastal communication.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e701	I'm not going to spend that very long time. I have to ask the Minister for the Environment a few questions: does she defend the fact that a circular covering industrial activities of such vital importance – the bonding of sea areas in Northern Ireland for six years to come – will be neglected? Is there to have a secret process that is, in fact, contrary to the decision of the Storting? Does the Minister for the Environment defend such a procedure by the Directorate for Nature Management and the Department for Environmental Protection in the county?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e706	I understand very well that the Bastisen is involved in the matter, but I have to get him fixed on one point. He said the case rapporteur was not present in the Chamber. I am the case rapporteur, and I have studied the matter carefully. I have had many hearings, and as the Bastisen can see, the Advance Party and the Right have a comment on the matter itself, but not on the decision. What is the point for us in this case is finally the seventh and last thing in the letter from the department, which is shown on page 4 of the setting: ‘However, once this has been said, it must be acknowledged that there has been a practice of the procedural rules that could have been better from time to time. We are now trying to correct this, inter alia, by clarifying the treatment procedures.’ I can tell Bastesen that in the context of hearing statements I have become familiar with very serious things that have happened. I don't want to take it up here now. I think it is okay that the Department says that they will promote revised guidelines on this during the first half of 1999. Then we'll see what's coming. That is why we are now submitting this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e716	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2627]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e730	This is also a matter that concerns me a lot. This is the case with the law, that as lawmakers, we make laws that create difficulties for the pursuit of business. As I refer to in my proposal, people no longer dare to report whether cultural memories they discover. People plow in the dark, people take care of themselves. I want to say it so strongly that the cultural memory work around the municipalities is set back ten years in time, because if it is discovered an arrowhead or something similar to an arrowhead, the area is bound. You don't get to grow the land anymore. These are conditions that we can't live with. Now I see that the committee has agreed that the proposal should be annexed to the Minutes. That is, I suppose, a good proposal, too. It goes on to point out that a public body is to explore cultural memory policy. The Committee also says that it assumes that the issues I have raised will be addressed. But I wonder if the sample is reduced, and whether it has begun to work. In that case, it might be very interesting to know who is the leader of that sample. It is of great importance to get work started as soon as possible, because it is a problem when setting up some kind of business that if, as mentioned above, a stone similar to an arrowhead is found, the work will be stopped for months, perhaps for years, until the registration work is completed. Procedures must be established to start work immediately and construction can continue. I have a special example from my municipality, Brønnøysund. It turned out that the largest industrial effort in Northern Ireland – almost to say – during this hundred years, with investments in the 150-million-class, was being stopped because of the procedural procedures in the county, because a municipal road had been repaired here in favour of the rural population, and it had been cleared and built on an old road to get to and make holes in the mountains so that they could extract lime. This goes beyond the sense of people living in the area. After all, that case has been investigated by Ecokrim – to mention the special case. But there are many such things. The county has withdrawn the review, but Ecokrim has well found that there was one case in which they could possibly finally get a victory, because there have not been too many of them from Ecokrim. And of course, it ended up in court, because the penalty wasn't passed. There is a strong need for a review of the practice of this law, and I would like to have the name of the leader of the sample that may be reduced, in order to make recordings.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e745	I was initially not prepared to take the floor in any of these last two matters, but when I get direct questions, I will of course answer them as far as possible. Let me first say that I hope and believe that there is a broad consensus that cultural memory policy is important and that our cultural memories are an important area. It gives us lessons about the past. We know that cultural memories are important for both identity and belonging, and we also know that cultural memory policy often creates a great deal of local commitment, such as we. So during the Cultural Memory Year. And last, but not least, I want to remind you that our cultural memories are also an important nutrient path. In fact, taking care of cultural memories creates a cavern, among other things. for tourism. With regard to the proposal to set up a sample to assess the economic and social impact of the Cultural Memory Act, I point out that on 9 April 1999, the Government has appointed a wide-ranging selection to explore strategies, objectives and instruments of cultural memory policy. It follows from the mandate that the selection should review the relevant instruments in the field of cultural memory, including the economic and social implications of the Cultural Memory Act. The Committee shall also look at the framework conditions for all those who have cultural memories in their private ownership. I am therefore pleased that the Committee has come to the conclusion that a separate sample is not necessary to assess these issues. I can also tell the representative Bastesen that he will find both the mandate and the composition of the ODIN selection under the Ministry of the Environment, that the leader is assistant to Telemark, Wallevik, and that, as far as I remember, the sample has 17 members with a large geographical spread, where business is also represented, and that the representative Bastesen can among others. contact one of the members, who is from the sea, if he so wishes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e754	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2627]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e767	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e785	During the debate, Mr Korsberg put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Centre parties. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to amend Section 11 of the Game Act so that game can be common without regard to conservation when killing must be considered as being required to remove a current and significant risk of injury to the person and under threat of direct attack on buff and tamrein. Folding must be reported immediately to the wild.’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-12.ana.ud732e806	In the course of the debate, Mr Bastesen, on behalf of the People's Party, took up the proposal put forward in the vote and, at the same time, turned it into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended accordingly and is worded as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government establish a sample to assess the economic and social impact of the practice of revised ‘New National Parks Country Plan’ and the Nature Conservation Act. The committee should also submit proposals for such impact assessments to follow all protection proposals to submit these impact assessments to the Stortinget before taking a decision on major safeguards.’;» The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
