ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e47	President Kirsti Kolle Grondahl and the representatives of Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, Erik Dalheim, Steinar Basteen, Berit Brørby, Helene Falch Fladmark, Bendiks H. Arnesen, Børge Brende, Jørgen Kosmo and Odd Holten, who have been licensed, have taken the seat again. The following called alternates have taken their seat: For Akerhus County: Lars Rovik Odegård. For Uppland County: Fredrik Farber For the Westfold state: Karin Lian. Two permit applications are filed: from the Group of the Progressive Party on sick leave for the representative of the Øyvind Vaksdal from 2 June onwards and until further notice from the representative of Odd Eriksen on leave in days 2 and 3 June to take part in the groundbreaking of the Sametinget in Karasjok On a proposal from the President, the following agreement was reached: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications will be examined immediately and accepted.2. The representatives of goods, from the Northern Region of Olsen and Rogaland counties of Toril Haaland Horpestad, are called to meet during the term of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e127	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinget meeting today – and see it as agreed. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e132	I propose Ursula Evje as President-in-Office of today's meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e137	There are suggestions about Ursula Evje as president. . Other proposals are not in line, and Ursula Evje is elected by consensus as the chairman of the meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e154	Time goes by, and things that were modern and functional a few years ago, are old-fashioned and done today. The same is true of the electronic navigational aid device Omega. In addition to Loran C, we've got GPS. Frequency increases and antennas are less and more environmentally friendly. In the course of a note exchange on 5 November 1971, the Norwegian and US authorities concluded an agreement establishing a station for the American navigation system Omega. This was a global system used in particular for transcontinental flight, shipping and meteorological observations. Omega had eight stations, located in different countries/continents to provide optimal coverage. One of these stations was built on Brattland in the municipality of Lurøy in the county of Nordland. The Omega navigation system was gradually replaced by new technology. On 30 September 1996, the Agreement between the United States and Norway was terminated by the US authorities with binding effect from 1 October 1997. The Omega station must now be demolished, which of course also entails decommissioning costs. The Omega station consists of a transmitter building of 1200 m2 and a tuner building of 323 m2 that fines the five frequencies of the station. It also consists of two smaller cabins at the antenna parties at Liatind and Aldra, two residences on Brattland, and a warehouse of 160 m2 in Stokkvågen approx. 10 kilometers south of Brattland. The antenna consists of two separate voltages crossing the Aldersundet. The antenna party on the mainland side is located at Liatind approx. 900 moh., and two different places on the island of Aldra. Voltage No.1 has a length of approx. 3500 m, weighs 17,5 tonnes and is attached to Aldertind approx. 730 moh. Voltage No 2 has a length of approx. 3,300 m, weighs 16,8 tonnes and is attached to Aldra approx. 580 moh. From the antenna attachment at Liatind, a wire goes down along the mountain side to a winch house of 184 m2 and a 60 m high barn tower with two solders of approx. 10 tons each. These installations tighten and slack the antenna lines as necessary, and damp the wind pressure to which the antennas are subjected in bad weather. The issue of the establishment of the Omega station, including draft agreement between the Norwegian and US authorities, was put before the Stortinget at St.prp. No 13 for 1971-72 – Consent to exchange notes on the conclusion of an agreement between Norway and the United States of America on the establishment of a permanent ‘Omega’ navigation station in Norway and at Innst. S. No 19 for 1971-72 of 20 October 1971, to which the Stortinget agreed. Under this agreement, the US authorities committed themselves to cover all expenses related to the establishment, maintenance and operation of the Omega station. The telecommunications network was to operate operationally. In 1984, however, changes to the agreement were negotiated which meant that from 1 January 1986 the Norwegian authorities would cover the remuneration of the nine employees of the station and the administrative costs incurred by the Telewerk. These expenditures were carried over the budget of the Ministry of Fisheries. 1070 Electronic navigation aids item 71 Human resources grants, Omega broadcasting station. If the agreement was terminated by one of the Contracting Parties, the Agreement and an additional technical agreement to that effect of 3 January 1979 show that the US authorities are responsible for the costs of removal of radio transmitters and specified support electronics in the transmitter building. The agreement does not regulate which country's authorities are responsible for the remaining and most extensive liquidation costs. This applies, inter alia, to: costs of removing the antenna foundations, dismantling the two antennas and the tighter/slacking devices of the antenna. The Ministry of Fisheries proposes, inter alia: on the basis of assessments by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Advocate-General, that these expenditure is the responsibility of Norway. This is a vision shared by the Committee on Transport. The preliminary estimate of the cost of demolition of the installation is 13 million. kr. No funds have been made available from the Ministry of Fisheries budget to cover grubbing-up costs. The Ministry of Fisheries has until 1998 allocated funds. 1070 item 71 to cover personnel costs. Residues of 2,065 million. kr has been transferred to 1999. Residues after deduction of the costs of overseeing the plant until demolition are estimated to be 1,7 million. kr, which could be part of the financing of the grubbing-up costs. This means that there is a need for a net of 11.3 million. kr. To this end, any revenue from the sale of the remaining property stock in relation to the Omega station, which could be shown as random income, will be deducted. 5309, heading 29. In view of the site in the autumn of 1998, some worrying observations were made. At the antenna foundations on Liatind, there were large rust formations on both antenna voltages. The antenna voltage is a wire made of many steel wires that are welded together in a cable. Several of these steel wires were fractured as a result of the rust formations. Similar observations were also made several places on the wire led down the mountain side of Liatind. From an engineering team it is recommended that the antenna system be immediately dismantled – the two antenna voltages, the antenna foundations, the tension wire, the blast tower and the winchhouse. Reference is made to the fact that the antenna system, due to its dimensions, could have a high potential for damage if it breaks down. Due to varying weather conditions and the need for extensive use of helicopters during dismantling, work must be carried out in August as weather conditions are usually the most favourable. I assume that Telenor, who has been responsible for the technical and choosing the contractor to perform the dismantling, has evaluated several contractors. Thorough and time-consuming preparations must be made before work is started. The final date for starting such a process has been set by the contractor at the end of April. Therefore, in order to start this process, funds must be made available by the end of April at the latest. We have now come to the end of May, and the decision to grant is only taken today. But I still assume that the work is started now. An overall Committee on Transport joins the proposal in the proposal and assumes that the work is carried out within the allocated 11.3 million and that the sale of the remaining property will be deducted. I also assume that a smaller consumption will be posted as random revenues, chapter. 5309, heading 29.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e186	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3510]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e204	There is widespread agreement that motor vehicles must be combined with care and consideration in order to ensure safety and safety. This applies both to drivers and any passengers and to other road users and pedestrians. Therefore, it is important that we have a regulatory framework that helps to increase our attention and presence. Also, the fact that we have too many traffic accidents with serious consequences suggests that we have to try everything that can be done to bring down the accident figures. Compliance with speed limits, bans on driving in an intoxicated state and compliance with other traffic rules are intended as regulations for the benefit of all on and along the roads. While the normal driver may sometimes disagree with the restrictions imposed by signage, it does not exempt anyone from complying with the provisions. My interpellation with the Minister of Justice today does not intend to draw into question any of the necessary regulations I have mentioned. On the contrary, I want to contribute to respect for the law and to understand that when we are as many as we walk along and along the roads, each one must take responsibility for the fact that there is no danger or harm. And a crime must have consequences for the offender. But I assume that the prosecution authority and the court follow as a principle that the individual criminal response is as adapted as possible to the individual offender and the criminal offence he has committed. And it is in this context that I want the Minister of Justice's assessments of today's application of Section 239 of the Penal Code in relation to what is called photocopies. I am aware that various aspects of negligent killing in the use of motor vehicles have been given relatively high attention in St.meld. No 23 for 1991-92. It was in a change of law on 8 July 1988 that the Penal Code was added to Section 239, including the use of motor vehicles. The legislator's intention was to intensify the reactions to traffic offences with death. In the past, the courts had reacted mainly to the road traffic situation and not to the penal code § 239, although there was already an opportunity to judge under the latter law. In the consultation round on the bill at the time, no one opposed stricter penalties for negligent shooting. However, the Advocate General proposed that ‘this should be achieved by tightening the rules of the Road Traffic Act, not by § 239’. When this case received so much attention in the said St.meld. No 23 only three years after the law was given the supplement ‘including in the case of motor vehicles’, it was due to the fact that the amendment of the law had led to far more convictions than before. In addition, the penalties measured were more stringent than they were in similar cases before the amendment. There were also several teams who raised questions as to whether it is desirable to have a legal status which means that a driver could be convicted of a car rap due to a lack of care in the traffic that is not gross. Having caused the death of another person is a strong personal impression in itself, and the stamp killed – although negligent and not intentional – is a far too strong additional reaction. When the Justice Committee delivered Innst. S. No 192 for 1991-92, it was agreed on a cross-political basis that ‘not any inattentiveness on the part of the driver leading to an accident involving death shall result in prosecution in accordance with the provisions of the Criminal Code on negligent killing’. The Committee stressed that ‘this has not been the intention of the legislator either. In the opinion of the Committee, prosecution under the penal law should be reserved for the more qualified forms of negligence’. Furthermore, the Judicial Committee agreed with most hearing bodies and the Ministry’s conclusion that, at that time, it would be sufficient to adjust the requirement of negligence that should lead to prosecution and judgment without any legislative changes. But the unwritten condition for not making a legislative change was that the committee expected the prosecution authority to bring its practice into line with that of the Stortinge. And this is what causes this interpellation: Is the current practice of the prosecution consistent with what was and still is the premise of the Storting? That notification, which was approved by the Council of State on 20 December 1991, states: «Perhaps the pendulum has fluctuated somewhat in these matters, so that even the slightest inattentiveness of a driver can lead to prosecution and judgment for negligent killing. An adjustment to the practice of the prosecution authority in this direction should mean that it responds to the provisions of the Road Traffic Act in cases where there is very little to prevent the driver. It will be for the Advocate General, in the first instance, to decide on such an adjustment.’.» So has the national lawyer made an adjustment in this direction? The morning edition of the evening post on 11 August 1995 includes, among other things: an interview with Advocate General G. F. Rieber-Mohn, where he said at the end of the interview according to the newspaper: ‘In the near future, a letter will be sent to the state attorneys asking for a more moderate rental to sue for negligent rap. The law was strengthened in the late 1980s, and prosecution authorities and courts followed up loyally. A few years later, when politicians saw that obsessiveness with death sentences often ended in killing speech, also almost as a result of drivers’ everyday behaviour, there was a change in attitude. There were indications from Stortinget to reserve the killing determination for the more qualified cases of negligence. This may be grounds for intensification.» As far as I am aware, no letter was sent to the state attorneys as the interview signaled. On the other hand, a letter was sent to the Ministry of Justice a year later. The Department of Law, which in its letter of 2 March 1998, responds to the fact that it is not currently appropriate to take action with a view to amending Section 239 of the Penal Code. The law department refers to a ruling in the Supreme Court on 4 November 1997, where there are opinions that may indicate a certain adjustment in the application of the law in connection with Section 239 of the Criminal Code in traffic cases. In view of this, in a letter of 19 March 1998 to all the Advocates of the State, with the exception of Ecocrim, the Advocates of the State also draw particular attention to developments in law in this area in the future. Some dramatic changes in prosecution practices do not provide the basis for the available material. It is true that the legislator does not want a total reversal back to what existed before the change in 1988. But at the same time, practice seems to show that the prosecution authority uses §239 more frequently than the Stortinget saw when the law was passed. In any case, it is reflected in what I have described earlier. The most agonizing thing is when emotions and justice come into conflict with killing speech in the areas described by national attorney Rieber-Mohn as 'caricist everyday behaviour'. Allow me to mention two examples of this: Not so long ago, the final sentence was set by the acquittal of a father who was accused of killing his child who fell by the tractor his father drove, with death in consequence. In addition to the tragedy of parents losing their child, the additional impact of killing speech and legal migration came. And no later than a month ago, Agder was sentenced to court under Section 239. The defendant was convicted of negligent killing to, among others, unconditional imprisonment. But it is also stated in the judgment that the driver in question had been oblivious for perhaps one second. Therefore he did not immediately notice that a person started turning left to cross the road and therefore braked too late to avoid driving. The speed was calculated to be 40 to 45 km/h in the 50s zone. In the minds of ordinary people, such events will be perceived as accidents – tragically correct, but equally full of accidents.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e250	In the years 1980 - 1987, there were on average 13 convictions of negligent killings per year. In the period 1989–94, an average of 41 persons were convicted of negligent killing each year. Probably turned over 90 pst. of cases of negligent killing in traffic. So the number of convictions for negligent killings tripled after 1988. That's why I want to start with a review of the legal situation before and after 1988. Before 1988, we in Norway were very reluctant to condemn negligent killings. There were several examples of the court condemning violation of Section 3 of the Road Traffic Act on negligent driving, but freed from negligent killing, despite the fact that the driving had led to a fatal accident. The background was enough that matters of negligent killing were treated with the jury. The jury probably went back to judge for negligent killing when negligence was of a kind that most drivers are guilty of from time to time. Because the jury does not justify its decision, acquittal could be difficult to verify. In order to avoid a court-martial procedure, the prosecution authority gradually failed to take action in some cases for negligent killing and satisfied itself with a charge for negligent driving. The present Eidsivating State Advocate General described, with the agreement of the Advocate General, the situation as follows: ‘In the case of Eidsivating State Lawyers, through years of practice, it has built up a solid experience base on which circumstances must exist before the law answers yes to the guilt question of negligent killing in the use of motor vehicles. There are two factors that seem to have to exist in combination, namely driving in the affected condition and high speed, or other grossly irresponsible driving. Although both of these conditions exist, it is not rare for the law to answer no to debt issues under Section 239 even if the conditions for the payment of the penalty are met. In cases where the driver is not affected by alcohol, the experience is that the law is very easy to answer even if there is really dangerous and gross negligence. On this basis, enforcement practices have probably developed and are not prosecuted under Section 239 even if the conditions are actually present.’ Norway was in a special position with regard to the number of convictions for negligent killing. In 1960, every seventh carcass led to a conviction for negligent killing in Denmark, Sweden and Finland around every four. In Norway, the corresponding figure was one case of 46 accidents. The number of convictions increased slightly after 1960. In 1988, however, the Ministry of Justice concluded that this practice had not changed significantly, even in recent years. The Ministry considered that this practice was not satisfactory and that there was a need to increase the care of drivers in traffic. It therefore proposed in 1988 an addendum to Section 239 of the Criminal Code on negligent killing, which was endorsed by Storting. It is now explicitly stated in Section 239 that even negligent killings are caused by the use of motor vehicles. A similar change was made in Section 238 concerning gross bodily damage. At the same time, cases of negligent killing would no longer be dealt with by a jury. The change in the law had no direct legal significance. The photocopies were covered by §§ 238 and 239 even before the amendment of the law. The aim was to give a clear signal that accidents of death in traffic would lead more often than before to the charge and conviction of negligent killing, and that the punishment in such cases would be intensified. The triple in the number of convictions suggests that the criminal justice system took these signals. Many thought that practice was too strict. It would often be almost nothing more to judge. A decision – Legal term 1990, p. 1021 – can serve as an example: A driver had been guilty of a short-term faulty distribution of attention. While driving in line at a speed of 70-80 km/h, he attached the attention to a motorcyclist who came at a high speed in from the right. The driver was therefore too late to know that the queue was slowing down. He drove into the car in front. A passenger was killed. The driver was convicted of negligent killing. Professor Dr. Juris Johs. Andenæs writes about the judgment in his book «Punishment as a Problem», on pages 90-91: ‘Even if the driver made a mistake, I have’...’difficult to see that some subjective reproach can be directed against him. The reason for the wrong driving and the fatal accident was simply that he was not a good enough driver.» In St. Report. No 23 for 1991-92 On the fight against crime, the then government on page 121 stated that in 1988 the amendment of the law might have led to the commuting being ‘swinged a little far in these cases, so that even the slightest inattentiveness of a driver may lead to prosecution and judgment for negligent killing’. It also stated that it would be ‘up to the Advocate General to decide on such an adjustment’ in the first place. These views were endorsed by the Judicial Committee. In a letter to the Ministry in July 1996, the Advocate General stated that the Public Prosecutor should not take responsibility for and direct such a change of course. By letter of 2 March 1998 to the State Attorney General, the Ministry stated that practice may seem to have been adjusting. In particular, the Ministry referred to a 1997 Supreme Court judgment — Justice 1997, p. 1764 — where the Supreme Court lifted a court-martialled sentence for negligent killing in a traffic case. The accident occurred in a crossroads where the court had to give way to the right rule. He wrongly perceived the behaviour of the other driver so that he gave up his right to drive. In the past, the Supreme Court has stated that the removal obligation is absolute – Rechtstidende 1963, p. 890 – but thought in the present case that there could be an exception. Judicial grounds were not sufficient to take a stand on the application of the law. But the Supreme Court said: ‘The case of negligent killing represents a serious characterisation of the action by society. It is therefore necessary to provide a detailed description of the facts on which the judgment is based in such a way that the appeal court has a sound basis for review of the application of the law.’.» In the letter to the national lawyer, the Ministry stated that, in comparison with previous practice, 1990, p. 1021 – If the man who was too observant on the motorcyclist coming from the right, it may seem that the Supreme Court is adjusting its practice. In the view of the Department, further practice of the Supreme Court should therefore be considered before any possible action for legislative change is considered. In March 1998, the National Attorney General sent a letter of negligent killing in traffic matters to all the State Attorney's offices. These include: the 1997 judgment and a letter from the Department. In the future, the National Advocate-General also asks the State Advocates to pay particular attention to legal developments in this area. When we look at the situation today, after I have explained this historical background of developments and the documents available, I will say the following: in my view, it is not desirable initially to specify criteria in the law for when the court is to judge for negligent killing in traffic. The question of where the boundary should go is highly discretionary. Most of the time, the basis for the decision will be best if the right can freely involve all relevant elements, without being bound by too strict guidelines in the law. Therefore, more detailed regulation should only take place if strictly necessary. The criminal justice system must give clear signals of the great responsibility of drivers. But I agree with those who have claimed that practice after the 1988 amendment was too strict. It is not reasonable that even the slightest negligence should lead to the conviction of negligent killing. Both the Supreme Court and the State Attorney have given signals that practices are being adjusted, so that more is needed to condemn negligently killing now than in the years following the 1988 Act. This is a proper development. Against this background, I believe that no legislative changes should now be made with a view to further adjusting practices. But the ministry will keep the issue under observation, and will do so also in the light of the debate we have today. If it turns out that practice still does not find the right balance point, I will come back to the question of law change after I have reviewed it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e307	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which well meets what I was looking for, namely to get the assessment that has now been given to us. It's quite right as it's said with a quotation from the Supreme Court: ‘The case of negligent killing represents a serious characterisation of actions by society.’ It's not just a serious characteristic. It is perceived as a stamp for humans in such a way that it can take the will of life and the spirit of life from them. In particular, it's about people, as I've pointed out earlier, who don't break speed limits, drive in an intoxicated state, or commit serious crimes of a different nature. It is based on the assumptions of the legislator, the practice of the prosecution authority and the understanding of the reality of the general public that I reported this interview to the Minister of Justice. It's quite right that we'll be here all the time in areas of discretion. We don't want to get there that we have a finished phase that we can look up in. It will always be necessary to assess the individual case. But it is problematic when people who are otherwise law-abiding, by what we term in everyday speech as an ‘injury’, even know, as it says in the law of the law to which I referred, one second's inattentiveness, receives a stamp on themselves through charges that take place in relation to § 239. Then it's problematic. In the future, I think it'll be important that you're even more reluctant to use this law clause. I am aware of what the Council of State said about this, that one seems to have reversed the use of the law paragraph in relation to the previous one. So it happened at the latest a month ago in Agder Law of Law that you were convicted of this. I hope that today's debate will also clarify what the other representatives think about this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e323	The rationale for this interpellation has been very well explained by the interpellant and also by what the Council of State said, so it is not necessary to go into it further. It is said that big business politicians should be careful about getting involved in individual matters, and when we do, we must at least be very careful about how we do it. But what we're not going to lose sight of is that every application of a law at the other end has individuals and individual creatures. Nor should we lose sight of how this works in practice, as when we clearly see in this case that the sum of some individual things does not give the picture of the situation that the Storting itself wanted. I think there is reason to call a little warning about what is behind the interpellation today. There have been tragedies and personal crises for many who have been involved. There are cases where Finn Kristian Marthinsen was also involved, where close relatives are victims and perpetrators. I feel that part of the issues in which a person is convicted here also runs counter to people's sense of justice. Int. S. No 192 for 1991-92 says a total of justice that ‘not any inattentiveness on the part of the driver leading to an accident involving death shall result in prosecution in accordance with the provisions of the Criminal Code on negligent killing’. The Committee also stresses that ‘this has not been the intention of the legislator either’. The conclusion at the time was that there was no need to change the law. Now seven-eight years have passed since then, and there is a lot of evidence that the prosecutions have not brought this in line with the Stortinge's intention. Now I heard the conclusion of the Council of State, which was not going to go into any legal adjustment or change in the law now, but still to follow developments to see if the course is adjusted. From the Labour Party's side, I would like to signal that if the Council of State and the Department find it necessary to go in and legislate, we are now even set to go so far. They have the full support of the Workers' Party. I would like to say in this connection when there has been so much talk about the pendulum here today, that I am also of the opinion that the pendulum does not have to swing all the way back again. Of course, there are still cases where the law is to be applied in relation to negligence in traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e343	There must be no doubt that negligence, not least in the case of driving, must be punished and severely punished in the interests of the victims and the relatives and in order to prevent negligent behaviour. There's no excuse for a drunk driving and killing other people. But that is not what this debate is about. This debate is about how to define the concept of negligent. I was sent a case from a lawyer, where a car driver was convicted of negligent killing during reversing. He had first left the van, carefully checked that there were no people in the vicinity of the car, sat behind the steering wheel, checked in all the mirrors and began to return very slowly and gently out of the parking space. In the meantime, a person had entered the dead end, and he was driven down. The city court acquitted this person with the vote of the two judges, while the professional judge sought judgment. The Supreme Court set the acquittal aside. The second time the case was in court, the exact same thing happened: the bodies acquitted, the professional wanted a verdict. For the second time, the Supreme Court set aside the judgment. The third time in the city court, he was convicted because this time the professional was able to bring one of the estates. The question then is, are we not faced with a collision between popular common sense and judgment and legal reason? Should not the concept of carelessness be based on different and less prudent behaviours than the usual norms in society should be, and how everyone else acts, rather than on ideal desktop theories? For this law, as it has been interpreted, obviously has ideal requirements as a starting point. It's just that there are no superhumans. Superman is an upbuilt size for a desktop. All people have to blink, all of us get tired, and it's impossible for some of us to be 100 pst. active 100 pst. of time, even if an ideal set of things should be. There may be an accident, and it can happen to absolutely everyone, including all of them in this room. It is therefore unreasonable — and contrary to common sense — to risk being imprisoned with hard-skinned criminals and to take that burden at the top of the enormous burden of having caused injury or death to other people by accident. I do not know how the law should be amended or what legal terms should be used. But I think it is necessary for policymakers as legislators to give this signal – which comes from all parties today, after what I have the impression – that normal behaviour should be taken into account and not the ideal requirements, which cannot be followed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e356	The interpellant has raised an important question. Most of us have a relationship with a car, in the sense that most of us are users of a car. I think it's an underlying premise in a lot of the debate that in reflective moments we're aware that if we're unhappy one day, we can end up in a very serious situation as drivers. Now it's not like, as has been said several times here, that any negligence should lead to prosecution. But I think it's very difficult as politicians to give clear leadership about when it should lead to prosecution, and when it shouldn't lead to prosecution. Inattentiveness for a second, said the interpellant. Yes, carelessness for a second lasts for a lot, if the accident is out. 1/10 seconds can be enough, so if we're going to measure the care of the clock, it's also going to be a difficult situation. A three-year-old who fell off a tractor – I like to admit that I have driven a tractor with my grandchildren on. I will never claim – not even to myself – that it is particularly considerate, but that the seriousness of it is that I hope to sharpen myself in such situations. If I didn't believe it, I'll have to leave it. I wish that this relationship we have with the car does not mean that we in our subconsciousness treat the car differently from other ‘dangerous’ – I want to use that word – tools. Car is a serious means of making progress, but there are few of the blessings of modern technology that we are willing to forgive as much damage, including on people, as the car. But to be concrete, I can't see that we should have other care requirements for the use of a car than what we, for example. In order to take up a theme where the Council of State and I regularly share experiences, there is a need to address the use of a rifle. That's why I want to say it this way, in a case that I really don't think it's easy to have a certain opinion about, that I'm essentially joining the Council of State's reasoning, and I think this case is suitable for handling in the courts within the law we have.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e365	I think that there might be reason, in the light of both the interpellation, the response of the Council of State and a little bit of the debate, to remember something that might be a bit trivial, namely that both legislation and the application of justice are difficult. It may also be useful to remind you a little about the division of labour between legislators and courts, that the legislator's task is to give the general rules, the general standards, and then it is up to the courts to apply these rules. There may be reason for a little concern about the need for legislation to be careful, to use a word that has gone back in the debate here today, and to be careful about the consequences and signals that you give through changes in the law. There was probably a deliberate thought behind the change in the law in 1988, which I believe in itself is reason to point out as correct, namely that it was an essential point to highlight that a car is a particularly dangerous tool, in many ways in line with firearms, which the representative Hernæs drew out. And I guess we're told that the legislator wanted to come up with the amendment of the law, one has managed in many ways, namely to get a focus on and a stronger emphasis on the car – it's usually it, although there may be other motor vehicles – as a dangerous tool. The issue related to today's debate may be: are you going to hear well? In other words, did the courts take too much of the consequences of what the Storting would say? Or is the situation that the Storting was heard in a way, but not without a doubt likes the outcome of what was heard? I share the views of most of those who have been on the road here, that there may be cause for some adjustment in itself, and I think that the approach and attitude of the Council of State is comprehensive for mine at this point in time. But what's a little bit of the problem is that we have negligence in two different laws, road traffic law and criminal law, and then we have a very clear view, it might seem that, that this should actually have a little different meaning – one uses in the debate here the concept of gross negligence, and that's actually not what the penal law says, § 239, because it says, "Observance". That's probably some of the problems. Finally, I'm not sure if I want to give the prosecution authority and the attorney general the role that some people here have. The Advocate General shall deal with law and case law and shall, where appropriate, seek to influence it, but shall, to a limited extent, take guidelines from the Grand Duchy other than through legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e378	I think it's been interesting to notice the posts that have been held, and that largely support the view that it's dangerous when in our society we get a collision between people's normal sense of justice with regard to what is a killing, and what can be an accident. I think it's important that we don't put these two things in the same booth in a way that creates ambiguity. It is also about those people or individuals – because it is quite right that the representative Rasmussen expressed that every law is about individuals – should not be fought in hardcore with me having almost ordinary offenders who commit murder. I am aware of the difference between an negligent and a deliberately misguided action, but I would like to encourage the Minister of Justice, as he himself has stated, to follow these cases and see if there is a case law that is now adjusting in accordance with the legislator's statement when the changes took place in 1988, and what was subsequently reacted to when the case was brought up again in connection with St.meld. No 23 for 1991-1992. The minister has promised to keep the issue under observation, and I appreciate that. I believe that this is not only important for big business representatives, but that it is also essential for people around our country. Of course, we are all fully aware, as the representative Hernæs said, that the car can be a dangerous tool, but it is just that it can then get a stamp on it in such a way that you should rather not use it. The Minister of Justice may represent a party that would see it as an environmental gain, but I don't see it as a big point in this context. The car has come to stay, and we use it in a reasonable way – without risking becoming a killer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e387	The interesting thing is that this Minister of Justice has also been Minister of Transport, and as Minister of Transport, I listened to many and serious speeches about the number of accidents in traffic — and that this number was increasing. And there was a broad cross-political consensus in this room that it was so serious that the authorities had to assess most of the instruments. There's one back cover in this case. The second back ground in this case is the legal development and history discussed in the interpellation. At this point of intersection, it's not just that the courts have to find a point of balance, it has to be a point of balance of opinion as well. What's agreed here is that when you tightened up the course in time, there's a lot of evidence that you tightened in too much. And then the central question is, how do you find the balance? It's e.g. negligent if you are driving too fast or in an intoxicated state or are committing other serious offences. But what is the sum of other gross offenses? Without drawing parallels to this application of law, the same dilemma exists for the transport authorities when, under the dot load system, they distinguish between what is small and what is large. That's what you're working on. I think it is quite important in terms of the clarification that will be made in relation to road traffic loads – without any connection with the provisions we are talking about today – that this job is done. At the same time, I am prepared to find the balance points, so that it is not that any negligence, to put it this way, should lead to judgment. But when I say I'll follow this, I'll follow it. And I have two mirrors with me. I have one mirror that the representatives in the room today have talked about, that there is something else to be taken for this. Then I have the second mirror, which is also part of the legal state of society, that society wants road safety. And then, of course, it's like this, just to confirm it, that the car is a necessary good in this country, of course. But it's like everyone benefits something that brings responsibility. This is often the case, as I heard some comments, that you should not be beaten in hard grain with a common criminal. But the point is, as far as the law is concerned, that some and each of us can occasionally be beaten into hard grain with others. This Minister of Justice was in his time fined for civil disobedience and was then beaten into harrows with others. I did something wrong and had to make up for it, of course. And that's what's the whole point. But I understand the opinions of representatives who express themselves, that a critical assessment of what is happening is to be made. You don't have to risk, as they're given examples, that everyone gets convicted no matter what he's done. This balance point I have said that I will follow on the basis of case law, the post I made and the debate today, and I will not follow it passively. I have intended to listen actively to it, but I have to talk directly to Stortingen about what two intersections lie there – which I also think the representatives individually got along in a tidy way. An example is the representative Simonsen who said, "I don't know how to do this, but now let's see how to put what's normal." I heard the article, and I have heard other people's articles about this and take it with me in my further work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e402	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e415	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 10 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be a possibility of changing lines of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers from each party group and from the parliamentary leaders, as well as five lines with replies from members of the Government. In addition, it is suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to three minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e426	The reason why Stortinget again has the case of setting up an IT centre on the agenda is that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party do not have sufficient confidence in Sponheim's handling of the case. The proposal by the representatives of Opseth, Rudihagen, Knudsen and Hedstrom presented in Document No. 8:58 for 1998-99, as a consequence, the decision of the Grand Duchy of Great Britain of 25 February 1999 to release the Government by 1 June 1999 at the latest. designate the company to be involved with the State in the development of Fornebu. According to the wording of the proposal, the majority would take over the proceedings. The Council of State has stated that he may appoint the company by 1 June, if necessary. However, as time has passed, the proposers have softened somewhat, but they maintain the position that the Government should be deprived of the decision-making authority in the case. Yes, it is actually only the Right in today's position that maintains the position of having the Government designate the company with which it will cooperate. In contrast to the government parties, it became increasingly clear to me that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party should at least not designate the company to participate in the development of Fornebu. The history of this case gives me no idea at all that it would be right to put the I.T. goats to look after the oat sack on Fornebu. However, the Labour Party and the Advance Party would be in control of this case, and they have been dealt with by the Committee and as indicated in the referral. In fact, the government parties are involved in depriving the Government of the decision-making authority on who will become a partner with the State. But what about the history of this matter that has given the government parties the idea that Stortinget – read: The Labour Party and the Advance Party – will be better suited than the Government to appoint the partner? It's unclear to me, but that it's due to factual, well-founded arguments, I have a very difficult time believing. At least I haven't heard them now. The rapporteurs do not therefore have the necessary confidence in Sponheim and promote a proposal for the following premise, quoted from Document No. The 8th proposal: ‘The Minister of Economic Affairs therefore chooses not to follow the Stortinget’s decision and the Greater Majority’s clarifications. Against this background, it is necessary for the Storting to have control, through its own treatment, that the Storting has been used as a basis for the selection of cooperating companies and other implementations.’ I read first and foremost the involvement of the proposers in this matter as an commitment to a special solution to the main issue, namely, who should be responsible for Norway's most attractive land. The whole history of this matter is a style study of how the Norwegian political spirit can succeed in lobbying if you only have the resources to do it. In this case, even one of the competing providers has been a consultant for changing worker party governments. However, what is very gratifying in the case is that the majority of the previous crossroads were forced to extend the period from 1 April to 1 June for the purpose of obtaining alternative tenders. This has obviously led to at least three tenders which individually satisfy all the requirements of the Department, both in terms of professional content and financial weight, to be able to carry out the project itself. I have understood it so that they individually meet the requirements that have been set. However, in the setting, the Workers' Party and the Advance Party have some comments and instructions to the Government that, at my discretion, at this point in the process, seem strange. I have asked myself the natural question: Why should the tenderers who individually can carry out the assignment join together? I'm going to be careful to ask the question, and then the individual gets to do his own analysis. It is the following wording in the statement I am aiming for: ‘The majority had seen it highly desirable to have a pool of several stakeholders in one company.’ The government is further instructed in the further negotiations to discuss with the operators the possibility of getting more people to work together to solve the problem. It may seem that there is an IT cooperative of international importance for Jagland and Hagen to establish at Fornebu. I would strongly warn against such a strategy. Competition between actors I think is crucial for the state to get the most out of its values now initially and perhaps even more so in order to secure the values in the longer term. It is not a politically run-up IT Elephant we need, but a variety of independent companies and entrepreneurs who are willing to invest their own money, not just initiators and politicians who are primarily going to bet taxpayers' money. When the Stortinget held a debate on this matter on 25 February 1999, it was the area that it was talking about, beyond 500 dekars. It was the value of this area of alleged buildings that was to be the State's share of the share capital of the company to be established. It is clear from the joint text drawn up by the Labour Party and the Progress Party in Innst. S. No 99 for 1998-99, which we discussed in February. However, the Spøtvoll range concluded that 270 dekar would be sufficient. In that case, it would halve the amount of capital to be included in the capital by the State, as it was the value of land and buildings that would be the State's share. It is very gratifying, in the Right's view, that the government here opens up to sell out approx. half of the 270 covers forming the entire centre and it will be sold on the open market. If Sponheim gets his will through – he'll get it in the proposition that comes, but I'm more excited about the treatment it gets here in the house – it'll have the consequence that we'll get a less state-owned economic exposure, which will be completely in line with the government parties and the Right's primary position regarding how this case should have been handled. Our starting point has been and is that the state should sell the area in the usual way to the one who will pay the most in relation to the purpose that the seller – i.e. the state – and the regulatory authorities specify. A state-owned exposure of which we now see the outlines cannot be said to be in line with this government's policy in this area. The ownership message, which we dealt with earlier in this session, provides completely different recipes. Therefore, the Government’s position was quite different in terms of state ownership in an IT centre at Fornebu. However, when it comes to an establishment which requires a massive state ownership exposure, the issue of whether the Government should use stronger instruments to stop this idea is the issue. After all, we're talking about state ownership in the largest growth industry. It is in my opinion entirely different areas that should call for our interest to initiate business in this country, than in the world's leading growth industry on Norway's most expensive land. The procedure we have had in this case – and I believe it is right back from 1994 until today – also has elements in it that help to make the role-sharing between accumulation and government unclear. I do not think our parliamentary and political system should have too many things of this kind. On the one hand, I can understand a government that wants to survive any situation in Stortinget. It is important, however, that we do not develop a parliamentaryism in which one almost assumes that the Government is a willless tool for a shifting number of population. Let's make sure that it's not the journey that's the goal, but that the journey is necessary to achieve the goal. The very few of them we're going to try to care for will enjoy such a development.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e460	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e463	There are many things and moments in the rapporteur's articles that I might want to grasp, but that does not allow time. In any case, the case rapporteur should have a reputation for one thing: he and the Right have been consistent in this matter. They have consistently opposed state participation in the IT and knowledge centre, while we have understood that in order to develop businesses in Norway and get investors, entrepreneurs and industrialists to invest in capital, it is not wrong, especially in terms of research, education and further education, that the state contributes something. That's exactly what happens all over the industrialized world. In the case of knowledge centres that have developed competitiveness, the State has contributed both as a facilitator and as a demanding customer. This has happened in Austin, Texas, Silicon Valley, and a number of other IT and knowledge centers. But the Right has marked itself as a strong opponent of this, despite the fact that Norwegian founder capital disappears out of the country with the prevailing framework conditions we have. I would like to ask the case rapporteur, Mr Gabrielsen: What are the real options of the Right in today’s situation – I know the Right Programme and the primary position – in order to realise an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu, which we all agree to realise?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e472	I thank the representative Hedstrom for the initial flower that at least the Right has been consistent. It has been the Right and it has been the Workers' Party, on each of its edges. The government parties and the Progress Party have waved a little back and forth as things have evolved. So ask Hedstrom, what do you do to get them to invest capital? One thing I'm sure of at least, and that's that the companies that have now submitted offers to join Fornebu are more than well enough able to take all that ownership themselves. Yes, some of them have such a large capital base that they could build roofs all over Fornebu if they wanted it. The administrative capital held by the companies does not need to be used by the State to generate billions. They'll do that on commercial terms. I'm not in doubt about that. After all, we're talking about the biggest industrial groups in Norway, we're talking about the largest insurance companies, not about the biggest buyers. I feel convinced that no matter what the state had decided to set up at Fornebu, we would be able to sell the plots at good prices. We would get investors who were willing to use their own funds to do this. I don't read the engagement to Hedstrøm and Hagen, or, for that matter, Opseth and Jagland, as an engagement to make sure that something is happening at all out there. I'm sure there's other things under there. What does the Right intend to do in relation to the situation we are in that businesses disappear out of the country? It is true that in the Business Committee the Right Party and the Advance Party and, in part, the Government Parties together have put forward an alternative strategy based on the ownership message that we had been discussing a long time ago. If we had followed that recipe in this case too, I think we actually got to the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e481	In this case, the issue of the establishment of an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu has also gone high in previous circumstances. They've just said that they want such a center, but never saw quite how they could imagine such a center realized. At the same time, they have used almost all the possibilities to argue against the scheme for the majority of population. In the previous debate here, it was not, in fact, free that a harebled some of the unrealistic vision that the majority of people had taken for granted. Gabrielsen also went quite far in an insinuation to mystify the whole process, but he did not document anything. Since the 1997 budgetary procedure, the majority of the population has been clearly responsible for the same in all rounds in the United Kingdom. We have said that stakeholders had to submit a holistic plan that showed that they were able to develop a centre with the plans that Stortinget had put in. A large enough land area for an international impact centre to be set aside. The terminal building was to be put into service through a lease, etc. We're assuming that Gabrielsen knows about the ropes that have been between the great majority and the government. And I have to ask: does not the representative Gabrielsen, regardless of the view he has, mean that it is the great majority's view that must be followed, either the majority of the population has a different view than the representative Gabrielsen, or it is in line with what Gabrielsen sees, and that it is then the Stortinge's duty to make sure that it is implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e490	First to what the Right has thought about what should be established on Fornebu. The last time we dealt with this matter, on 25 February this year, in the light of Innst. S. No 99 for 1998-99 for St.meld. No 13 joined the Government Parties and the Right to the recommendations on what should be the country's involvement: 8 000 m2 were to be set aside in the Terminal Building, there was State involvement in the so-called incubator business, etc., but not on the owner's side of the companies that would be responsible for this. So to this that's kind of the raisin in the sausage: shouldn't the Storting have the right to make sure that the big crowd's view is implemented? Of course, there's a majority of the Biggest to do what's necessary for that to happen. It is the way our parliamentary practice is that we have certain methods, to put it that way, to implement it. The method described in the proposal as Mr. Rudihagen and three others have promoted, are very special, not to say quite unique historically – that we should almost take over the proceedings. Now there have been several oral versions of what the proposal involves, a little depending on whether you've heard Rudihagen, Hedstrom, Hagen or Jagland. It's varied a little bit. Therefore, this is wisely parked in this setting that we now have in front of us. What might have been more honest, was short and good to say: If Sponheim does not do what he is asked to do within a short period of time, you will do what is necessary in relation to a councillor who does not do what he is told to do, and does not do such curvatures as you have done here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e499	The representative Ansgar Gabrielsen is very concerned that point 1 of the decision in Innst. S. No 99 from February this year has been deleted. Now I have nothing against the fact that at least this government has great powers, but I find it strange that Right now it seems that it is a disaster that the decision from February is set aside. The right then voted against the whole decision in February, and so did the Left and Center parties and the Christian People's Party. We then thought, as now, that this imposed on partners to point out in such a large matter with such a short deadline, was inconvenient. That's what we're still talking about. Is right now for what they voted against in February? The Christian People's Party is content to have reasonable time, and that Document No. 8:58 now is gone and forgotten. I would also like to remind you of the definition of ‘art of the possible’ policy. In this case, the art is practiced and the possibilities are now legio.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e506	With all due respect for the ability of the government parties to develop art – I find it difficult to find some of it in the setting that we have before us, and in the sense that was played out to the situation that has led to this debate. I can't really get the credit that the art skills have been very overwhelming. I have never doubted the fact that the government was going to carry out the selection of the company that would do this job. I understood Apelthun's seal right now, it had never been intended that the government should do this. There must be evidence of inadequacy with regard to internal reading, for it is quite clear from the original decision of 25 February that reference is made to: ‘The decision asks the Government to implement the following: 1st@item: inlistbox Soonerest and before 1 June 1999 which company is to be entrusted with the development and implementation of the IT and knowledge centre plans at Fornebu.» At the hearing in the committee we were confirmed by the Council of State that he was able to do so, if necessary. I can't see that there will be any divergence as to what you might have thought on February 25 about who would perform the selection. I have to say that everything that has happened in retrospect, and perhaps not least before February 1999, suggests that that authority to make the selection should remain with the Government. As I said, I'm skeptical about putting the goat to fit the oat sack. I feel it becomes the situation if it is the Progress Party and the Workers' Party that are to appoint the company. When we look at the commitment they have had, and what has been done both officially and unofficially, I think that such a position would be relatively safe.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e522	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e526	The debate on Document No. 8:58 is a debate that one can lead along two themes. First, one can do this as a debate on the division of labour between maggots and governments. Secondly, there may be good reasons for making this a debate on what information technology and knowledge centre you want at Fornebu, how important it is for us to be closed down at Fornebu and how important this is for the creation of value and therefore the well-being of the decades to come. I'm going to focus on the first approach. It has been strongly stated by both the representatives of the public and the media that Document No. 8:58 is a big business. The proposal has only one purpose: to help the Stortinget implement its decisions. What parliamentary conditions would we have in this country if different governments could set aside major decisions? In this case, we have been documented in writing that the specialist council has tried to overtest the Stortinget's own interpretation of the decision. In the Norwegian parliamentary system, we have had no systematic control over the compliance of Stortinget with its decisions. The Presidency has seen this on the agenda, and the Stortinget has joined in the handling of the Innst. S. No 168 for 1998-99, including name: ‘All decisions of reality taken by the Storting are binding on the Government. The vast majority of decisions bind the government directly." And it goes on to say, "The decision that has the form of "The Great Government..." is almost never initiated by the government. Many such decisions are made against the votes of the parties behind the government, but some are made unanimous. Such decisions shall also be binding on the Government.’;» The IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu has been discussed in Stortinget a number of times. I should just like to focus my full attention on what has happened since the handling of St.meld. No 38 for 1997-98 and Innst. S. No 232 for 1997-98. Through the suspension and debate, the Government was empowered to continue its work on establishing an IT and knowledge centre of international format at Fornebu. However, the size added clear formulations about the goal one should have for this work, and what content the centre should have. Inner. S. No 232 were dealt with in the Stortinget on 15 June 1998. In November of the same year, the Government issued a new high-end message, St. ermeld. No 13 for 1998-99, the second for six months. The Storting Message has the title ‘Single remaining issues related to the establishment of the IT Centre at Fornebu’. One should not read many lines until one could draw the clear conclusion that the message was a hit on the Inn. S. No 232, as the Storing handled, as said before, half a year ago. Of course, the government has the power to re-test its view of Stortinget. In particular, it was probably because the Labour Party and the government party were behind the Inner East. S. No 232 and the Decision of 15 June 1998. When the Government countered the Storting, the Government and the State Council must be told that the result may be a more concrete decision in return. That's what happened. The Input Manager S. No 99 for 1998-99 on 25 February led to a much smaller area of action for the Government. However, there was reason to expect that the government would follow up the majority of the population. That's not what happened. This is reason to note, for the Council of State and everyone else who followed the debate on 25 February, could have no doubt that the majority was serious. Personally, I expressed that I wanted to follow the work on eagle eyes. Of course, the department has the right to set down the Spjøtvoll selection, even if it has passed with precious time. The requirements and guidelines of 8 April 1999 which were to be the basis material for the providers were strangely based on the Søtvoll selection as much as the Stortinget's decisions and settings. The parties that made up the plural said that the requirements and guidelines at several points were not consistent with their views of the plural. Others did. The representative, Gabrielsen, spoke for the matter we are discussing today, also meant that. He said the following to Today's Business on April 10, 1999: ‘This can hardly be said to be directly in line with the large number said.’ Of course, the Storting majority could choose to let matters go their own way, and take a statement when it came back to Storting in some form. The result could be delays and perhaps new wide-ranging assessments of the choice of providers. The majority, however, by a letter of 14 April, chose to draw the attention of the Council of State to the fact that requirements and guidelines were not in line with the Stortinge’s intentions, and to call for some points to be changed. It mattered greatly that the Council of State chose to stand firm in its view. State Council Sponheim concluded its letter of 23 April as follows: ‘On this basis, I consider that there is no basis for making changes to the requirements and guidelines.’ It cannot be interpreted at any other time than that the Stortinget's own understanding of what the decision contains was tried by the ministry. Document No 8:58 It was the only instrument that was said that the Great One would make his will come true. Document No 8: 58 has had his demise and may be annexed to the Minutes. The government will now base its plans on further work. The committee's letter of 26 May and the ministry's reply of the same date make this perfectly clear. The size will, however, also in the further work ensure that the Stortinge's view is followed up. I'm referring to the setting we're discussing today, and to the recommendations we're making there. Since the government party is now also behind the proposals, I believe that the matter will now be resolved in accordance with the Stortinget's vision. But I can assure the State Council, Sponheim, that in time too, we will follow closely what is happening in this matter. Prehistory makes it all the more necessary. It is important that we get a good solution when it comes to establishing an IT and knowledge centre of international format at Fornebu, not least for the value creation and welfare of the country in the next millennium. I hope we can now lay the foundation for a good and close cooperation between the Government and the Government Party and the two largest opposition parties in the Stortinget. It could be a very ridiculous solution. Then I have to tell the representative Gabrielsen to announce the call we have made when it comes to having a stronger environment, both industrial and financial, behind an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu: Yes, it's honestly meant, but I'm perfectly clear that this is something that a little bit of collapse or government can force on the private players. They must see it first. I would really like them to do so, precisely because of the impact this has on the country's future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e572	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e575	Point 1 of the Decision of 25 February is now repealed. The deadline for the decision, before 1 June, has been replaced by the fact that the Storting is briefed before the summer holiday and that one negotiates further with three or more actors. That's good. But there are several points in the February decision. Point 5 states that teaching should start in the autumn of 1999. Due to today's decision, partners will not be pointing out until the fall. It's reasonable backwards to start teaching without partnering being pointed out and contracts are in order. Can the representative, Opseth, confirm that the other points, then specifically paragraph 5, are also verified and lifted in this case? It's fun, as Opseth quit, when the negligent solutions may exist, and that's what we want, but the trust has probably not been at the very top of this case, and so I ask this question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e584	There should be no doubt in anyone's mind that the Labour Party thinks it's urgent to set up an IT and knowledge centre of international format. But we have to do this in a defensive way. When we are in the situation that the valuation of the country's property on Fornebu has not been started in accordance with EEA legislation, it would be completely irresponsible to choose an actor before 1 June. That is the only reason we leave 1 June as a deadline. Otherwise, the whole thing could be postponed not only for a few months, but maybe nine and maybe twelve months, yes for that matter over the year. We can't do that and take responsibility for it. So to which decision has been revoked. So 1 June, we didn't count because there's no lead price. But there is no particular doubt that the Labour Party wants us to get started in the Terminal Building as soon as possible. Together with the government party, we have now seen the deadline for a roll-out proposal to 1 October. It is clear that then there is not so much to be done again of this year, and the school year has started. But I sincerely hope there's a deal between the Labour Party and the Government Party that it's urgent to get started, and that one now doesn't use this postponement, which has given rise to the valuation, to expose others who have to do with the establishment of the Knowledge Centre. That would be very unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e591	The representative, Opseth, felt reassured that the Government now, on the basis of the letter that came to the Committee after the Committee had asked some questions, would base the Storting's assumptions. This may indicate that, if Opseth’s statement is correct, there must have been a change of attitude at the Council of State and Government parties. And that is to the extent that there is every reason to believe that it is, because when you read the letter of reply sent by the Council of State, a few impressions may be that there is a Council of State that with the retention pen initiates its four answers with a yes – yes, yes, yes, yes. He has followed this with your speech being yes, yes, and no, no. But there's something else I really want to ask Opseth about. In the original visions that have led the whole thing, it has been suggested an area need of 540 days, as far as I am concerned. It is also the case that the land and buildings were to be included as the country's share in the share capital. However, the Spjøtvoll committee has halved what they consider to be the need, to approx. 270 days. In the documents sent from Sponheim to the tenderers, 125 days have been taken out of this area of 270 days to be sold on the open market, and probably to those who will pay the most. This will definitely affect the values of the country that are included in this company, and there will be a reduction in some – perhaps by a quarter of the visions that have been taken into account. Is there a two-fold halving in line with the view of the Workers' Party on what should be included in State capital in this joint company?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e598	I would like to agree with the representative Gabrielsen when it relates to the government's attitude to the issues on which it has been discussed in connection with demands and guidelines, and count it to be out of the world. But I'd like to add that the providers that have signed up, at the most important points, have put their commitments on the Storting, so it might not cost so much for the Council of State in retrospect to go on that particular point. So to the visions of area. We have always claimed that we want an IT and knowledge center of international format that allows us to stop a part of the IT flight and rather attract something to us. But we have left to those who are going to be actors with the state, to define what they think is necessary to build such an IT and knowledge centre – in recognition that we should not go into all the details of the case, something that Gabrielsen has stressed several times. It is important that those who are going to bet their funds on this get a word in the layer. We've said that when the actor is pointed out, it has to negotiate with this one about the area. But I'm still of the opinion that there needs to be a certain area out there so that this could become a powerful IT and knowledge center of the format that we see some other countries have built and that some countries are building up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e605	I'm not going to ask Kjell Opseth whether he as the Council of State had found himself in such a handling of a matter on the part of Stortinget, or whether he shares some strange view of Jagland that this is a defence of parliamentaryism. I just record that neither the majority – the Labour Party and the Advance Party – nor the Government has the courage to stand on what they really think is right in this matter, and I regret that, because they are weaving us into the matter in a way that makes it impossible to get out of it. And then I come to my question. It is about how to develop IT, competence, education and research in Norway, both in the school system and in enterprises. There is no support from either industry or educational and research environments for the idea of IT Fornebu. On the contrary, they believe that the establishment will rather work against its purpose in relation to what we need. Why is the Workers' Party totally uninterested and ignoring these recordings from the competent environments that do not want this solution? Should they be forced into this cooperation? Wouldn't it have been better to listen to them? And does Opseth believe that IT Fornebu is the only possible way to ensure a forward-looking investment in IT, research and education in Norway? Are there really no other methods to use — e.g. if we had realized the values that lie in Fornebu, traded them at the highest market price and spent the money in established institutions from primary school and all the way up? Could it not have given a decentralised bet that would have been much more forward-looking than the one we're getting now?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e612	To take the last one first. If the plots at Fornebu are as valuable as they are said, so valuable that private operators are almost in line to enter and join in and develop this land, why should not the state be involved in and invest and perhaps entertain the gain that this brings? If this is the case that Municipal Councillor Plan 2 for Bærum is attached with the degree of utilisation that lies there, I will almost say that it is completely wrong to sell the area today. So to the question of this is the right thing to bet on. Yes, it is at least certain that until this day we have not been closed by having a scheme that makes it possible to raise ideas for services or products. Risk capital is not enough to do just that. By bringing together education, research and business in one place, with strong, private actors behind this company, it is clear that there will be a guarantee that one will also get capital to raise the good ideas to something that people need and that people want to buy. This is the background to what we see both in our neighbouring countries and elsewhere in Europe – but it should not work in Norway. There is no conflict between the central and the local elements in this, rather the crossroads.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e619	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e622	The Progress Party is pleased that there is a broad majority in the position that has agreed on a common political solution. It is good for a project of the dimensions and the duration of this matter is really about. Opinion of the Committee on Document No The eight proposals discussed by the Storting are that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes. That makes sense and is right in the situation that has occurred. Some of the intention to set deadlines has been to get the government to make progress in the matter and follow it up in an acceptable way. Then it may be necessary to put things at the forefront to get the process started and get the matter over with. We have come to where we should have been a long time ago. I find reason to stress that the matter has been characterised by difficult circumstances and that valuable time has been lost. The majority have repeatedly underlined the importance of speeding up the process, and the longer the time goes on, the greater the risk of smart IT heads and capital leaving the country. The danger is imminent for Norway to come into behind, with its negative consequences for value creation and well-being. Countries such as Israel and Ireland have had great success in their industrial development in high-tech areas. In Denmark and Sweden, Øresund is being developed as a magnet for innovation in information and biotechnology, which can extract Norwegian professional environments from the country. Norway’s distance from Europe can be reinforced if it does not have an adequate development environment in place while there is still time. With the decisions taken today, we will have a contribution to get the process on track, even though it has been wasted a lot of time, as we see it. No one's earned that the after-use of Fornebu should look like an eternal American soap opera. The progress party now expects the matter to go well, even if the deadlines are shifted. The majority have said that the value of the land and buildings of the country is determined by tariff, according to EEA legislation. Unfortunately, the Government has not initiated this assessment which was expressed to be carried out and which it would have been possible to hold after the handling of the supplementary notification by the Stortinge on 25 February of this year. The Committee is now consulted on a proposal for this valuation to be carried out as soon as possible. The situation also requires fair treatment for the seven operators. It is then necessary to provide for a sound and serious procedure for the benefit of stakeholders, and it takes some time. A large majority have now gathered on proposals that I would almost characterise as a national effort to create a basis for innovation in business. This is important at a time when society is in transition and where the income base we have had will not have the same meaning in the future. The main reason for the party to be in favour of an IT and knowledge centre of international importance is that we need more value creation in mainland Norway. We need more legs to stand on, and we have to get out of the commodity clamp. Norway is an energy nation with a highly commodity-dependent business. Export products are largely standard products traded in highly fluctuating global markets. Knowledge efforts in these industries are not low, but we lack the new knowledge-based industries. With a proper development in the Fornebu area, we see the possibility of creating a significant business life in the knowledge-intensive and particularly high-growth industries. And when the Storting has joined a knowledge and innovation centre in Fornebu and said that it should be of international importance, it is what can provide an environment for business development – on the one hand, it should be a centre for industrial research, and on the other, it should be a centre for education in interaction with surrounding enterprises. But the main point is to contribute to innovation, i.e., to the goal of nutrition policy. Why has the Progress Party been so concerned with the requirements of the private partner? Because the state's interests in Fornebu are not about finding money bags in business to relieve the country of financing the centre or taking over the properties – the idea of an IT and knowledge centre has its origins in private business. The development of a knowledge centre of international standards is a politically important national commitment, but the dynamics and creativity must come from the private sector. Property management and access to capital is necessary but not sufficient. Privates shall create an innovation environment for business development. This will be a critical factor in the work. Furthermore, owners of capital must have the necessary competence to assess and develop ideas for products and services that form the basis for new enterprises. We must be willing to bring this competence into the knowledge environment. In addition, it needs to be emphasised that private individuals participating in this knowledge environment are themselves engaged in international activities. That's some of the reasons why the demands and guidelines made to the private interests are so important, as we in the Progress Party see it. The position confirms that a broad majority would like the Storting to have the decisive word in the Fornebu case, including the selection of private sector partners. It is an important recognition that we are pleased that the Government is in. The Labour Party and the Advance Party have, in their comments, asked the Government in the negotiations to take up the possibility of involving the various providers in cooperation. This has probably been misunderstood in the media, and it has also been addressed by the case-rapporteur today. What is put forward is, of course, that one must have a sharp competition, but if two groupings strengthen their competitive situation by joining together and thereby get a better position compared to the other competitors, it is fully acceptable. If two companies see themselves profited from going into partnership and it brings great synergies to the companies and improves the opportunities for a more powerful IT and knowledge center, it will be a plus, as we see it. However, I would like to stress that such cooperation must not be forced forward, but must be based on voluntary action. Although several competitors reject such a idea today, much can change during the March. As we can see, there may be a basis for cooperation between the Fornebu AS and IT Fornebu AS networks, because one can lack competence and background, the other can contribute. Let me give you an example: the Hakon Group is a major user of data on everything that deals with commerce. Orkla has a number of companies that are major users of computer systems and has data developments within its group. They may thus be able to provide the Fornebu Centre with both assignments, competences and cooperation projects. Gross fires are in pursuit of investing insurance and pension funds from their funds in e.g. business start-ups that may be established by the environment at Fornebu. IT Fornebu AS has significant skills, knowledge and vision about the research part and the education part. They are developing the provision of online education, and they are establishing electronic classrooms around Norway. The organisation and dissemination of online education is an important part of the Fornebu vision and its regional dimension. Cooperation agreements have been concluded with the University of Wisconsin System, Learning Innovation in Madison, University of California, Berkeley Extension and with the University of Washington. The agreements deal with offers of online continuing training courses, which can be specially adapted to different user groups, in order to have mentioned something. As far as we know, this is something the other competitors don't have much experience in. But of course, it is the companies themselves – and I would like to stress this – that have to investigate what they think makes sense. A broad majority, all the parties to the Business Committee with the exception of the Right, ask the Government to present a big deal in the spring session explaining the matter and the companies with which it is relevant to negotiate. The size will be briefed on the situation and what is the government's assessment of them, let's say, three-four actors with which the government will negotiate further. In a matter like this, there will always be things you want more clarity in. Then the Government will present its ranking and the company the Government believes should be awarded, in a proposal to the Stortinget no later than 1 October. Thereafter, the Stortinget shall take the final decision on the extension and on the company to be entrusted with the implementation and establishment of the Centre. The Progress Party believes that there are good opportunities for us to say in a few years' time that we have an IT and knowledge centre of international importance here in the country. The Oslo area may be the only place in Norway where there is sufficient concentration of competence, capital and customers to develop an international focus on certain types of knowledge-based business. Norway simply needs a heavy business environment to cope with the migration of knowledge abroad. It is worth noting the international concentration of knowledge in industries such as finance, pharmacy, biotechnology and information and communication technologies, with the corresponding relocation of the head office of the group. Hopefully, research and development and international activities will be added to Norway and Fornebu. It assumes that this centre is competitive and powerful. There must be a real competitor for what is happening in Sweden and Denmark, among others. The establishment of Øresund and what is happening in some other countries. If you do this, Fornebu can become the IT cord of the outside world that the country so badly needs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e663	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e666	The proposal of the four representatives of the Labour Party and the Progress Party reminds me of the one feather that was four chickens, and then – in this case – once again being reduced to less than one feather. In other words, IT Fornebu has been an entirely ordinary case, with notification and setting, as in other cases. The Christian People's Party is pleased with this development. This ensures a defensive result for the re-use of the old aerodrome. The natural question of the Progress Party is then: Why this drama, why the big uprising? In a note, the Progress Party asks whether the Spøtvoll selection was necessary in order to draw up tender documents in order to implement the Stortinget's intention with the decision of 25 February, which was mentioned earlier today. Does the Progress Party not see that the option would have been that the department had done this work itself and thus spent time on both distribution and implementation, and that the result would have been much more time games? One thing that is also natural to ask about is: does the representative Hedstrøm not see the danger that the state, as a serious case manager and organizer in major development cases, gets a bad reputation because of this Ap- and Frp-created drama?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e675	Yes, there have been many reactions to this Document No. The 8 proposal, and from our point of view, there has been no need for the accumulation that we have especially seen through the media. We have always stressed that we have viewed this as a completely normal matter. But I want to say that it has been a little bit in the strategy of the Progress Party to put things a little bit on the verge here to get a normal process going. We've achieved that. There is a broad majority who stand behind the procedure to which it is now added, but we should have wished that we had had a much faster progress in the matter than we have had. I would like to remind you that the IT message was processed last year. It's not often a matter gets as much and as thorough consideration in as many committees as just this matter, and there will be some foci until we're done with it. When the representative Aukan says that this is a matter that has had a development he really does not understand, it has at least been our background to view this as a perfectly normal matter, but we have put forward a strategy. But the government has to sit with the blacks when it comes to the slow progress, and the situation in which the government has got the case. Now we have to show justice to the seven providers and give reasonable time. Then we will also have to have a clarification in relation to the fare and EEA legislation, in order to have mentioned something. It means that we must then have a somewhat slower drive than the Progress Party would have liked, so that Norway will not become competitive when compared to the establishment of a number of other competitive IT and knowledge centres on a global basis.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e686	The representative, Mr. Aukan, played on a well-known adventure by H.C. Andersen. Personally, I could imagine a slightly different imagery, which would be even more comprehensive for what has happened so far with the so far last round in this case. What we have witnessed after higher powers took over from the two representatives, sir. Opseth and Mr. Heath current, is that two lions are merged into one skin trap. What amazes me a little bit is that the government parties have become so fascinated by this process that they have insisted on lying down next to it and trampling together to a carpet with this skin trap. The representative Hedstrøm offered when the deadline had expired for the operators, that he would take over the entire procedure and implement it himself. The tastes he gave for the best from the pulpit, which means that you have to be happy that there was nothing of it. The fundamental mystery in this matter is that what is being presented as a nationally important, forward-looking matter is to be carried out on this particular track, that it is not possible to deal with it in accordance with the usual rules for the allocation of responsibilities in our parliamentary system. What is the reality behind Document No. The 8:58 proposal, is a manifest mistrust of the Council of States, but it has therefore not been desired to draw the consequences. Instead, we are at risk of having to go further rounds on this matter where responsibility is powdered because it is fundamentally unclear whether the majority of the population wants to govern according to the principles of parliamentaryism, that is. through the Government, or whether it wishes to take over the role of the Government. It would have been an advantage both for our political system and for the matter if you had followed the normal driving rules.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e697	We now have a situation in Norway, and have had it for some years, with minority governments, and in such a situation it is very important in general that governments are more responsive to the Storting. I would also like to say that it has not been unusual for the government to come to Stortinget with a number of things. We were recently sent a case to the nutrition committee – the passed state council last week – which dealt with a fixed issue from Hydro to Saga. So the government goes to Stortinget with such a case – and a number of other issues with economic implications, where it takes place. In the requirements and guidelines developed by the Ministry of Industry and Trade based on the suspension of the Spøtvoll Committee, the Council of State says that there are some areas where the Government does not have authority and has to return to the Stortinget. I could frame up a number of cases where this has been common in the past. We have no objection to the fact that Stortinget has a strong influence on the part of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e704	The representative Hedstrøm says that the Progress Party has been involved in putting the matter a little ‘to the head here to get a normal process going’. He has now done so, and that is in relation to the decision in the Grand Duchy in February this year. For the Council of State, what has happened is a fallacy, and it is a similar defeat for those who have promoted this Document No. The 8th proposal. I would like to comment a little bit on the comment that is about getting more people to cooperate, that the government is going to put the work on several of the seven, now maybe three of them, who are being picked up to cooperate. Hedstrom says that they have been busy getting a sharp competition between several, and that it would be good for the project within the record short time available. Then they have subsequently filed charges against the Council of State that the Council of State destroys this competition when it is opened so that more people can complement each other, by enabling the Government to cooperate if it is that someone does not have a complete plan. One of the points in the criticism from the Progress Party has been that one expects offers that do not have an overall plan, and that several are merged. The letter from Opseth and Hedstrom to the Council of State states: ‘It is such an overall plan and the ability to implement it that must form the basis for the negotiations it is undertaking with a provider. A pieceful scheme could undermine the ability to realise the knowledge centre envisaged.’» So it turns out that all seven have a whole plan. And now I understand it so that Hedstrom wants one to maybe get the two strongest to join together. My question is, will it increase competition and improve the position of the State in the negotiations to be held, whether a sheep for such an association of several operators?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e718	I am pleased that the chairman of the Committee addressed this very question, because it is necessary to elaborate a little more, because it has been partly misunderstood primarily by the media, but also by some of the political competitors of the Progress Party. The more powerful, competitive and powerful a centre can be established at Fornebu, the better for those implicated by industry, the better for the Norwegian State and for the future opportunities that this value creation will have in the high-tech areas. Everyone should be satisfied with such a solution. So if two strong competitors find sufficient synergies, complement each other and win the competition – well to mark with the other competitors in the picture – then it's positive. Such a centre could then be developed not only in the case of capital but also in the case of competences and regional and international contacts. I would like to stress that if there is an overall plan based on two competitors of these seven stakeholders – I have not been given the opportunity to read all the documents, but I understand that the committee leader has done so – merges, it is in line with the will of the majority. And during the hearing in the committee with the Council of State the other day, he just underlined that you should not pick out good bits from different stakeholders, but that development should take place within a general plan and the competitiveness that is then developed at Fornebu.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e725	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e728	It has rarely been so much adrift in a matter before a nice and decorative one comes to the conclusion that the Government is in charge, and the Stortinget is being dealt with when the Government has said it – that is, as usual. It naturally delights the Christian People's Party as one of the government parties that what might resemble distrust, now has changed to confidence in Minister of Industry Lars Sponheim and in the Government. The drama is gone, and the starting point for this debate is Document No. 8:58 for 1998-99, is now annexed to the Protocol and is therefore gone and forgotten. The centre, along with the Right, thinks that the private proposal of the Progress Party and the Labour Party is continuing to be rejected, but the result is the same. The government will now have time for a thorough case management, and item 1 of the Innst. S. No 99 for 1998-99 from 25 February. It is good for the seven actors who have provided good and well-founded services for the development of an IT knowledge centre on what is called Norway's internal file when it relates to land. It is also obvious that when partners of an IT centre at Fornebu are to be selected first to the autumn, point 5 of the decision of 25 February must be postponed. It is, as I said in a line here, reasonably backwards to start teaching in a building before one has pointed out the contractors and at least the necessary conversion plans are in place. I'm glad that the representative Kjell Opseth has confirmed it, and then we'll get started as soon as we can. The size will be presented before the summer break, where the progress of an IT centre at Fornebu is presented. The actors who have provided the best custom offers will be negotiated. The government could, if required, have the winner pointed out tomorrow, June 1. But it is wise to negotiate with several good actors, both because it has not yet been possible to tax land and buildings on Fornebu. It cannot be done until 16 June, when the Town Council Plan for Bærum is signed, and also because the case is reasonably complex. A decision on who should become partners in the IT Knowledge Centre at Fornebu is far better quality than what was possible under the time pressure imposed by the February decision on the Government. It is gratifying to see that the Storting well reasonable solutions at last. So, has the government been picking for warrants? Is the Government flipped? Absolutely not. Quite rightly, a mandate was adopted on 25 February when the Government was to point out partners in a very short time. The mandate was an untimely imposition of urgency as we did – and we voted against it. The Christian People's Party believes that on the basis of the scale of the matter, how important it is, the public interest and not least the economic dimensions, it is reasonable that the Storting gets the case in full width. That is why the center is on the plural proposal asking for a staging proposition for the cottage. The government has already indicated in its requirements specifications that such a proposition must have been made at all times. And of course, the government will quality its choice of partners at Fornebu, so that the dream of the big crowd about an "IT and knowledge centre of international importance" can become a reality. A careful and factual assessment is important in the wider process. It is also important that the IT centre, with the exchange of knowledge and the best teaching, is clearly in the early stages of the new millennium. The best way to achieve this is, of course, to join the Government's negotiated agreement with those who are best able to operate such a centre. I would recommend the proposal where the centre parties are co-sponsors.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e756	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e759	I'm not going to ask Apelthun Seele if she still thinks that the Labour Party and the Advance Party are out to give billions of gifts to Fred. Olsen. But what I'm going to say is that the matter has so far been more about formalities and form, and very little about content, it also marked the representative's post now. As far as it was natural, it became clear that the Council of State would not follow up on the great majority that had agreed and pronounced. But now there is a deal about the process, and about the premises that will form the basis for the selection of the actor. I argued that Apelthun's seal is the unit in this. The government party and the state council have so far talked most about what they are against, and what is problematic. People outside this house have almost understood that the government party is against an IT and competence centre at Fornebu. Then I would like to ask: What kind of visions does the Christian People's Party and the representative Sell for an IT centre at Fornebu have? What does the representative say about the claim that the center must be large and heavy enough to maintain good strength and high competence in Norway and draw the corresponding competence from abroad, and come quickly enough that it is not overlooked by competitors in other countries, for example. in the Øresund area? Is the representative sure that this is what I am now saying, with the decision that we are making today, that the centre will be large enough and heavy enough and that we will not be able to conceal any possibility because of this process?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e769	First of all, with a billion-dollar gift to Fred. The oil that was called cash support in its time. It was about the dwelling area that was to be added, but which is now outside the IT centre, as it should be. I think those who build plots on Fornebu are going to make good money. They are certainly the ones who get the big task, in competition with others who are in the same market. It's healthy with competition, and now it's working. The government has never meant and never said – in my opinion – that it should not follow up on the decision to raise a stake. It has to do with our parliamentary system. Decisions taken in this room shall be monitored by the Government. We also have in mind that an IT centre at Fornebu – it is written in several big messages – will benefit our business, especially the business that has IT as the basis. If the center is large, business actually decides whether they want to establish themselves out there. I think that a significant part of the business community is interested in Fornebu, both because of its location, and because of the interaction with others that they can see out there. Therefore, this could mean something for Norwegian business. It is also important that the knowledge gained by the small enterprises by establishing themselves at Fornebu for a shorter period of time is transferred to the country afterwards. This knowledge centre must support the IT business that exists in commercial parks and businesses throughout the country. This is how IT becomes district friendly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e778	The representative Apelthun Seele and others from the government fraction have been constantly involved in this process in the role of public educational institutions in Fornebu. In this setting, too, it is quoted from the position of the Spøtvoll Committee that there should be ‘cooperation between existing public education institutions’. However, during the March we received written enquiries, including: from the Institute of Business Economics and the University of Oslo, which wants to establish itself centrally out there. These are professional institutions that can contribute to engineering training. It may also include information management, management, etc., especially in the case of the Business Economics Institute. They want a much larger area than the 10,000 deches estimated by the Spøtvoll range. My question to the representative Apelthun Sæle is: Should there be a room for training at Fornebu that is outside the mainstream existing educational institutions, for example: for the Occupational Economics Institute? As far as regional research and business parks are concerned, I would recommend the representative Apelthun Säle to read an investigation from the Norwegian Institute of Urban and Regional Research, which says that the results of these research parks are not as good as they would have liked, and that they largely live on rental income.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e787	The role of expedient institutions must be very important. There is a large majority who agree that cooperation between existing challenge institutions must be what we take advantage of at Fornebu. Business, which is the starting point, must take part in the knowledge that exists and can be acquired at education institutions in Norway. I myself have gone through BI's business economics study and found it very interesting and useful – a good study. I have no objection to the fact that even private, free high-sphericals are going to have the opportunity to bring their offerings to our business. Of course they will! But it has to be decided in negotiations, whether they are in demand, and whether they have the necessary knowledge. Currently, it is the University of Oslo that is inside the picture. But here, of course, there are opportunities for anyone with competence to contribute. Knowhow must be controlling when it comes to who is going to get a foot within it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e794	What this matter is all about is simply whether or not the assumptions of the February decision of the Storting have been followed up. Everything else is really secondary in this case – also the question of dates. As the case has gradually developed, especially after the state council Sponheim had answered the most complicated questions about the Storting's assumptions had been followed up, it was expected to become a question of how the representatives Opseth and Hedstrom should be able to make a softer landing than they initially made. But after these two representatives have received a majority in the case, which in many ways has now been put in place in the very loose statements in this – in my opinion – embarrassing Document No. The 8 proposal, we see instead that the case in the last round turns in an entirely unexpected way. My question to the representative Apelthun Seele must be: What's it coming from? What has happened between February and the end of May, which means that today only the Right is behind the proposal that the Government should point out which company will be commissioned to develop and implement the plans for an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu? It could have been very interesting to know what it is that in the last round you fail the Council of State in a matter that he could have really gotten out of. Instead, you contribute to such doubts about the whole matter, which hopefully ends today, at least now before the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e803	First of all, I must reassure the representative that of course we do not fail the Sponheim Council – not at all! Saka is quite simply messy ashore. In February, we had a six-point proposal that the Right and Center parties voted against. Nevertheless, there was a plurality for it, and the government of Sponheim, of course, promised the Storting that it would follow up what the Storing had imposed on the Government. It has a work with later and followed up to the point and the dot. When so many in the last few moments have found that it is still not necessary to keep the tight time frames, the Christian People's Party is very happy about it. We think it's good for Saka. The most important thing is that this matter is handled properly, so that the right partner is selected in this large project to be started on Fornebu. The government party does not object to the Storting being briefed by a message before the summer break in such a big and important case – rather the contrary. We also believe that it is reasonable that the Stortinget will be presented with the case in its full width in a proposition for the cottage, as we have also said in the requirements with which the government has asked. Otherwise, I would like to address the proposal to which the centre party is a co-sponsor. I added a good word for it instead. Now it's also taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e814	The representative Apelthun Seele has taken up the suggestion she herself referred to. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e819	The term ‘up as a lion and down as a skin trap’ is a situational description that I have thought about on several occasions during the examination of this proposal in Stortinget, and not least in the media. Now I think it is most important to note that there is a broad consensus in the Storting on the further course of action, and that is a violation of the Council of State and of the central parties. Further proceedings are now fully in line with those outlined by the Council of State at the meeting of the Economic and Social Committee. Of course, the parties to the government are in favour of the proposals that support the Council of State's draft for progress. We tolerate that the Right claims that they do not understand that this is true. But I want to ask a question – of course theoretically – to the Right: If a Right-State Council were to defend a case in the Stortinget that received such support – that is of course also theoretical – would the Right go against that support and formulate its own proposals? I think we can see that the Right is once again disappointed that there is also a crisis vote in the Stortinget on this issue. The Committee is unanimous in its judgment that it proposed the death of the Stortinget as a procedural body. In addition, it is agreed that the time limit previously laid down, 1 June, for the selection of the operator, shall be extended until 1 October. As far as I remember, there was an even shorter deadline for the Workers' Party and the Advance Party operated with the case being dealt with in the Stortinget in February, but that deadline was also extended. The representative, Opseth, says today that it is completely irresponsible to choose an actor before 1 June because the EEA Agreement prevents such rapid valuation. But May 6th, when this Document No. The 8-proposal was submitted, he did not think about it. I therefore find that the EEA is serious about this. The criticism of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party against the Government has proved to be unfounded. There are seven providers who have submitted plans consistent with the Storting assumptions at all points where the proposers claimed that the department had asked them to base different assumptions. Those claims were unfounded. The proposers are loud enough to express satisfaction with the handling of the matter by the Council of State so far, even with the plans for further work. The only thing missing is a request for forgiveness. The Labour Party and the Advance Party have been particularly concerned that all offers should be complete and could be on their own. One was apparently afraid that the government would make a cooperation between several, so that their own alleged favourite did not reach. It turns out that all seven satisfy this requirement. Then it is strange that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party require the Government to investigate whether the best operators will be able to cooperate. If there is another attempt to facilitate a particular provider, many have asked. I don't think that would be possible. Before our summer vacation, the government is to provide a message about the providers and the offers selected for further negotiations, and then the government is to make a proposition before 1 October. There, the Government shall present its choice of builders for further negotiations and other conclusions that the Storting must know and approve. It will probably be much worse to vote for a different choice of builder than the Government – if anyone wants it. As I said, I don't think any parties take the opportunity to reveal to the public that they won't follow the Storting's assumptions and the general business principles that apply in large and small expansion cases in this society, even though there will be two years to the next election when we get back to this case. In the setting there is again a criticism of the Government that there was time spent on the so-called Spjøtvoll selection. I find that strange, because it must be an important prerequisite that lies there, both for our and the ministry's further work on the matter. So just a small remark to this that the taxiing has not been started. That's as far as I can see, so that taxiing could not have been started until after 18 May, when the offers came in, because one did not know which providers would be involved, and therefore could get hurt in order to appoint a tariff name with inhabile people. Closing the fare before a municipal sub-plan is completed should also be impossible, it is said. In theory, one might say in a community plan that this area cannot be built, or that the rate of exploitation is quite different from that which has been used to date.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e845	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e848	It is, as the representative Morten Lund said, very strange that has happened in this matter, and one of the strange things is that it seems that the representative Lund has not quite got what has happened in the committee. From the 1997 budgetary procedure, there has been a broad consensus between the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Centre Parties on the establishment of a national IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. Also in St.meld. No 38 for 1997-98, it was agreed that an area large enough for it to become an international impact centre, that the State should participate in the development of its holdings and that the construction of terminals should be made available, and that there was agreement on the conditions for interaction with the regional environment. The Working Party and the Advance Party followed this up at the Innst. S. No 99 for 1998-99. Then something strange happens again: the center parts jump off. What is there in the majority vote today that the Central Party has not previously participated in? And what does the Center Party really want with an IT and Competence Center at Fornebu?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e859	The Centre Parties support a national IT and competence centre on the area of Fornebu. We want to be involved and influence what's happening around that center, to strike a balance between this national center and what's happening around the country, and that this should be a center for the best for business, education and skills building across the country. We want the state's resources, what we go into this matter, to be for the benefit of that center, but also for the benefit of the whole country. This applies to large values, and we want a proper handling of this matter, just to ensure what I said. We want it to be dealt with commercially correctly, and we want there to be a competition between all those who can contribute, not least between the educational institutions around the country. The point of setting up the Spøtvoll committee was that we should get an assessment of this at the time, and not bring it afterwards. I think we've come to a good start, but it's necessary to spend time. The government has constantly committed itself to complying with the deadlines imposed on it by the Stortinget. We're happy that we're now getting a better deadline and getting a better deal with the piece that's left.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e866	The representative Lund referred to what is happening in Stortinget today, as a “bracs owner” of the Government. Then you've become quite small, I have to say. What has been achieved so far is that a little bit has been slowed down on the most impatient and forward in terms of time, first by a shift from 1 April to 1 June, and then a shift from 1 June to 1 October. That's good in itself. But in return, the government parties themselves, entirely voluntarily and with open eyes, in the attitude of the committee bought the big business as a principle, in a matter in which, after all normal work distribution between government and accumulation, it is the government's responsibility to make a decision, namely who is the best fit of those who have announced their interest in building up on Fornebu. It has been agreed that this should be taken over by Stortinget. I have a very hard time understanding what's the reason for this. As late as February it was everyone's opinion here in the hall that it would be the government's task to make that decision. Why have the Government parties now fallen behind and accepted that it is not the Government that should have this power of decision? In what way does the representative Lund consider this to be a ‘bracs owner’ of the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e874	I tried in my post to get the right representatives in the room to try to get into the theoretical situation that there was a Right-State Council that had been subjected to this criticism that Lars Sponheim has been subjected to, that a proposal for a document from a majority in the Stortinget said on the following point that it and what the Stortinget had said had not been fulfilled. Then there comes back a position from the Business Committee in Stortinget, where the same majority, with the support of the central parties, say about abandonment, except that there is time for the so-called Spøtvoll Committee. That's what I call a "bracs egg". There is no indication of a crisis mood in this setting. The right and many others have said that it was in the document proposal that was submitted. The Government shall submit its choice of provider before 1 October and it complies with the requirements set out by the Ministry of Economic Affairs to those making the offer: ‘...economic arrangements The Government will not have the power to do so on its own, will have to be submitted to the Stortinget for decision.’ It looks as if there are a number of such arrangements of the nature of the decisions that need to be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e886	What made me take the floor again was the representative of Lund's interest in the taxiing, and that there was no taxing on the properties at Fornebu. I had the matter up in Stortingen's Question Time last week, and as a justification from the State Council, Sponheim, that it was not adjourned because the tariff people could possibly be associated with some of the providers who made their offer only on 18 May. And the second was that one would wait until municipal level 2 was dealt with in Bærum municipal government on June 16. It's a fair thing to find tax people outside these environments, so I think it's a substitute argument. It is also possible – if the information I have received from EEA lawyers is correct, and I have reason to believe so – that such a value assessment can be adjusted subsequently if the municipal plan and the level of exploitation would be changed, without notification to the EEA. It's been completely possible, as I see it, to hold the fare earlier. In any case, the government's failure to obtain a tax means that the Government opted for an open-eyed procedure that would have to trigger a notification to ESA and thus 10-12 months of suspension, without the Storting being made aware of this. On the contrary, the Council of State stated that the Government would follow the 1st of June – I would stress this – deadline, without pointing out that a selection of this date would delay the matter by allowing ESA to enter the picture. My question to Morten Lund is: does he mean you can defend that you have waited until the Storting itself points out the relationship?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e897	To the question of taxiing. I mentioned in my post why it hasn't been started, that we wanted to be sure that we got an independent tariff, where none of the members in the name were connected to the providers, and that the tariff base in the form of a municipal sub-plan would be clear. The government has made it clear that it was the arrangement that was wanted to lead, and has started the work. The proposal here that it should be started is really unnecessary, but we are also in favour of it. In the case of valuation, valuation, the Government is running a safe race. We are sure to release the delays that we could have experienced if a member of the tariff panel had been declared invalid. Then I think we must have started all over again. We are now running a safe race, and I will claim that we have not lost time because we had to wait for the treatment in Bærum anyway. The tariff base, as I understand it, will be completed in time for us to have the necessary agreements on the table by 1 October.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e904	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e907	SV has never let themselves be involved in this game around IT Fornebu because we initially thought it was a bad idea. We still believe that, and we have received support for that from research communities, industry and educational institutions. Now that we've witnessed this strange spring drop that's happened this year, there's reason to think about it. The laushstones, as I see some newspapers, have referred to the representatives Hedstrøm and Opseth who, they have now turned themselves away and put themselves in place, but I don't think they are very good to have in the five-span that has now evolved between the Government, the government parties, the Labour Party and the Progress Party. I think we will have even more rounds on this matter before it is in port. I think it has been a rather embarrassing performance from both the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, but also from the Government, and I see it as if the Workers' Party and the Advance Party must be reasonably desperate to ensure that the only provider they wanted is elected. And the crisis mood that has now been created, they have created to whip the government parties into place in the matter. Unfortunately, it seems that they have succeeded in doing so far along the way. We have spent a lot of time, resources and attention on an already bad case. It would have been more correct and tidy about a both the government and the majority had manned up to do it one thought was right, and then take the consequences of it. It is also strange to witness that those who fought the most for the Gardemo decision, who were to pull north and eastwards, are now those who are at the forefront of countering this best possible: by establishing what they hope to become a huge countermagnet on Fornebu, and by pretending that it is possible to drive decentralised IT development by clumping as much of this together as possible at Fornebu. The most important thing would have been if you had sold the land and spent the money on putting IT into school in a proper way, spent the money on education and research, and on building up the environments we have, which are good, and which really cooperate with the industry. No one has ever fought for it. There has been no such vision, or any idea of betting on this through the system we have established for it. It's a shame, because this should happen in public, it should happen with force, and it should happen with at least as much government resource effort as it's now being put up to at Fornebu. Then we would also have reasonable control over what we had received, and we would have been sure to get a decentralised bet. But the worse the idea is, the more power it uses, and the greater the effort to get it done, the cost will cost. IT Fornebu is a derailment of an important and crucial issue: how to build up and ensure IT education, research and competence in Norway. The future of these important issues lies not in lobbying and participation but in strengthening and investing in public schools, in research and development, and in strengthening cooperation between them and the business community. I wonder what will happen to the involvement of the Labour Party and the Advance Party in the matter if now someone other than IT Fornebu – who has been the crumbling of this, and who, as I understand it, has somehow managed to convince these parties to the degrees that they are not willing to listen to any other arguments – should prove to be the best, and get this idea implemented? Will the matter then be equally good and equally important? We are very excited about that, and we are waiting for the continuation of this matter. SV wants the proposal rejected. SV has opposed the establishment and will also vote against the other proposals made.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e928	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e931	I can assure Andersen, the representative, that it is the establishment of an IT knowledge centre at Fornebu that is the most important thing for us, not the actor who gets the award. It gets the result of a thorough process. I think this indicates that SV is the most desperate in this matter, and they do not deny themselves this time as museum guards. For us, we are now looking at planned large IT centres in Europe. Ireland, which is a small country, has been large in this area. Sweden and Denmark are working to develop a powerful IT centre in the Øresund region, and the main actors are looking forward to building a centre of gravity for the development and innovation of products and services on the ICT page. For these countries, too, they are members of the EU and should be strong, but even they see that there is a need to invest both nationally and internationally. Norway is on its own and needs for every reason to bet on good forces and skills in this field in Norway, and to be able to attract special skills from abroad. It is well known that SV has opposed such an establishment on the grounds of fear of destroying it for educational institutions in the country. But has SV Hus passed the fact that the establishment of an IT knowledge centre at Fornebu is committed to playing with educational institutions and businesses throughout the country? And now I hear today that the center part has the same motivation. Does SV mean that Norway is better off with Øresund as our nearest IT knowledge centre of this caliber than that private, in cooperation with the state, are able to establish such a centre on Fornebu, for the benefit of Norway as a whole?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e940	For many years SV has made proposals for school, research and development in this area, which the Workers' Party has not been willing to follow up. If we had followed the proposals SV have made, we would have been much longer than we are today, in the field of IT, both in the ordinary school system, in research and educational institutions – and also in industry. We have also spent money on such investments through our business effort, without any parties paying any particular attention to it. It doesn't have to be connected to a special place, and that place is called Fornebu. Such a commitment can be made to the established educational and research institutions we have. And there's a combined IT industry and a combined Education Norway that says that this way of solving this is not the best. This reminds me when Norway adopted the growth centre cycle in the 1960s, which was a research idea that started in France, and which referred to far greater population concentrations than we had in any place in Norway at the time. It was adopted, transformed into Norwegian reality, and ended up with lots of small bets, which didn't work anywhere – with a few exceptions. And you're going to do that now. No, SV does not want the Øresund bet to be the main investment for IT in Norway. We want a decentralised investment in the research environments we have. We think that would have been a much better solution, and there we have the industry and the whole Education Norway with us.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e949	The scheduled time for the morning meeting will be immediately available. The President will propose that the meeting continue until the change of line is over and that a new meeting be set at 1 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e952	The intention of the powerful centre to be established at Fornebu is that it should have positive ring-effects for the districts. It's actually a prerequisite on the part of the majority, and it's a decision on it earlier in the case. So to this myth that the representative of SV is trying to keep alive, that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party should have glued themselves to a special interested party. This is not the first time Andersen's representative has made false claims in this Chamber. IT Fornebu has a lot of skilled entrepreneurs and industrialists. We have the Selvaag group, who helped build homes for thousands of Northmen in the 1950s and 1960s. We also have others who have been valuable entrepreneurs and industrialists, who are interested in investing their own money in Norway, and we have Orkla and Hakon and other groupings that will be part of this sharp competition. In the light of the requirements and guidelines and competition to take place, there is no reason to believe that any grouping should be given priority over the others. It must be those who are most competent, those who have the best knowledge and the best competence and the whole within the plan to be established, who will win. I must therefore ask Andersen, the representative: why is she trying to keep alive in a false myth that the Progress Party and the Workers' Party are prioritizing a special grouping on Fornebu? What's the point of that?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e959	It is the nature and treatment of the whole matter that have led this myth to survive, and the Document No. The 8-proposal that is now being promoted is probably one of the best contributions to the survival of this myth. SV and I have not wanted this solution. We have had no reason to keep the myth alive, because we have simply wanted this case not to be implemented, because we believe it is bad. What we've seen, not least in the last few rounds we've witnessed, is that when it looks like, that the project you initially wanted, maybe not what you wanted to be, you stop talking about competition between the environments and start talking about cooperation between them. There are a lot of things that can make you wonder when the Labour Party and the Advance Party, who in this case have joined up so to those degrees, have been little concerned about how much money you put into the project, who really gets it, and about having a thoughtful and thorough plan beyond the vision that IT Fornebu is, and about how this should best be implemented, so that you achieve what you say you want. The intention is that ‘this should have positive ring-effects for the districts’, says Hedstrom. Yes, I hear they repeat it. They repeat it over and over again, but there won't be reality for that reason, especially when Hedstrom in his post before today talked about this happening where the evolution is best and easiest of his seas from before. That means in the center, and that means that first you have to grow big and strong in the center, and then you have to decentralize things beyond. In this way it has not actually worked before, and it will not work in this case either.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e967	I share Andersen's assessment of the level of amateurism that has been exhibited in this matter from the Alliance between the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. I also share her description from a line change earlier in this debate, that it is virtually impossible to find any competent person, whether in the industry, in the IT industry, or in the educational environments, who believes that this giant notion of the great international project has some ground management. But at the same time, I have problems realizing that SV can take the underlying problem so easily that you simply say that if you had sold the plots without saying anything about the purpose for which they were to be used, you could have taken the crowns and ears, scratches and bits, and ploughed into the general school budgets, and then the problem would have been solved. The political reality cannot be that simple. The representative of Andersen is also well aware that there is good experience in Norway in ensuring that cooperation between high-tech environments, both on the business and research sides, and the university environment provides good results. We have UNIK, the university studies at Kjeller, which have existed for many years and which demonstrate that it is a reasonable idea to use the guidance capacity of these high-tech environments. And now it's actually the way the University Council and the University Council have said that it can be a reasonable idea when you get this dimensioned in a natural and realistic way, to take advantage of the cooperation possibilities that will also come to Fornebu. This is also largely what is in the Søtvoll selection setting. Is SV not able to see that the Spøtvoll selection setting brings this down to the ground and makes it a potentially interesting project?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e974	If IT Fornebu gets established, and there's a great probability that it will be, the SV doesn't care that positive things can come out of it. We have nothing against cooperation between research environments, higher education environments and this environment if it comes, and in that case we want it to develop so that higher education environments and research environments are not otherwise debilitated, but can benefit from it. It was just supposed to be missing! My and SV's points are just that we think such a commitment would have been much more correct and become better for the benefit of the research communities, the universities and industry, and so also for the country, if it had been done in another way. So if it's so simple, you can just sell the plots and use the money in school, and that's the best solution. Of course, it's important what this area should be used for. And SV has said from this pulpit before that we believe that the area should be used primarily for residential areas. A former leader in the Right, and also Prime Minister in Norway, said the same thing on the radio today early. He believed that industries that now want to establish themselves on Fornebu should establish themselves, for example. In Bjørvika, also other plots in more central areas and let people who live a little bit less suitable for, rather get houses in areas where it is more attractive to live. Such thoughts can be divided. However, it may not be that income from the sale of the sites in Fornebu will be sufficient for an investment in IT, either in primary school or up in the higher education system and in the research environments. There'll be more! But I think that effort is actually what we need to get by means of a larger public funding regardless of whether IT Fornebu is established or not. I don't think such a solution will be enough, so we have to bet on putting more public money into the system to make it work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31.ana.ud2257e981	The morning meeting is thus over.
