ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11.ana.ud2389e36	The representative May-Helen Molvær Grimstad, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The called alternate of the South Trondelag County, Heidi K. Larsen, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11.ana.ud2389e52	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the Storting depart from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure and complete voting after that date. 1 and 2 have been dealt with – and immediately thereafter the case No. 4, Unit, up to treatment. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Furthermore, the President will propose that the Storting meeting be interrupted after the No. 1, 2 and 4 are finished and set again at 1:00 p.m. 19.30 for the evening meeting and handling of case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox – This is also considered to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11.ana.ud2389e66	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1915]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11.ana.ud2389e80	The position to be taken today, which is based on a proposal by the staging representatives Erna Solberg and Sverre J. Hoddevik, is, in an annotated form, largely a unanimous one. Nevertheless, the conclusion is shared. A minority, consisting of the Right Party and the Advance Party, promotes the proposal for consideration. I guess representatives of these parties themselves will argue why they do it. The majority, consisting of the other parties, propose that the proposal be annexed to the Protocol. When I say that the Committee is united on the comments, it means that the Committee is united that the intentions of the proposal are good and that it is important to follow up on what is the basis of the proposal. However, as the Ministry points out in the attached letter, we believe that the assessment ‘of which rules are considered unnecessary is primarily a political question’. It is important to keep this in mind, because no matter how many samples are appointed to address these issues, it does not solve the political issues. Simplifying these interests must be achieved through political treatment. Let me also say that when, through the proposal and in the setting, the focus is on the municipal sector, it is well limited to the extent to which costs can be reduced and the public sector more efficient by looking at the municipal sector in isolation. It is quite obvious that through different decisions, the Storting manages the municipal sector unnecessarily. But at the end of the seventh, we end up with the resources and constraints in the resources that determine to what extent the municipal sector is able to produce the services that the population demands. If our starting point as top political authority is to respond well to the needs of the population for public services, I think we need to organise the public sector so that we free these resources. The size has previously adopted a proposal from the Right to go thoroughly through sectoral legislation. That job needs to be done, and it will solve some problems related to the issues that are now being discussed. The Government has appointed the Task Distribution Committee and got it to work. It also solves some of the issues that are not only raised here, but that have been raised repeatedly in debates here in Stortinget. Thus, through the examination of the financial position last autumn, the Stortinget has adopted the establishment of a Public Sector Modernisation Committee. Then you'll also solve a lot of problems, if you're willing to go into and do the job properly. But then it's not enough just to look at the legislation and regulations that regulate the municipal sector, we have to look at the public sector as a whole. At any organisational review, whether it's an organisation or a company that produces knives and forks, sausages or services, it's right and logical to start at the top to see how effective you can be. It is not useful to start at the bottom or out of the organisation. My call to the Council of State is to comment on the extent to which the proposal of the Right to review the sectoral legislation adopted by the Stortinget in the past has been taken into account. How far have you come with that job? And are you willing to start from central government and look at the possibilities of cost reductions and savings that free resources for service production to meet the needs of the population? I'm not saying that we're necessarily going to have a debate about the county council. However, we have many directorates who do a reasonable and certainly important job, but a similar job is done in the department. In central government as such, one must be willing to go in and see to what extent one can streamline the public sector. It is the job that needs to be done, and it does not necessarily have to be done by a separate selection, as proposed by the proposers. But the majority of those who are behind the position don't say the government can't do that either. It is therefore in many ways up to the Government which steps will be taken to resolve the issues in which the Committee agrees with the proposers. I therefore recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11.ana.ud2389e99	There is no disagreement that there are many challenges and many ways to tackle the problems, both in terms of creating more municipal autonomy, better division of tasks and more efficient government and municipal administration. What I think I experience in this matter is that the majority, and now the rapporteur, chooses to talk about something other than what is the premise and the starting point for this proposal. The starting point for this proposal is that there are a number of small detailed regulations that have been implemented both by legislation in Stortinget and through detailed legislation, through circulars, through everything that takes place in the various departments of trade to control the activity of individual municipalities. This greatly limits the possibility of finding own solutions, which, in turn, limits the ability to use resources efficiently, because they are locked to relate to, for example: national standards, which may not be applicable in each municipality. This cannot be tackled by discussing the division of tasks or the general modernisation of the public sector. This must be done by going through legislation and circulars and looking at what is needed or not. We do not disagree with that, and we have actually been involved in both setting up the Task Distribution Committee and, together with the Workers' Party, proposing to the Modernisation Committee. But we see that there is a need for another tool to do the job of cleaning up locally. It was also the starting point for the debate on the local democracy statement, in which a proposal, as mentioned by the case-rapporteur, was put forward, asking for a review of sectoral legislation. But then the ministry has notified back on this proposal, in a way that cannot be interpreted differently than that the ministry at that time refused to implement it. In the context of the Community economic proposal, the Ministry reports back the following: A new general review of existing legislation is not considered appropriate. Currently, a number of important legislative areas are under review and renewal. This applies, inter alia, to: health and education. Common to projects with such an objective as: reducing the level of detail management in municipalities is that they will not be able to address all the professional issues included in a general revision of each law. The Ministry considers that phases I and II of specific legislation, as well as the new government guidelines, are in line with the Storting decision on a specific programme for the revision of sectoral legislation that imposes detailed requirements on municipalities. We understood that the ministry would not follow the proposal that the majority had adopted. According to all parliamentary practice, since the majority did not repeat the proposal, it is also not a parliamentary decision. That is why we promoted this document No. The 8th proposal. We felt that there was a need for a different methodology, there was a need to find another way to get the public interest and community interests stronger on the ground than to let the same bureaucrats in the departments review their own legislation. According to KS, the detailed management measured in new laws, regulations and regulations that control municipalities has increased by 46 pst. of 1992. So the same departments and the same bureaucrats had to do the same with a different starting point. When we get such a clear response from the Department at the Council of State that you don't think there is a need for this – it's pointed out that there have been two rounds earlier in the 1990s – we don't think it's right to go through the department directly. We do not disagree that these are political choices, and that will always be. What will eventually change will, of course, be a political issue. But our starting point is that the decision-making basis on which we have to make the political choices must also be based to a greater extent on the fact that the interests of the municipalities have been highlighted, that the effects of these rules on local government have been highlighted, and that there will be an open discussion on all the details. You don't have to have so much knowledge of professional sociology or know so much about the power investigation from the previous round to know that it's very comfortable for those who have sector interests to deal with a strong state and that it's the premises of the departments that form the basis. In that case, the sector interests are largely passed on. The fundamental analysis in the previous power investigation has precisely been on the strength of the professionals, trade unions and others to define the legislation in their field on the basis of professional questions, but also on the basis of other interests. This means that one often has a strong desire for national legislation, rather than having to deal with 435 municipalities that might think creatively. When we wanted an independent selection based on a composition in which the municipalities were to be strongly represented by expertise on general issues such as law and economics, and which could go through the need for rules in the different areas according to the model of the Food Law Committee, it was to have a premise for this treatment that was not necessarily the sector premise – it is going to come to the next process anyway. The Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education will take care of their interests in any process. But you should have the strength of the investigation piece in the beginning that you might have asked the a little bit more naive questions: why is all of these regulations necessary? Could it not be that one had confidence that the individual municipalities also safeguarded the interests of the inhabitants? You are, after all, chosen by the same inhabitants who generally choose those who sit on the Stortinget. The majority's position here is based on my view either on a naive understanding of how decision-making is actually taking place in public Norway, or on the fact that it is important to say that we are too local self-government, we are too effective use, but we really don't want to, because we think we're the best self-government. Sometimes I suspect that the last one is right. We have an ongoing debate relating to the freedom of local authorities and the desire to limit legislation and sectoral governance, but it does not seem to me to be very important, for example. in the debates of Stortingen. Those who heard the Workers' Party's Questionnaire in the oral Questionnaire yesterday to the Minister for Health of the Municipality of Oslo to turn the hospitals into a limited liability company did not hear a single hug that the municipalities might be competent to choose this for themselves. They only heard questions related to the fact that the Minister of Health had to make sure that the Municipality of Oslo did not make a voluntary choice in an area and a sector that has already been run on the financing side and which has already been run on the medical coverage page through the Medical Distribution Committee. Almost the only freedom of choice left for state politicians is in the case of the organisation of the hospital sector as such. That you shouldn't have municipal freedom to do it yourself was a major theme in the oral questioning process yesterday. I think there is a very strong need to make sure that the decision-making process in Norway is reversed in view of a stronger involvement of local authorities. This does not mean that you should always choose municipal self-government, or always refrain from granting individual rights through the law. We notice it in many areas also in the right. The important thing is that the basis for decision-making becomes open and that the interests of the municipal sector are more clearly highlighted. We think we're going to have to enter a process with an independent sample that can carry out these reviews. Now I have registered that the Council of State has reversed the need for a new review in relation to what was said in the municipal economic proposition. I think that's positive, because then I expect you to get a new revolution on it. But I regret to say that I have little faith, no matter how good intentions the Council of State has to put more emphasis on limiting governance, that she will be able to do more of it in terms of government, professional interests and the decision-making structure we have, than Lars Sponheim, as Minister of Industry, is able to do in terms of reducing the form field. Because that's the exact same thing as talking about. The screenplay, which every party at one time or another has had a suggestion that we should do something about – at least in my period at Stortinget, I think we have all been co-sponsors about this – is still increasing every year. Why? Because it's so hard to intervene in these regulatory processes, of forms and everything else in public if we think that everything should be governed politically, and that we don't have to make any other way of making decisions. What I think is most unfortunate about the decision that the majority is going to make today is that it means that it will be a long time before we can look forward to some particular degree of simplification of this legislation, and that the municipalities get less strength in the political resolution attached to it. I hope the Council of State is trying to find appropriate ways here. We were going to add a columbi egg to this debate. But making sure that you have someone outside the political decision-making process that provides the basis for which choices you make and make your own premises would be necessary if we were to get speed on what's going on simplification to the municipalities. In essence, this is about spending the money we have in the public sector, best possible, and at the same time doing local democracy a service by not so many people being frustrated by being locked up in all areas, because there is a bureaucrat in the county, or a bureaucrat in a department, who narrows down the action space in the municipalities and makes it impossible for them to have room for their own solutions. Fortunately, in the past, the right has had an impact on another proposal, at least to carry out some pilot projects around the municipalities relating to freedom from sectoral legislation. At least I have the hope that we can get real projects with a high degree of freedom, precisely because we can see that it might not be so dangerous if we leave to municipal politicians and state politicians in this country to decide more, as long as we still have a county municipality. I would like to address the proposal referred to in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11.ana.ud2389e135	Erna Solberg has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11.ana.ud2389e138	The proposal to set up a separate and independent selection to look at the possibilities of reducing the high number of legal provisions and regulations currently governing municipal activities is a good and correct proposal. The Progress Party therefore supports this proposal as it has been designed. For the Progress Party, it is important to indicate that the party wants to strengthen municipal autonomy, not only in words, but also in action. Today, when we know that each of the 435 municipalities in the country has nearly 6,000 different legal provisions, regulations, circulars and other regulations that all govern their daily activities, it may hardly be too much for us to look into this, among other things. by means of a separate and independent selection with such a mandate. Reducing the huge number of laws and regulations currently governing municipalities is important both for the efficiency of municipalities and for creating a more decentralised power structure within the democratic governance of the country. It is therefore time to try to take some measures that can contribute to such a development. In this way, the proposal is interesting, and it could be part of a strategy for increased municipal self-government and self-government, while contributing to red tape and possible efficiency in the municipal sector. Unfortunately, local democracy has been and continues to be in a continuous process in which the local economy is on the wane of strong central political governance. The question is also not only about bringing decision-making powers and freedom of action back to the municipal level, but also about people's interest and motivation for active participation in the administration and administration at the municipal level. Too few people want to participate in a rail democracy on the local level when you see that one is deprived of almost all power and governance at the municipal level. Local authorities must therefore become something more than administrative bodies for the implementation of national plans. In fact, municipal politicians and local councils are in the process of becoming redundant when both their views, wishes and proposals are often subordinated to the many laws and regulations that the municipal bureaucrats subsequently manage on behalf of central authorities. For a long time, the municipalities have been trapped in a spiral of red tape where the municipalities have been increasingly run by the elected and increasingly run by bureaucrats through the huge law and regulation that bureaucracy itself administers. The power of bureaucracy is, in fact, far greater than that of local politicians, and this is a very unfortunate development from a democratic point of view. There is therefore a great need to address this development, as such development actually stimulates municipal inaction and results in decreasing initiative and ability to solve own problems based on local conditions and adaptations. Calling on the state in all contexts is actually becoming the rule rather than the exception at municipal level, because the municipalities have in fact been deprived of responsibility for their own situation. It would be much more motivating for local politicians if responsibility and freedom of action for their own situation became more crucial both for the economy, welfare and service levels of the municipality. Of course, some increased differences we could have to accept, but in any case we could filter in a national standard to make sure that we have an equivalent level of service and services out in Municipality-Norway. If it is possible to reduce the large number of laws and regulations that currently govern much of what is happening daily in municipalities, a person should use all available means to see if anything can be done in this context. I think you can gain from a more decentralised political power structure that could both revitalise, streamline and stimulate the municipal level. One could, of course, draw this debate very far. In order to come back to the proposal itself, pointing out that a separate and independent sample should review the laws, regulations, circulars and other rules which unnecessarily restrict municipal autonomy, it is of course based on a desire and a strong will to do something about the problems I have raised. The Progress Party will find it, inter alia: for the reasons to which I have referred and the reasons to which the proposers refer, correctly agree with the proposal as it has been designed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11.ana.ud2389e153	As one of the proposers said earlier in the debate, one could discuss whether this is a methodology in order to get a review of what we all seem to agree on, namely the need for simplification. In a society like ours, there will always be a need for a series of laws, regulations and regulations. What should the community determine, and what should the individual determine? What values should we build on in our legislation? How strong should solidarity and closeness be? Who's to rule? Is that the community of politicians? Is it the market to have greater power, capital, international companies, or are there organisations? Or should each individual have his own success as a blacksmith? We need a simpler Norway, primarily for the sake of democracy, for the sake of local democracy. It's a pleasure for a whole committee to express this. We need a simpler Norway for individual citizens, and we need a simpler Norway for business purposes. It is necessary to give our local politicians more power than they have today, and Document No. The 8 proposal is an expression of a desire to give local democracy and local politicians more power. That means that we as central politicians must be willing to use ear tagging to a lesser extent. We have to be willing to reduce the number of laws and regulations. It's been tried and expressed by the government that you want to do something about this. Not only does the government want it, but it also comes with concrete measures. It is invited to test in 20 municipalities, with framework transfers instead of ringing with the nitite follow-up of rules and regulations that you then get. There is a procedure in the introduction of new laws and regulations, as stated in the letters of the Council of State, so that we can reduce the scope of new rules, and a review of old laws and regulations is also under way. The Government of the Council of State has launched a dialogue with KS in connection with the budget. I assume that, in conjunction with the Municipal Councils and the Municipal Councils, the Municipal Councils have a rapid, comprehensive and detailed review of the legislation with the aim of achieving a significant reorganisation – yes, a halving should be a goal. At the same time, I am concerned about moves by, among other things, The National Audits' review of some things. There you get criticism because you do not check carefully enough, and because you do not care that the money goes where they are going, even though they have been transferred as framework appropriations. What does this lead to? Well, it leads to new rules and regulations and new burdens on municipal self-government, with increasing red tape as a result. The goal, which we all agree on, is precisely increased service production and local self-government. In the interests of our citizens, we are all expressing our desire for a 'one-door policy'. Public service needs to be more service-minded if it is to be able to provide services in relation to citizens. The public is there to serve the inhabitants. It must not be the case that a person still in this country is to be sent from one municipal office to another, whether in the case of the social services, the construction offices, the nursing, rehabilitation and care offices. People must be able to get the ministry in one place. The same applies to the country, which sends its clients or users from the employment office to the social security offices. The service offices, which we are concerned about, are becoming an important tool. Finally, our business life, as debaters have been involved, also needs a smaller form, and it is my hope that the Government's way of addressing this will produce results. But that it is a difficult and heavy job because there are many counterpowers among us also central politicians, there is no doubt about it. I have no faith that a new selection will take this job. This job must be done primarily by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11.ana.ud2389e170	It is gratifying that all the parties in the municipal committee are required to do something as monasteries to eliminate unnecessary detailed management of activities in the municipal sector. And it is gratifying that the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs so strongly expresses the same thing, taking into account the efficient use of resources and the consideration of the local government. The central party believes that it is urgent, and trusts that the government is now putting power behind the work announced by the Council of State. The fact that there is considerable resistance in the departments and the civil service to giving municipalities more freedom and responsibility is a well-known matter. The government now has a solid back cover in Stortinget to make changes as monsters. And the Central Party believes that there will be best progress in the work on the procedure that the Department has outlined. It is also well known that the positions of the other technical committees here on the Stortinget are different from those of the Municipal Committee. And I think that applies to all parties. Therefore, continuing to do so requires better documentation of the disadvantages. I think the Ministry should ask the Municipal Councils to provide such evidence both of bureaucratic individual schemes and of the overall efficiency gain that is possible. I think it should make an impression on the champions of ear tagging in the school sector the example I heard here a day. It was a municipality that received NOK 37 000 for the training of teachers, and that, in order to get the money, had to go through a very formal work and various internal treatment – as well as that people in government agencies were able to stay up longer and control and control. Another example was the health sector, where professionals are also champions of more designation. A county municipality received a 12-page letter of allocation for the means of re-training in the health sector. To get 57 000 kroner they had to work out their own goals, their strategy, their plans and their reporting, and this was going to happen again and again. In total, the picture is this in terms of ringing: in 1987, 5 pst. of the income of the local government sector earmarked. It was at the time that we got the new municipal law that would give greater freedom to the municipalities. In 1993 it was 10 p.m., and in 1999 it was 14.4 p.m. That, I think, is a dramatic development. But even more dramatic is that we are going to have an increase in this figure as a result of the full phase-in of the older reform and the new health reforms that we have just adopted in Stortinget. I think the Right Initiative in this matter is positive, but as I have been involved, I think such an independent selection is not the way to go. That's what I think it's going to take longer to get this job done. But I do not agree in any way with the press releases that would indicate the Right was better than others in this matter. Like other parties, the right has been positive in the municipal committee, but then there have been increases in a wide range of earmarked grants through work on other committees. It has been impossible to get support from the Right to increase free framework transfers, and that is what needs to be done. We have to reduce, among other things. the designation and increase the free revenues. A rapporteur's call for the future of local democracy has recently been adopted, and it is now being spread throughout the country as a bid. It shows that the rapporteurs, the Municipal Committee and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs are in line. I believe that the impatience of local politicians is now so great that it will ensure a great pace in the broad review that is now under way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11.ana.ud2389e187	There are important questions the proposers have raised in their document proposal, and I have to admit that on the SV side we have been in doubt whether we should support it or oppose it. It is because we see, as the proposers have pointed out many times, that there is too much detailing, that there is too much paper produced and too few services in some areas, and not least that there is too little room for finding local good solutions across. The school is an example of high levels of reporting and controls taking more and more of the time that should have gone to students — association with students, guidance and education. From the classrooms, there is a great deal of frustration about this. What becomes a cross of thought for me is that those who are now asking for simplification are the ones who want to control more in this area. This can be done on a case-by-case basis. You want to check because you don't like the service, sometimes you want to check because you want it to be more of the service and that the money goes exactly where you want it. There's a lot of dilemmas here. Personally, I've worked a lot on unemployment issues, and I see very well how the rules in these areas can prevent good cooperation between levels of government and agencies in order to get quick on action that is individually targeted and effective in the sense that you get the one who's available, to be motivated to take education, to school, to try to work together with training, etc. There are many measures that can be taken here, and regulations often shut you down – but also money, of course, we must not forget that. It's probably the way that the solution to some of the areas I'm pointing at actually requires the public to make a lot of effort. It's legislation, but it's also about being willing to spend money in this system. Sometimes I get a little feeling that when you want to get rid of some rules, it's also to get rid of some obligations, so that the public by having fewer obligations compared to the members of society, not only should be able to solve their money problems, but also get less to do. Of course they get that, but then you end up with a different municipal sector than SV wants. It is probably also easier to go to work very dramatically here when you have a political desire to reduce the public sector, to do fewer tasks, to limit your activities to pure service provision, across what SV believes, namely that the public sector and the municipal sector should be the most important development areas and those that are widely involved in community construction. Then a broad perspective is required, resources are required, and freedom is required. It has been said from the proposers that the interests of the municipalities are to be safeguarded by this proposal. I'm not going to suspect that. I also see that it is, and I see that this is a great interest in the municipalities in order to be able to handle their tasks more freely. My experience is also that in the municipal sector there has been a loss of just as good backbone, morals and interest in ensuring good schooling, good care for the elderly, a good environment, etc. like what you have when you are elected to the Stortinget or in government. So I'm really not so worried about that. What worries me more is that, in fact, a review of this issue without looking at what the public sector is actually going to do, could end up with a justification that the municipal sector should be given even less resources based on the political desire for the municipal sector to do fewer tasks. In addition, I agree with the rapporteur that such a theme cannot only be seen in isolation for the municipal sector. Just because the different sectors, levels of government and agencies in so many areas interact, I think it is most appropriate to carry out the major review first to see if it is possible to decentralise – especially with regard to the sectored state – much more strongly than we have done today. After all, we can greet each other with the fact that the last time we meant this, we were not with you, and that everyone agrees on this, but when we make proposals, we do not get a majority for them. I can only remind you that SV has promoted a lot of proposals last year on the real decentralisation of power to both municipal and county levels. This concerns the transfer of responsibility and through it also money. Thus, there is much greater scope for coordination across sectors, and then it is much easier to remove legislation that is only suitable for managing sectoral budgets and ensuring that sectoral budgets are balanced, because there is a lot of this going on. If you moved the responsibility e.g. For road offices, labour market offices, agricultural incomes, transport planning – I can mention in flæng – down into the municipal system, it would therefore be much easier to get rid of the legislation with the aim of reducing it. At the same time, you could reinforce the rights of the individual as a citizen of society, but you wouldn't need all these detailed governance mechanisms. There is a narrowed room for action for local democracy, it is said. But I would also like to point out that very much of this space of action is narrowed precisely because there is a political desire behind saving money. If you, for example, is very detailed about the money that could be put into a pot to ensure that people enter a career of competence, a training course, and do not go unemployed, it is an extensive political wish of the majority in this room that less money should be spent on some of these important areas of those who could channel money into such a pot. Thus, by initially increasing resource use, you might end up with less resource use in total. It is therefore necessary to allow the sector boundaries to be broken and to look beyond some of the detailed legislation that has been established with the aim of not using a krone in addition to the specific areas defined. The social security system is like that. The seat of the labour market has such a system. As far as social assistance is concerned, there is a certain room for discretion. In the education sector, there is also a rather narrow framework. I have undoubtedly joined the majority in the matter. It is primarily because I want a comprehensive review of the tasks first and believe that this is the right basis to be able to break down the detailed legislation afterwards, with the aim of being able to significantly simplify this, but not with the aim of reducing public commitments and services to individual citizens, the objective must be, on the contrary, a better safety net and a much more efficient safety network, so that we can offer better and more services than today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11.ana.ud2389e204	There are many ways in which we have a debate that is going on at two levels. One is a more substantive debate on the relationship between the state and the municipalities, and the other is a methodological debate on how to achieve what appears to be agreed. I think it might be a point to suggest that the disagreement about methodology can overshadow that there is also an actual and clear disagreement on the content. And it's not given that the dividing lines here will go in the same way as what becomes the dividing lines votering on a question that is more related to the methodical. The government has put a simpler Norway on the agenda. This has strong support from the Left. And I'm glad that the representative Ivar Østberg used a substantial part of his post to just highlight the point of a simpler Norway. A simpler Norway has first and foremost a side to its citizens. People's daily lives will be easier to deal with; it will be easier to deal with public administration. But a simpler Norway also has a side to a more rational administration, an administration that better fulfills the tasks that the administration has to perform in relation to its citizens. In my opinion, it is very central in working with a simpler Norway to make the legislation simpler in the relationship between the state and the municipality. There will be a way to strengthen local self-government, and there will be one way to further the two other objectives ahead: to give a simpler life to individual citizens and to provide more rational governance. It is also important — perhaps most in the interests of local self-government, but also of rational resource management — to give greater opportunity to allow conflicts to occur in each municipality, local government or county council. And I think, in fact, that simplifying legislation towards municipalities is really going to make a significant contribution to strengthening the municipalities' economy, and with the same money consumption, giving greater room for municipalities to better solve the statutory tasks, but also giving greater room to carry out non-statutory tasks. If we're going to go into this issue and really achieve results, I think it's very important to stress the ongoing dilemma, namely the demand for equality everywhere in Norway. If you are not willing to say that a strengthened local self-government and fewer rules between the state and the municipality also mean accepting some inequalities between the municipalities, then you really won't get anywhere with this work. At least we have to be clear from the fact that equivalence is more important than equality, and I think maybe we should also accept that you won't always be able to achieve equivalence either. If the local government in one municipality wants to strengthen one area instead of another, and another municipality wants the opposite, then we actually have to be willing to accept that this may be the case. So it's probably actually going to be a political disagreement that in many ways goes by different lines than exactly the divisions that we're going to get from voting here today. I also think that we should be somewhat open to the fact that in these questions there are also different forces that work within the Government and the departments and, for that matter, also in this House. It is quite typical that this is a matter handled by the municipal committee. It's natural enough, it could have been difficult for any other committee that had done it. It is a debate that is largely held among the members of the municipal committee, with one exception for my own part – it is primarily due to the fact that the left is not represented in the municipal committee – and I noted that my successor in the debate here today is also not a member of the committee. I think one should be pleased that there are also some outside the municipal committee who are going into this. I think that looking at Stortinget's work with a number of laws, the result is not a scheme for less detailed management in the rules after the law passed the Stortinget, compared to what was in the proposition that was promoted by the Government. I think that also applies to laws that have been dealt with in the last year or the time that this magnification has been collected. I think we're going to be very open and honest about the fact that part of the problem lies in the fact that if you're concerned about a particular area of policy, whether it's now out of interest or because you're simply placed in such a way that you're going to work on it, yes, you'll see it as better to take care of this area if you get clearer laws and rules that say something about it. There is also a very clear risk that, as some press groups work towards Stortinget, they often have an effect in the direction of increased detail management. It is probably also true that most municipal ministers – if they had the opportunity to talk openly about their experiences, and perhaps more so after leaving than while sitting as a municipal minister – would be able to give many examples of how the municipal and regional departments have tried to take care of the municipalities and the municipal self-government and have sometimes won, but – worryingly – perhaps more often lost in violation of other government councils that have just wanted to achieve a good purpose in a specific area. Therefore, I believe that something should be done in this area, it is very important that the role of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs in relation to the municipalities and the tasks to be performed by the municipalities is strengthened. But I actually think that a little bit of the problem can also relate to the municipalities themselves. I don't think we're going to completely overlook that in the municipalities maybe it's almost too much loyalty to what comes from the state. One thing is promise, you have to keep them. The same applies to regulations. At least I don't want to stand on this platform and encourage you not to stay informed about them. But what can be a real problem is that many municipalities have developed a culture and an opinion that what is produced by circulars and guides is perceived to be at the same binding level as laws and regulations. It's actually wrong, and it's going to be very unfortunate if this is the attitude. A former Danish Ombudsman for the administration gave a very clear example of that from Denmark, where the municipalities had complained about too detailed legislation in the social field. Then they got a law that significantly simplified it, and then the municipalities said they couldn't practice it until they got a circular with guidance. It was written with guidance, and then the guiding principles that were given there were practised that much more loyally than you had ever dealt with the previous law. So this is about making each municipality aware of the room for action that, after all, is also in today's legislation. We should be aware that there are sectors in the municipalities as well, and people who are employed to care for one area, whether it be school, health, social services or whatever it may be, will often experience that they can draw out the support they think they can get out of what comes from the ministry, and can use it internally in the municipalities. So I think a significant point is to challenge the municipalities to make greater use of the space they have today, also in relation to being active in detecting and bringing out the unfortunate aspects of detail management. Then I've said a lot about what is kind of underlying issues in this. As far as the proposal itself is concerned, I am well on my way in the same situation that Karin Andersen stated on behalf of SV, that there might be cause for some doubt as to what would be the most reasonable. What makes me a little worried, as it has often been shown, is that when you have gone into this wide, you may initially have had proposals that have changed a lot, but as they are being treated, the changes are being reduced. I believe that the most important thing here is to address this issue in the daily work of the Departments, and that the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs in that context is trying to fulfil its function and role in this as well as possible. After all, it could give you more results than trying to go the other way. I think that some of the problem in that context, if you were to go into these questions in a proper and proper way, is that we probably wouldn't just need one sample, but we would need a series of samples with a common overall objective. In conclusion, I would say that we should be able to do something here, all of which seem to be in agreement, the most important thing is that we ourselves are willing to dry. We have to be willing to dry and accept some inequalities and not say that the state has to go in and solve all the questions where one has to find some injustice, or some problem around the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11.ana.ud2389e238	It was interesting to hear an experienced administrative lawyer. He's been into a lot of things that I also thought I'd say something about. Many people perceive such a proposal as Karin Andersen has perceived, that here one will limit the power of the public and allocate less money to the public. It's clear that there's a way to simplify administration. When you get fewer problems, there are fewer regulations, and that's to the extent that I can agree to a good recipe. There's an obvious tool here, and it's very political. These are also other instruments. This principle of equality has already been mentioned in Norwegian society, which is probably due to its structure, geographical extent and variations in the natural nutrient base. But it is clear that implementing the principle of equality in health care, schools, kindergartens, social services, etc. will, of course, limit the freedom of each municipality to do as it wishes, according to its priorities and circumstances. As the representative Hove here has pointed out, this principle of equality that rides us brings with it a stream of regulations to ensure that this equality is maintained. It also has another negative side, and that's that good ideas can't rot in Norway, because everyone has to act the same way. In other circumstances where one could experiment and stand freer to choose solutions that were liberated from the principle of equality, it might be that several better ideas appeared in different municipalities, and that could eventually spread when others heard about them. That's the other problem. The third problem is this ringing. There are earmarked grants for immigrants, and there are earmarked grants for kindergartens, because in Norway, kindergartens are considered one of the most important things in the world. But as the problem of the elderly and sick has become more and more urgent, it has also been understood that it is very important, and then you start with the earring there as well. I must say that I was against earring when I came into Stortinget, I thought there were some terrible things. But when I realized that there were people in this room who thought that kindergartens were so much more important than care for the elderly, I went in for this ear tag to continue. And then one draws the other. If you first switched on earrings, you say that one is just as important as the other, and you turn to the electoral group that this is about, and you don't want to be overlooked. And then you get this chain reaction. If you first turn to ringing, you have to be aware that in order for this money to be paid, you also have to give rules on how to use it, and then you have this chain reaction going on. What remains after these three things I have mentioned here -- yes, yes, that's a certain simplification, it's largely completely unpolitical, and a certain rationalization, but it's very technical, and politically perhaps quite uninteresting. So I basically agree with those who claim that this is a problem that needs to be solved from the top. For whom else would it really be solved? It's a big problem. But this proposal may bring some positive things within a relatively tighter framework.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11.ana.ud2389e253	This debate has in itself developed into a very interesting debate, with many proposals on principles of how to organise the public sector or not. However, I am pleased to hear someone who has expressed to the Council of State how to integrate the specific interests of the municipalities into the desired simplification work. That is what is the main purpose of the proposal itself, what is involved in methodology. We agree that we can discuss all these major issues that have been discussed, about the size of the public sector and equality or not, while the big question now is obviously about going into and solving the problems that many encounter in their everyday lives as municipal politicians. It's actually not the very big lines, because in terms of the detailed task we're going to do, there are so many rules to deal with that you feel that you have a very limited freedom of action. And I don't think you necessarily have to solve the more pragmatic problem from the top. The most important thing in making decisions in our society – and where Left disappoints me a little – is that you have to create an opinion in relation to, for example, the municipal sector and the municipal self-government. The most important thing about our proposal has been to create an opinion, it is not reflected in the usual legislative production, because it creates transparency and establishes a civil society debate related to why we get too much governance in the individual sectors. I think it's a little strange that in this debate you don't have a bigger perspective on how decisions are made in our society, that you don't see the municipal sector with its 435 municipalities becoming a balancing position in relation to the overall interests, because they're not the precursors. We should be involved in this debate in making the local and local authorities' interests more prominent. I just want to say that, because it creates a lot of interesting issues. We will never in our society be able to solve the problem of equality versus municipal autonomy, simply because the municipalities have become the biggest welfare producers we have. And there it's always going to be a voltage field. But the question is, how do balance improve? I hope that the Council of State, since she has now decided to carry out a review of this, can say a little about how one intends to organise this, so that one gets a counterbalance to the sector interests of the work being done. Minister of Industry Sponheim has repeatedly tried to include fewer questionnaires. However, the latest statistics also showed an increase in the last year, so even the most important flagship with which he entered the ministry, he is unable to obtain, because this is obviously a major counter-force or too poor follow-up to the internal instructions, because there is also a clear instruction on what to check and check before establishing a new questionnaire.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11.ana.ud2389e263	First of all, I would like to say that I am pleased that an overall committee now supports the desire to review the detailed state legislation, which means that scarce municipal resources are bound to carry out tasks in ways that are not appropriate for the municipalities. Furthermore, if these rules are not necessary for the sake of national governance, there is no reason to maintain them in their present form. I have recorded that a joint municipal committee believes that the time has come for a new review of state bonds to the municipal sector, but there is disagreement about, and there has been a debate on how this can be done most appropriately. I record that the Right Party and the Advance Party want such work to be carried out under the authority of a public authority. The other parties represented in the Committee support such work but recommend that no new investigative committee be appointed to do so. I have carefully assessed how this work should be put up most appropriately. After working for some years here in Stortinget, and before that in municipalities and county councils, as well as now having gained experience from working in government – I think I'm starting to know the departments quite well – I probably don't have a naïve understanding of how the systems work. I'd like to sign it out. It was suggested instead that those who did not want a public sample were a little naive. To be honest, I might as well turn it around; we don't need any more investigations. We actually know quite exactly and quite a lot about where it goes. We've had several investigations that can prove it. It adds to the will to make political choices that lead to simplification. I'm not saying it's an easy process. But I say that if we're going to get something out of this, at least without spending too much time and too much money on a public sample, we have to start making some political decisions. That's why I'm here, and I'm glad that the government has now also decided that we should start that job. In these days, the government has decided — in fact, we have already started to put it in place — to launch projects across all the departments concerned. We conduct a critical review of state bonds vis-à-vis municipalities and county municipalities. The work shall be governed and coordinated by a separate State Secretary's Committee, which shall be chaired by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. I will come back to the details of that project in the context of the municipal economic proposal for spring, and I expect that in the spring of 2000 we will be able to present a comprehensive report to the Stortinget on the outcome of this work. Then, of course, the Storting must make the elections and make the decisions. Each department has been entrusted with the task of presenting relevant legislative proposals for changes and otherwise also with the responsibility of taking the necessary decisions on amendments to regulations, etc. It has been called for how the local government sector can be involved in the work, and I can assure you that there will be an important job to do. We're going to involve the municipal sector, i.e. KS, in this work along the way, and I think we've already managed to establish both a good and open cooperation with the KS. It's going to go on, and I'm going to be able to draw big turns on the points of view and experience that KS has. Let me also stress that in this work attention is not only focused on formal legislation contained in laws and regulations. Government orders to the municipalities in the form of e.g.: conditions for the payment of grants, requirements for specific plans, performance requirements or own reporting schemes shall also be reviewed for the same purpose, namely to remove or modify schemes that impose unnecessary constraints on municipal resource use and provide little local space for action. In the government's view, it is, as I said, political decisions that must be taken in order for us to cope with the simplification of the rules that we are now initiating. Of course, when it comes to ear-marked products, we'll also do a review of them. The integration grant granted to municipalities when they are to settle refugees and asylum seekers is not earmarked for information purposes only, so that there is no left-over earmarked grant. Let me also remind you that in March last year, the government adopted rules on how the departments would work to simplify the regulations. In the case of circulars and guides based on departmental departments, it is also the case that they do not come to the Ministry of Local Affairs for consultation. But it's also the case that there's no obligation on the municipalities. I think it is right, as has been pointed out in the debate, that there are enough municipalities that believe that they are also obliged to follow these. It was clearly revealed when the free-dom attempt was under way, and the municipalities actually discovered that they had greater freedom than they initially thought they had. So there's a job to do on many levels here. Then, of course, we're waiting for the Task Distribution Committee's setting. I'm excited about it myself. There are also those who have called for the review of the Modernisation Committee and central government. I can assure you that the work is in progress, which is the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour and Administration. So after just a few weeks in the department I'm responsible for, I've been concerned about how we can simplify. That was also the background for me asking to make the presentation about local democracy last year, and I have worked systematically to get an impact on it. Now I am very pleased that the municipal committee is so unequivocally behind this. I have also noted with pleasure that it is not only the members of the municipal committee who are present in the Chamber today. I would like to see someone from the social committee and the church committee also participate in this debate. But I hope that the cross-political support we have now received will also prove to be there when, in turn, we come back with simplification proposals. Then it is important that the municipal committee speak with its colleagues in the trade committees in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11.ana.ud2389e289	That state council pointed to in the post she was making now, among other things. the important coordination work in the departments is incredibly important, and it will be exciting to see how it works. SV was very positive to the approach taken by the Government to focus on this, but with some concern has recorded that there is still enough coordination power and political power in the Ministry of Finance than elsewhere, and that it is still a long way to go before breaking these boundaries, looking at the outcome and ensuring that those who are to carry out the task in practice have the appropriate tools to help them achieve political goals. There have been many debates, but two of the debates are very different. One is whether it's the power of the finch over the policy we're about to see. Part of it is that one has gradually been given a well-developed rights system – which can be good and good for itself, but which can be problematic because it's detailed – and we've eventually also got a very up-to-date, well-trained and demanding population who know how to test their rights – and that's good. But sometimes the finch can take all the weight. The second debate concerns the issue of legal certainty, i.e. equality of law, which I perceive is quite different from an equivalent offer. The policy is the equivalent offer, which can be defined in different ways, where the objective is more important, while legal certainty is a much more detailed matter on how to deal with it, that there should be no arbitrary treatment, and that there should not be any difference between the citizens in the way they are treated in the system or in the way they are treated or in the way of direct services or benefits that they are entitled to. Then there will be a difficult balance, but I think that the issues of equivalence in the different areas, and the issues of legal certainty and not arbitrary treatment, are two different debates. Erna Solberg has two slightly different approaches to his proposal. On the one hand, she says that there are slightly smaller questions about this proposal, i.e. legislation and forms at local level that may not go so much in important policy areas, etc., and that this should be part of the big task that could be solved independently of taking a total review. But at the same time, Solberg points out that it is the municipalities that are supposed to be pre-missives in this, because there is an important political debate on how to solve tasks in society. And then there's two different things. I see that you can do both, but I could imagine that Erna Solberg said a little bit about this first or the last. If that's the first, it's a very limited task, which I've come to understand that the department is involved in daily operations. But if this is the second thing – and I agree with Solberg that it is important and right that the municipalities should be much stronger precursors for the important political debates – then we must have the overall review. That's what I think, for example. Many parties here should be far more responsive to what the municipalities say than they are today, because that's exactly what they are not. If the municipalities are allowed to be premiscuous for the important political debates, there will be no less health, there will be no fewer kindergartens, there will not be a worse school and less rights. So it's going to be more, because the municipalities, as I see them, are unique talkers because the people want and want more and better services and not fewer and worse. Then there will be a completely different debate than the one on the right in other contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11.ana.ud2389e300	I was challenged by Erna Solberg a little bit in relation to, I kept saying, the methodological side of this. I agree with Erna Solberg that it is important to be concerned about how to proceed in this work, and that it is also important to have a public debate on the issues and to establish an opinion in support of this. However, the question is: would it be the best way to get a sample like this to be included in the proposal? It doesn't necessarily have to be. But I'm going to be completely honest and say that it's not hard to see arguments for the proposal that lies here. The only question is whether they carry measures in relation to alternative approaches and methodologies. In this context, I must be allowed to say that I was very reassured by the statements of the Council of State in the sense that the methodology that she expressed there gives me clear faith that there should be such a good opportunity to achieve this work by addressing it in any other way. Then I am also encouraged by the Council of State to have in mind that in the meantime it would prove that it could be useful with such a sample, since there is no reason to leave it at a later stage. But what was basically a key point in my post, and which I think the Council of State also stated very clearly, was that some of the important thing in this anyway is the political will and, like that, the establishment of an opinion that will do something about this, because you actually have to fight down some counterpowers – I think we can just be honest about that. If I don't remember correctly, former State Council Berge said not long ago – approx. A year after he left as a municipal minister — something in the direction that he did not realize that the municipalities found out all the things that the state imposed on them, and all the detailed rules that they came up with. I think that political will is one of the most important things in this, and then we might have a slightly different view of how it can be established. But it is, I think, also very important to involve the municipalities – that you go into this work in individual areas and in relation to that, the municipalities are also involved in the work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11.ana.ud2389e307	As several speakers have pointed out, this has been a debate on several issues. It has made it clear that there is a broad consensus on the need for the review requested by the proposers, but it has also stated that there is a disagreement about the tools we need to use to get to this review. What's interesting, and we should be getting along with this, is that when the proposers show that the number of paragraphs in the law has increased by approx. 2 000 from 1992 to 1998, yes, each paragraph of the law has been adopted in this Chamber. We are the ones who have been involved in adopting every single paragraph of the law, which has contributed to this increase. In addition, we have the Control and Constitutional Committee, which often deals with the kind of issues involved in detailed regulation, control, etc. At each reading we have the opportunity to express the political will to make the simplifications and to contribute to the somewhat less detailed management that we are asking for today. It'll be interesting to see if we follow it up in practice. Then I think we're in on the description that the representative Gundersen gave, and that I think is very precise – that we have to show the political will to make the changes that are necessary. We're the ones that have to do them, that's what we have to focus on next time. – I may feel that we are at the end of the road.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11.ana.ud2389e319	Since Karin Andersen wanted an explanation, I'll try to give it. When I talk about the big review and the big questions, it's also like a reference to the Modernization Committee and the Task Distribution Committee. We do not believe that these samples should address the major issues, but that they should review sectoral legislation to find the actual legal requirements, regulations and circulars and everything else that regulates in detail the everyday life around the municipalities. However, there will always be things that will intersect for some of the areas. – This is just an explanation of the question from Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11.ana.ud2389e324	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 1916]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11.ana.ud2389e332	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11.ana.ud2389e514	During the debate, Ms Solberg put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to set up a sample to review laws, regulations, circulars and other regulations that unnecessarily restrict municipal autonomy, increase municipal bureaucracy or prevent municipalities from making targeted and effective use of their resources in order to solve the municipal tasks and improve the provision of services. The selection is assumed to be based on the model according to which the Industry Law Committee works.» We vote first on the proposal and then on the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11.ana.ud2389e564	Then Stortinget takes a break, and a new meeting is set at 0 p.m. 7:30.
