ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-lower.ana.ud1588e31	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-lower.ana.ud1588e38	I suggest Marit Nybakk.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-lower.ana.ud1588e43	Marit Nybakk is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Marit Nybakk is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-lower.ana.ud1588e60	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs, Culture and the Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that no line be given to the individual posts. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-lower.ana.ud1588e63	An overall committee has endorsed the proposals put forward by the Government for a new chapter of the adoption law, which regulates the adoption of Norwegian and foreign children. The proposals on foreign adoptions are primarily intended to clarify and clarify the system that we already have today. And in the case of domestic adoptions, some changes are proposed with a view to creating a more coherent system for the treatment of domestic and foreign adoptions. An overall committee would stress that adoption is to be done if it is beneficial for the child. The purpose of an adoption is to give children a safer and better upbringing. The selection of parents of children to be adopted is a very responsible and important task. The consequences of an adoption are great for the child, the original parents and adoptive parents. An adoption breaks the ties with the original family, and a new family is created. The Committee considers it important that those who receive adoption be subject to a strict assessment, stressing that applicants have the prerequisites and opportunities to provide a safe and harmonious upbringing for the child. As has been the case so far, national and foreign adoptions have been treated differently. An overall committee considers it appropriate to amend the delegation decision so that the authority to grant adoption authorisation, including for domestic adoption, is added to the State Youth and Adoption Office. It would be appropriate to pool knowledge and competences on both foreign and domestic adoptions. In this way, the Committee considers that one will receive the most equal treatment possible, while at the same time achieving an efficiency gain. A larger unit for the treatment of adoption requests will lead to more equal treatment of cases across the country. An overall committee believes that the need for regulatory regulation is greatest in terms of the adoption of foreign children. Often, there are large numbers of children from many different countries, and private organisations are involved. The adoption organisations have a very important task, and they provide support and assistance to applicants throughout the process. The tasks of the adoption organisations have increased and the Committee considers it appropriate to grant operational support to organisations by number of adoptions communicated. The Committee stresses that the adoption organisations should not have financial gain as intended. Municipalities also have an important responsibility for giving prior consent, investigating and recommending adoptions of children from abroad. Local authorities must ensure that they have competent case handlers in this field so that they can be treated in a fair and as equal manner as possible throughout the country. Finally, a majority in the Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, has noticed that in an inter-pelling debate earlier this year, the Council of State replied that the Ministry will now consider the best way to secure the question of how children living with a homophile and its partner can be trained, and we require a rapid follow-up from the Department.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-lower.ana.ud1588e89	In the opinion of the Progress Party, the adoption institute is a very important system in our society. We must take good care of that and have a well-functioning regulatory framework around it. In our opinion, the child's needs must be central and must be met in a thoughtful manner. The aim of adoption is for children in a difficult situation to get better. For the Progress Party, it is important to ensure that there are clear rules on the adoption of foreign children. It's not given that taking these kids out of their community and their culture is the best solution for the kids. Therefore, an adoption that has taken place in safe and proper forms will be the absolute best thing for the children who have come into the situation of their being adopted away. Such adoptions should focus on the rules established by the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child in order to ensure that the rights of the child are adequately respected. The Convention on the Rights of the Child points out that the best, rights and needs of the child are essential. Today’s adoption legislation imposes strict requirements on those who can operate with adoption mediation. This is also important for the Advance Party to maintain. Clear rules and controls are important to maintain the general confidence of those engaged in adoption, but it is equally important for the child, when it grows older, to know that adoption took the right form. When a person has control arrangements in place, it is important that they have a high level of knowledge both about children and about the countries from which children are adopted, which are allowed to drive communication. We have noticed that according to §4-23 of the Children's Protection Act, it is not allowed for private individuals to engage in intermediary activities for the placement of children with or without adoption for the purpose. This also applies to organisations which have not been authorised by the Ministry. The important thing, as I mentioned earlier, must be that adoption takes place in a clean and trusting way, and that we do not see unilaterally who is doing so. Several actors, including in this field, will lead to better quality and better user satisfaction. Therefore, private and organisations suitable for such activities should also be allowed to do so after having been authorised by the Ministry. It must be assumed that those who are allowed to operate this type of activity are fit and fit for it and that they will continue to be subject to continuous and effective control of those who have been authorised. Finally, I would like to propose the proposals of the Progress Party included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-lower.ana.ud1588e102	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-lower.ana.ud1588e105	An overall committee agrees that the selection of parents for children to be adopted is a very responsible and important task. I'm glad. The consequences of an adoption are great for both the child, the original parents and the adoptive parents. The bond of the original family is broken by adoption, and a new family is created. It must be the responsibility of the authorities to ensure a safe and healthy home for the child in the new family. I notice that, as part of this quality assurance, the Department is aware that there is a clear need to upgrade municipalities in terms of knowledge of challenges and specificities that may relate to being adopted abroad. In other words, the work is not done when adoption is completed. In order to safeguard the rights of children, the Christian People's Party believes it is right for adoption to be regulated in the adoption legislation, in line with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Hague Convention. The Christian People's Party is also pleased that the psychological aspects of adoption are increasingly being emphasised, and that it is equally important to meet emotional and material needs. The Christian People's Party is pleased with the Ministry's proposal for a new chapter of the adoption law which further regulates the adoption dissemination of Norwegian and foreign children. The Christian People's Party will also show that the ministry has just had a thorough review of the examination and approval of adoption homes. As a result, we received new guidelines in this field in September 1998. We are also well aware that the department is well-informed about how best to ensure that children living with a gay parent and his/her partner can live together. The divisions of the department investigate the technical and legal changes required by the different options, if any. The Christian People’s Party therefore finds no reason to support the proposal of the Workers’ Party and the SV, asking for a ‘wide review of today’s adoption law and its practice’.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-lower.ana.ud1588e122	Some amendments to the adoption laws have been necessary. Nevertheless, adoption shall only take place if it is beneficial for the child. The goal is to provide children with a safer and better-growth environment. No one should be entitled to adopt a child. Therefore, there is also a strong requirement for the searchers to be able to provide a safe and harmonious upbringing for the child. It has appeared that it has different handling when it comes to domestic and foreign adoptions. Therefore, it is right to amend the delegation decision so that adoption rights also for domestic adoption are added to the State Youth and Adoption Office. This should be done in order to pool knowledge and competences on both domestic and foreign adoptions and to achieve the most equal treatment possible. Such a central body will also be more able to equalise the handling of matters from all over the country. There should also be reason to consider whether a foreign adoptive child should be equated with Norwegian birth. Today, adoption parents receive NOK 22 000 in adoption contributions. Here, it might be right for the evaluation of cash support to consider providing support for these from the year after adoption, in line with the fact that a Norwegian-born child receives cash support the year after the maternity leave. The additional costs that it will represent to the adoptives should be able to offset in other fields without increasing the total costs. Such support can be decisive for adoptive parents, who on average pay $100,000 to get their foreign adopted children home. This will be a clear and consistent action that I hope the Council of State will evaluate. Otherwise, it will easily result in different handling of support for the first years they have with their parents. Equal treatment for children and adoption is also a matter of value selection. Today, parents who carry out the test tube method are covered by public expenditure on treatment. On average, it represents the same amount that adoptive parents pay off their own pocket to care for a child who is already born. Without weighing up the values against each other, this system tells us that in our society we are valued highly to let grown people take care of children, and that our society will also have more children. Every year, about 500 foreign adoptive children come to Norway. As far as it can be done, the government must ensure that children get a good and safe home in the future. The bonds of the original family have simply been broken, and a whole new family must be created. There is probably also a greater need for legal regulation when it applies to foreign children. This is about a large number of children from many different countries where private organisations are also involved. The main objective must always be that adoption should be in the best interests of the child and that organisations should not have financial gain as their objective.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-lower.ana.ud1588e145	Adoption is the only area in which one may require approval of the parent. Sometimes you might wish that those who have their own children should also be approved. But to prevent a debate with the Progress Party, I would add that it is not the Labour Party's policy. The main intention when adopting is that it should be done for the best interests of the child. The starting point is a better and safer growth and a legal right for the child. But it must be stressed that there should not in any way be a right and a requirement for any human being to adopt children. I am pleased that those who receive adoption are subject to a strict assessment, with a strong emphasis on the applicant having the prerequisites and opportunities to give the child a safe and harmonious upbringing. The Committee strongly agrees on the legislative proposals under consideration today. Disunity occurs only when you talk about gay and lesbian opportunities to be assessed as adoption applicants. I am pleased – despite what has been said in another debate today – that the Council of State in the Interpellation debate in Stortinget on 14 January said that she would be asking the question of how best to ensure the rights of children living with homosexuals and lesbians. It's a good step on the way. The working party is also concerned that today’s adoption legislation and practice will be widely reviewed. In fact, there is no doubt in the Labour Party that more knowledge is needed, as opposed to certain other parties in this Chamber. Earlier today, we have debated tolerance and equivalency in terms of gay and lesbian. It's just as important in this odyssey debate that we take into account the minority difficulties in all areas of life. The main objective of the adoption legislation is to ensure that adoption is not only to provide legal and social security for children, but it is very important for applicants for adoption to be given priority to safety and to ignore the form of life and sexual identity. The Workers’ Party and the SV therefore propose that the Government should take an initiative aimed at strengthening children’s opportunities for safe and well-growth, while at the same time providing more opportunities to be assessed as adoption applicants. I have come to understand that some parties want to vote against this, and that is why I am turning it into a transfer proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-lower.ana.ud1588e166	The representative of Grethe G. Fossum has addressed the proposal to which she referred, and the proposal has also been turned into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-lower.ana.ud1588e169	Initially, the changes proposed in this proposition are of a minor nature, but the matter also raises some questions of a principle nature. For the Advancement Party, it is important that the child’s needs are centered. In the event of adoption, the child’s ability to grow safely and well must be the most important factor in determining the issue of adoption. That is why, in our opinion, it is not appropriate for children to have a debate on changes in adoption legislation, for example. The rights of homofiles. It serves neither the children nor the debate on changes in adoption legislation. In adopting it is important that those who are to assist their parents and the child have a very good knowledge of both the area of origin, the area to which the child is going and the needs of the child. These points are the central ones, and those are the ones that need to be emphasised in an adoption. It is for this reason that the Progress Party in this case proposes to soften the rules for those who should be able to drive adoption, because there may be individuals or groups with a high level of knowledge about this. We can't see that there are any good reasons why they shouldn't be able to use their skills. That is why we need to simplify the legislation in this area, and it is therefore regrettable that it may seem that the majority is unable to support us in this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-lower.ana.ud1588e179	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 451]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-lower.ana.ud1588e193	The attitude of the family, culture and administrative committee to changes in the law on the coordination of pension and social security benefits provides a unanimous support for the proposal of the proposal. From my side, I would therefore like to pay attention to a general remark regarding the matter. Ot. pp. No 30 in a current legislative proposal to exclude the coordination of pension points in the national pension fund for care after the end of work and work after the age of 67 until the age of 70. The background to the proposal is the so-called negative coordination effect which arises in some cases where, although in the context of the proposal, it is small, the total payment can be less than if it did not have those points. For the sake of order, it has to be stressed that for most pensioners, pension points in the population's security will be profitable, but in some specific cases it will nevertheless have unintended effects. The proposition shows some examples of such a negative effect. In the proposition, the problem of negative effects has been further explained in detail without any further proposal to remedy this than the proposal on Section 23(3). 2 fifth paragraph. A unanimous committee, in its comments, expresses the unfortunate fact that coordination can sometimes be very different, both in a positive and a negative direction, for some pensioners. The so-called Coordination Committee, which has discussed the problem in detail, has pointed out that the possibility of a random coordination advantage will be reduced as most make up full parallel supplementary pension in the area of population protection. However, coordination will also be able to produce random results in the future. It was also the conclusion of the Coordination Committee that the negative impact problem should be acceptable within the current gross system. However, it is important to note that several options have been considered to address the problem of negative effects. The problem can be solved either by spending large sums of money on public pension funds or by stepping up coordination that will affect a large number of pensioners. It's assumed to be little time to go in some of these directions. At this stage, the Ministry has chosen to solve the problem for those who have earned at least 67 years of age and for those who have carried out care after the end of their professional activity. However, the Ministry opens up its proposal to assess whether the pension scheme can be designed in the long term so that all pension points earned in the social security system for care work, including unpaid care for their own children, should be excluded from coordination. This will require a detailed investigation for reasons of the implications, both in principle and in systemic terms. A question that needs to be considered is the extent to which it is desirable to make such points more favourable than points gained in other ways. However, there are opportunities for a statusal prioritisation of care activities, which could be of interest to be clarified. However, the Ministry did not wish to address major long-term changes in the coordination system, which would require more thorough preparation. A majority of the Committee has also pointed out that any exemption or special coordination rules will help to complicate the system and that an adjustment to correct one bias can easily create new ones. So fine is this system. Nevertheless, it is difficult to settle down with a system that results in adverse effects on certain groups of pensioners. In particular, as the Ministry points out, coordination rules are desirable to prevent low-earning people from coming out in a more coordinated way than those with a slightly higher record. At the same time, it is also not fortunate that the system of social security with a combined supplementary pension for surviving spouses should have such an effect. As late as 1 December 1998, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg adopted an order for the Government to review the coordination of public pension schemes and return to the Grand Duchy once the necessary investigation has taken place. There's every reason to understand that this is a very complicated work, which takes time. Nevertheless, it would be of interest to hear if the Council of State could say something more about how far it has come in terms of this review, and perhaps when a case can be expected in Stortinget. With this I just want to refer to the setting and comments in this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-lower.ana.ud1588e225	The right is in line with the changes that are now being made to the Coordination Act. These changes, which include pension credits for unpaid care and social security benefits after 67 years, are reasonable and do not give rise to significant financial consequences in total pension payments. However, the right has found reason to point out the lack of momentum and will that characterises the Government’s efforts to solve the problem of ‘negative effect’. We have received very many enquiries from pensioners who experience it as deeply unfair that the coordination law works so that they lose sight of the fact that they have earned and paid for supplementary pension from popular security. The ministry is aware of this problem and has been aware of it for many years, but nothing happens. We are told if the Council of State can then say that something is going to happen – at least we hope so. The Ministry concludes that it is best to maintain the current system of certain weaknesses rather than to intervene to resolve the problem of negative effects. Of course, this is a blow in the face of them, especially widows, who get less paid in pensions when they turn 67 than they do before the coordination rules turn out negative. In the opinion of the Right, it is profoundly unfair and extremely regrettable that the Government does not propose to do anything about this now. We have little understanding that those who have earned a relatively high supplementary pension should be left with less than those who have a low supplementary pension. This violates all known service principles. The Ministry also writes on page 23 of the proposal: ‘In the view of the Ministry, coordination rules would be desirable to prevent persons with low earnings from becoming more favourable in terms of coordination than persons with slightly higher earnings. ‘... But the conclusion is equally full that so far nothing is done. An overall committee also points to the problem of negative effects. The majority, all except the Advance Party and the Right, nevertheless conclude that this is something you are aware of, but will not do anything. We do not want to settle this problem and ask the Ministry to either promote legislative amendments or use the provision of a regulation on the relaxation of coordination given in 1992. Not later than during the examination of Document No. 8:93 in 1997-98 in the autumn of 1998, to which the rapporteur also referred, the Stortinget decided to ask the Government to review the coordination of the various occupational pension schemes and to submit its own case to the Stortinget. The right assumes that the Government will address the problem and come back with concrete proposals on how to solve the problem of negative effects. In conclusion, I would like to refer to what the State of Public Pensioners concludes in its opinion: ‘It should be a natural requirement for legislation that no one loses to earn, and pays for, pensions. Nor should the rules be changed, to the detriment of pensioners, for what has been earned before the change in the rules is implemented. Violations of this will easily undermine the trust of the pension scheme, and no one will be worthy of it. A pension scheme should be both predictable and reliable. ‘... The letter is signed Torolf Noise and Helge Seip. The right agrees with this conclusion and regrets that the majority and the Government continue this bias and injustice of the pension system. We hope now that this is taken into account. The size has had it for treatment several times, and it should be possible to find a simple and straightforward rule without complicate the system further.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-lower.ana.ud1588e258	In the case of proposals for amendments to Ot.prp. No 30, where increased supplementary pension can be excluded from coordination with a credited pension scheme under the National Social Security Act §3-16, and where the increase is due to the provision of social security benefits after withdrawal of occupational pension for the years that the pensioner reaches 67, 68 and 69 years, the Progress Party will support this. The evaluation carried out by the Progress Party during the examination in the Committee was whether we should re-examine the proposals previously promoted by us or whether we should wait until the review of the whole coordination system has been completed. The Progress Party has decided that, in this process, we will not take up the same proposals again, because the bulk of the population has now decided to have a complete review – this with the subsidiary support of the Progress Party. Therefore, we have decided that it would be most appropriate to wait for this review to take place. However, regardless of whether the Progress Party supports this review subsidiaryly, I would like to draw attention to the scepticism expressed regarding the progress of a total review, and would recommend at least that the Government of the State Budget for the year 2000 assess the intentions of Document No. 8: 93 for 1997-98, by representatives John I. Alvheim and Harald T. Nesvik, that pension benefits totalling less than 2G should not be coordinated under the law on the coordination of pension and social security benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-lower.ana.ud1588e265	I am pleased to have the agreement of the Committee on this matter. Even if we do not ensure that all detonation in the population is beneficial, the ignition of care points after cessation of work should be uncoordinated. The same thing shall happen after the age of 67. Public service pension schemes are so-called gross schemes. They usually guarantee a pension level of 2/3 of the final salary, including pensions from social security. This case applies to what comes in addition to the gross guarantee. In 1989, the Stortinget amended the coordination law. The objective was that only additional pension co-ordination deductions should be made from the social security funds set up by the member of the service pension scheme. This means that any emoluments from the public interest that have been lit by a deceased eczema which was not a member of the service pension scheme should be excluded from coordination. Thus, the coordination was more favourable for all surviving spouses with supplementary pension from a population-back based on both their own and deceased burns – so-called combined supplementary pension. This is mainly true of a number of countries. But the scheme also has the effect – which is also pointed to today – that it was more beneficial to some than to others, and we have got the phenomenon called negative effect. For people who have a higher final salary than the supplementary pension in the population, it is without the influence of the pensioner whether their own supplementary pension is large or small. This is due to the fact that the service pension scheme guarantees an overall performance in relation to the final salary. But for a living spouse, it will be an advantage that your own supplementary pension in the population is small, and that the meijting from the deceased spouse is tall. The reason for this is that own supplementary pension up to the final salary should be coordinated, while indulgences from deceased spouses should be kept out of coordination. The size of the site wanted to remove this effect in 1992. A general'Freelative'solution was developed as an option, but was not attached. A bonus solution means 55 pst. the supplementary pension awarded by the deceased must be kept out of the coordination of the surviving spouse with his or her own second pension. Such a solution would be very beneficial for those with a combined supplementary pension and would entail additional monthly costs for the public service pension schemes. In addition, she would have had adverse distribution effects and be little reasonable compared to what people who do not have combined supplementary pension receive. Instead, the Kingdom of Great Britain gave its permission to give a regulation to facilitate coordination in these cases. I understand that questions are asked about using this home to provide a prescription. The question will be asked: Hasn't the recipe been given a content? The reason for not giving a prescription is that it has been difficult to find solutions that are both reasonable and practical. The proposal shows that the cases have been distributed by several working groups, selections and pension experts. In two rounds of hearing, the Rikstrygdenwerk and all the public pension schemes refrain from providing such a regulation. They think she'll be too hard to practice. Employee organisations also understand this problem. They accept the effect as part of today's gross system. I notice that the representatives from the Progress Party here have a very special commitment. They also did not seem to have accepted the decision of the Supreme Court in Lassung-saka. This decision determines that there is no "error" in the current legislation. No person may pool pensions less than the gross guarantee provided by the service pension scheme. Thus, it is not right to say that someone is reduced in their service pension without being fully'remunerated' from the public interest. Nor will it be reasonable for service pension schemes in the public sector to compensate for the fact that the population does not pay out both full own pension and part of the supplementary pension from the deceased. The 1989 Act to make only co-ordination deductions for supplementary pensions from social security benefits, launched by the member of the service pension scheme, seemed reasonable and never provides benefits lower than the gross guarantee. But some pensioners get greater benefits than others. As there are more people with parallel ignition of service pensions and supplementary pensions in the population, there will be fewer cases of so-called negative effects. In a net system where the service pension is designed as a certain supplement to the population-backed regardless of the population-backage pension, there will be no such negative effect. There will be all the fumes in the people's world to be beneficial. As the Committee itself points out, one can achieve the same thing with a so-called standardised gross scheme, i.e. a deduction is made for a standard supplementary pension in the population's security. If this results in less compensation than that guaranteed by the gross guarantee, the service pension scheme covers what is missing. Such a system would be a monthly simplification in today's complex coordination system. Now that I've gone through history so far, there might be someone who thinks that all of this is a final and long defense that the government doesn't want to follow up the proposals that were made and adopted last year. To that I would say that the Storting has asked for a review. The size shall be reviewed. The Ministry has started a work that specifically addresses the coordination of those with low service pensions. I want to make sure that such a statement is presented to the Stortinget. I understand that questions are asked about the progress of the placement of the working group. The group shall have its term of office at 1 December. This will mean that the Storting should be able to expect a case, which is particularly true of those with low service pensions, to be brought forward in the spring of 2000. Finally, let me just stress that some total solution to the phenomenon has a negative effect so that any ignition in the population is beneficial, seems to be difficult to achieve in a reasonable way within the current gross system. The coordination selection goes in to keep the current system during observation and pronunciation: ‘If it is not possible to rest assured that the gross system, which ensures a high level of security for the civil servants for their pensions, also has these weaknesses, may be the option of introducing a net system for self-pension. For its part, the committee has observed that the organisations of officials are largely satisfied with the gross system. The price of the system is that, in limited areas, it is untransparent and complicated — the advantage is that it ensures a good level of pensions for all. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-lower.ana.ud1588e302	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 453]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-lower.ana.ud1588e310	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-lower.ana.ud1588e316	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. There is Amendment No 1, tabled by Mr G. Fossum on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left, and proposals No. 2 and 3, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party reads: ‘The Government is asked to initiate a broad review of today’s adoption law and its practice. The main objective must be to strengthen the ability of children to grow safely and well. Form of life and sexual identity shall not in itself prevent seeking and being considered as adoptive parents. ‘... This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-lower.ana.ud1588e415	Paragraphs 16(b) and 16(f) have two different proposals, no. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-lower.ana.ud1588e445	The other letters under Section 16 are taken up for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-lower.ana.ud1588e497	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-lower.ana.ud1588e504	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-lower.ana.ud1588e552	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-lower.ana.ud1588e559	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
