ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16-lower.ana.ud1072e40	The President will make suggestions that a seat president of Odelstinget's meeting is elected today – and sees it as agreed. The President asked for suggestions from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16-lower.ana.ud1072e45	I suggest Jørgen Holte.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16-lower.ana.ud1072e50	Mr. Jørgen Holte has been proposed as President-in-Office. – Other suggestions are not in advance, and Jørgen Holte is elected by consensus as President of the sitting today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16-lower.ana.ud1072e58	The scheduled time for the morning meeting has run out. The president suggested that the meeting continue until the map is ready for today. No one has disagreed — and it is agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16-lower.ana.ud1072e72	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 25 minutes, the Progress Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Centre Party 5 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes and the Twist Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there is no possibility of replication after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time, from a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It is seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16-lower.ana.ud1072e79	On the adoption of Law No 29 November 1996 73 on the transmission of cross-border postal items, a major modernisation of the postal legislation was carried out. Now, however, there are two factors that make changes to the law necessary. Directive 97/67/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on common rules for the development of the internal market in Community postal services and the improvement of the quality of service requires changes to the rules of the Postal Code on civil liability. It is important to establish that the main objective of the Postal Act is to ensure a cross-border delivery of postal items at reasonable prices and at good quality. The Postal Directive has as its main objective the creation of common framework conditions for all postal operators in the internal market. At the centre of the Directive is the requirement that countries should ensure a universal postal service and that each country be given the right to reserve some postal services to the postal operator or postal operators performing the universal service. These changes will have minor consequences for Norway, as new postal laws and regulations, both of which came into force on 1 July 1997, are essentially in line with the Postal Directive. The system of unit portfolios in Norway can also be continued in line with the provisions of the Directive. However, it appears necessary to provide for a principle of the provision to the general public of postal consignments at cost-proportional prices. With regard to the scope of exclusive rights, Article 7 of the Postal Directive sets the limits. The provision of exclusive postal law is essentially within the limits laid down by the Directive. In the case of a unit tariff, the majority have taken note of the fact that the Post Act § 5 on concession terms states that the concession authorities can impose a universal postal service obligation. The majority believe that the principle of unit portfolio should also be included in the postal law and have therefore proposed it. Article 7 of the Postal Directive sets out, as stated, the limits on the scope of exclusive rights. The Committee agrees with the Ministry that changes are made to the Postal Act's provisions on exclusive rights so that the dissemination of books, catalogues, newspapers and periodicals is no longer covered by the exclusive right. The majority have noted that proposals are made for the possibility of attaching letters to these consignments, without therefore being subject to the exclusive right. However, the same majority have registered that there has been great fear that the proposed change to the exclusive right provision could be understood as eroding the exclusive field of the Post, given that distributors other than the Post could take over parts of the postal market by offering closed, priority mail in consignments of continuous distribution. The majority, in agreement with the Ministry, have therefore proposed that this point of the law be deleted. In addition to what I have mentioned in particular, an overall committee ends up with the changes proposed in the law.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16-lower.ana.ud1072e112	The main objective of the Postal Act is to ensure a cross-border delivery of postal items. The Postal Act applies to all postal services for remuneration, not only to the postal company of the State, but also to others. The new changes are liberalisation of the law and are linked to the creation of a common regulatory framework for postal services in the Community. It provides for a gradual liberalisation of the postal market, in particular for cross-border mail and addressed mail, as well as an assessment of the applicable prices and weight limits. The Postal Act also states that the exclusive right should not include books, catalogues, newspapers and magazines, even if they are sent in closed and addressed form. Here the representatives of the Progress Party agree that there should be additional permission to attach letters to these broadcasts. We believe that a company that sends out a product, whether it is a CD-ROM, a book or whatever, will be allowed to attach what they themselves want to send to their customers, without having to send it separately. We believe this is a bit too square and too expensive for the companies. I see, of course, that the Post may have increased competition and that there may be fewer postal items, but simplification and saving costs for the companies counts more for the Advance Party than protecting a monopoly. We would also like to point out that we are very pleased that the new rules prohibit cross-subsidisation of competitive services. The new rules shall establish clear accounting policies for the exclusive activity. Of course, the Progress Party supports the proposals on liberalisation. Although, in our view, they may not go far enough, we must say that any change in the form of liberalisation is good for us. Otherwise, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right, I would like to promote the proposal contained in the vote on page 5.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16-lower.ana.ud1072e125	The representative of Thore Aksel Nistad has taken up the proposal to which he referred. Mr Kofoed-Larsen gave up the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16-lower.ana.ud1072e132	The case spokesperson had a thorough review of the changes that were now being made in the postal laws, and I can join in what she said in her post. However, I would like to comment briefly on a few points in the setting. The postal service is a very important part of the infrastructure in a country. The law of the Post must therefore be such that the whole country secures this service at reasonable prices and good quality. With a geography like that in our country, with long distances, it's important to reduce the distance costs and the distance problems in that context. Good postal services at reasonable prices are a piece to achieve this. In order for the postal service to be satisfactory, it is important that the collection, sorting, transport and delivery of postal items be carried out from Monday through Saturday, i.e. six days a week. I am pleased that the postal law at this point goes beyond the minimum postal directive, which is five days a week. A joint committee has said that one argues that the principle of unitary tariffs in the area of one’srights is being passed on. For the Centre Party, this is a very important principle. This ensures that the services that come under the single right area will be equal prices throughout the country. I am therefore pleased that a number in the Committee have found that this principle is so important that it should be incorporated into the law. What comes under the single right area will be changed as a result of adapting to the directive. Dissemination of books, catalogues, newspapers and periodicals is no longer covered by a single right. Open shipments of these articles are also not covered by one-off rights today, but the exception is now extended to books, catalogues, newspapers and journals, whether open or closed. It has recently developed the practice of sending books, etc. have been attached to the invoice, notification etc. This practice, I believe, should be able to continue without the transmission being subject to the right of one. However, it must be stressed that the letter or invoice must have the same sender as the book, magazine or magazine. The centre party is part of the plurality that thinks that the incorporated practice should be able to continue without this being incorporated into the law. In the sense of the ministry, the majority suggest that the new third sentence of the first paragraph of Section 6 be deleted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16-lower.ana.ud1072e141	Today’s debate is not of great and groundbreaking nature in postal services, but there are still some elements in the amendment of the postal law where borders can be moved. Therefore, SV wants to make its positions visible in this regard. It's good that the committee majority has stressed that the unit portfolio is stuck. At a time when District Norway is experiencing a gradual deterioration of the framework conditions, the unit portfolio is one of the few equality principles and balancing mechanisms that remain. We experience daily that the Posten's exclusive rights area is being undermined. This is partly through decisions, partly through the movement of borders — more or less in the frontier country by the law. We have registered that exemptions are granted, including: within government administration. The disbursements are legal, but they should not have been granted. We experience that bidding companies eat up in the area of exclusive rights, and also on the edge of what the law lays down. SV is pleased that the number of committees has strengthened the legal text relating to the access to attachments in the dispatch of books, catalogues, newspapers and magazines, and that, in the form of a note, it is clarified that such attachments must have the same consignor. We do not ignore the fact that border crossings can be attempted, and therefore it is important that the department is awake in relation to the practice being conducted. A defence for the area of exclusive rights, which is already very limited, is a defence that the whole country should have access to services of high and equal quality. The alternative is that competitively interesting areas receive reasonable and good services, while the rest of the country is dependent on them. Of course, SV will work actively to avoid such developments.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16-lower.ana.ud1072e154	The approach taken here in Odelstinget today, and the legislative amendments that form the basis for the vote, involves amending some of the provisions of the Postal Act. Two factors mean that there is now a need for legislative changes. One aspect relates to new EU legislation on postal services. The other aspect is the need for changes to the Postal Code’s rules on liability. The Post Act was adopted on 29 November 1996 and remains a relatively new law. It is therefore natural that a comprehensive review of the provisions of the Postal Act is not currently being carried out. As regards the adopted EU Postal Services Directive, I would like to stress that Norwegian law is essentially in conformity with the provisions of the Directive. However, it is necessary to make some minor changes to the provisions of the Postal Act. I have noticed that there is much agreement on the main points of the legislative amendment, and I will limit myself to commenting on some points. The proposal for a legal obligation to have a cross-border service provision for postal items up to 2 kg implies a quality improvement of the available postal service provision. The item has so far been offered up to 1 kg for domestic mail. However, I am aware that with effect from 1 January 1999, the Post has already expanded its nationwide offer to cover postal items up to 2 kg. The proposed requirement of 2 kg is therefore already met by the Post today. With regard to the proposal to reduce the minimum requirement for the cross-border provision of light goods from 25 kg to 20 kg, I note that the majority agrees with this change. I stress that in the postal law, this is a minimum limit, i.e. that the post as a service provider is obliged to have a nationwide offer for postal items up to 20 kg. However, it is up to the Post whether the company wishes to offer cross-border transmission of postal items above 20 kg on a commercial basis. The post office has so far chosen to keep its national offer up to 25 kg, and the company has, as far as I am aware, not plans to reduce this offer. The legislative proposal proposes that the exclusive rights should be amended in such a way that the transmission of books, catalogues, newspapers and periodicals is not covered by the exclusive right. Furthermore, proposals have been made for the possibility of attaching letters to the consignment of books, catalogues, newspapers and journals without being subject to the exclusive right. In view of the concern expressed by some teams that the proposed amendment to the exclusive right provision could be understood as eroding the exclusive field of the Post, the majority of the Committee, as many have been involved before today, has concluded that it is most appropriate to delete the proposed sentence on access to correspondence. It is essential that the exclusive right provision does not cast doubt on the scope of the exclusive right, and in this respect I would like to point out that there has been a dialogue with the Committee on the content and understanding of the proposed legislative provision on annexes in consignments not covered by the exclusive right of the Post. In addition, I would like to stress that these legislative proposals have been incorporated into the Postal Act to make current practices visible in relation to shipments of books, catalogues, etc. which has attachments, e.g. customer information or invoice to the consignee. On this basis, I am pleased that, through the proposal to delete the proposed legal provision at the same time, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights does not have to prevent the current practice of appendices to postal items from continuing, and therefore there will still be a practical system in this area. The legislative proposal proposes to legislate the principle of cost-orientated prices for services included in the national dissemination offer. This is necessary in order to meet the requirements of the EU Postal Services Directive. At the same time, however, the legislative proposal emphasises that a cost-orientated price requirement does not alter the geographical unit portfolio requirement for services falling within the exclusive rights field. The principle of unit portfolio is based on several submissions for the Stortinget. In St.meld. No 41 for 1995-96, on postal activities in Norway, it was established that there should be a geographical unit portfolio for services falling within the exclusive rights area. However, it was also stated that geographical unit portfolios should not prevent the Post from offering discounts and differentiated prices on a commercial basis where this is necessary for competitive reasons and could contribute positively to the overall performance of the Post. This is also stated in St.meld. No 16 for 1998-99, About the activity of Posten Norge BA, which is now being treated in Stortinget. I have noticed that the committee majority is in favour of the principle of unit portfolios being explicitly laid down in the Postal Act. Like the Committee, I would like to stress that, by legislating requirements for geographical unit portfolios for services falling within the area of exclusivity, it still has to be based on the premise that the Stortinget has previously agreed on in relation to the principle of unit portfolios. This would mean that legal requirements for geographical unit portfolios should not prevent the Post from continuing to offer discounts and differentiated prices on a commercial basis where this is necessary for competitive reasons and could contribute positively to the overall performance of the Post.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16-lower.ana.ud1072e173	Several of the postal policy issues that the representative, Mr Ballo, raised in his statement, will be brought back to us in the so-called postal message. Its action plan is now under way in the Committee and will be presented to the Stortinget during April. Luckily, SV is part of the committee's majority.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16-lower.ana.ud1072e180	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 382]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16-lower.ana.ud1072e194	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 383]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16-lower.ana.ud1072e208	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 384]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16-lower.ana.ud1072e216	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1-3.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16-lower.ana.ud1072e222	During the debate, on behalf of the Progress Party, the representative, Thore Aksel Nistad, presented the proposal included in the section on page 5.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16-lower.ana.ud1072e358	The progress party has warned that they are going against the second term, the second sentence. So this is going to be over this point right over here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16-lower.ana.ud1072e371	So it's going to be over the other sections and the dots in Section 5.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16-lower.ana.ud1072e379	Before voting on Section 6, the President will vote on the proposal from the Progress Party and the Right to Section 6, first paragraph, third sentence. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The third sentence of the first paragraph of Section 6 shall be replaced by the following:This shall apply even if, in addition, the postal consignment contains letters which would be the sole subject of the exclusive right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16-lower.ana.ud1072e480	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16-lower.ana.ud1072e487	The Act will be sent to the Creation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16-lower.ana.ud1072e579	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16-lower.ana.ud1072e586	The Act will be sent to the Creation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16-lower.ana.ud1072e622	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-16-lower.ana.ud1072e629	The Act will be sent to the Creation.
