ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e27	The representatives of Jan Tore Sanner, Hans J. Røsjorde, Laila Kaland, Torstein Rudihagen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt, who has been licensed, have again taken the seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Dag Terje Andersen from Wednesday 10 February until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative Karin Lian is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e62	Karin Lian is present and wants to take a seat. From the Office of the Prime Minister, dated 3 February 1999 there is the following letter: ‘To Stortinget. Change of State Secretary The State Council of H.M.K. held at Oslo Castle on 29 January 1999 at 1100 is determined: 1st@item: inlistbox State Secretary Håkon Giil shall be granted, on application, by way of derogation from the office of State Secretary of the Ministry of Oil and Energy with effect from 1 February 1999. 2nd@item: inlistbox State Secretary Rita Hansen Roaldsen shall be granted, on application by the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health with effect from 1 February 1999.3. [[social matters]] Political adviser Erlend Grimstad is appointed State Secretary to the Ministry of Oil and Energy with accession on 1 February 1999. 4th@item: inlistbox Political adviser Steinulf Tongesvik is appointed State Secretary of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health with accession on 1 February 1999. [[social matters]] ‘... The President proposed that the referenced letter be annexed to the minutes – and considered adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e92	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e97	I propose Asmund Kristoffersen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e102	Asmund Kristoffersen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt are proposed as chairmen. – Other proposals are not available, and Asmund Kristoffersen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt are unanimously elected as chairpersons of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e121	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Anne Enger Lahnstein State Council Election Svarstad Haugland State Council Kåre Gjøne State Council Dagfinn Højbrätten The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. Some representatives have signed up in advance with a request to ask questions. Representatives who, in addition to them, are interested in asking questions are asked to rise. - Thank you. We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative John I. Alvheim.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e143	I have a question for the Minister of Health. Imports of medical specialists and general practitioners have more than tripled in the last two years. However, this is not without problems. Significant language problems in general medical services are reported in many municipalities. In particular, this is the case where the general medical service consists largely of foreign doctors recruited from outside Scandinavia. What can the Minister of Health do in relation to municipalities to improve the Norwegian knowledge of foreign doctors before starting their practice?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e152	We have both a shortage of doctors in Norway and a distorted distribution of the medical devices we have. The government is attacking this along several dimensions, primarily by increasing educational capacity, then by ensuring that we have better control over the distribution of new medical facilities. But we still have to count on a need to recruit doctors from abroad. What is important then is that recruitment takes place so that we give applicants the opportunity to prepare, both in Norwegian and in Norwegian. Neither Norwegian nor – perhaps to a much lesser extent – Norwegian Social Security, which I have a certain knowledge of, can be learned in 14 days. The approach we are now working with the labour market authorities is therefore to provide proper training before these foreign doctors enter the Norwegian health system. We are also concerned about working with county doctors in the most recent counties on how to follow up doctors even when they are in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e159	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Most of the imported foreign specialists go to Norwegian hospitals, which appear to be inexorably in need of specialists, due to the increasing level of border specialisation. When approving the regional health plans, will the Minister of Health assess whether there might be an over-covery of specialists in Norwegian hospitals, especially in South Norway, who are again at the expense of specialist access in North Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e166	The answer to Alvheim's question is that we have actually been given the opportunity to better control with this now, from 1 January, when the new law on the distribution of doctors has entered into force, and the new national council for the specialist training of doctors has entered into force. This Council is precisely to contribute to a stronger national governance of the kind of specialities we need, and it should also contribute to a better distribution of the specialists needed by hospitals. I therefore believe that we have now come up with tools, and then it's up to the authorities to use this tool wisely.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e171	There will be follow-up questions – Olav Gunnar Ballo.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e174	In extending John Alvheim's question, I would like to ask the Minister of Health if he is a foreign doctor, could say something about the discrimination we see in doctors coming from the EEA territory and doctors coming from outside the EEA territory. What you can see is that doctors from an EEA country are given immediate approval and that small demands are made, for example. to language skills. There may therefore be some significant problems associated with these doctors. On the other hand, doctors from outside the EEA territory, who may be equally qualified or better qualified, have to comply with significant requirements in order to obtain their approval. This constraint can often be so high that they cannot meet the requirements, including: there may be problems relating to a residence permit. Will the Minister of Health take the initiative to compensate for the differences in the possibilities for EEA doctors and doctors from non-EEA countries to work in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e181	I have already taken an initiative to take a closer look at this problem. We are going to follow the EEA Agreement, but we also have the opportunity to pre-approve training places outside the EEA territory. I have taken an initiative to assess whether we should do so to a greater extent, precisely to address the problem pointed out by the representative of Ballo here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e187	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e190	The question goes to the Minister of Health. The political majority in Oslo are turning the hospitals Ullevål and Aker into limited liability companies. A transition to a limited company for Norway's largest and third largest hospitals will affect the whole of Health-Norway by sending strong signals about such organisation also in other hospitals. The form of the public limited liability company is designed to operate in a competitive market, and it seems that our health should be on some form of stock exchange. What is now in the process of happening is in stark contradiction with what Stortinget decided for approx. six months ago in the context of the health region classification, where cooperation and division of tasks within and between the counties were central. What does the Minister of Health intend to do after what now appears to be happening?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e201	It is my view that hospitals should be given a freer position to deal with the new and more demanding instruments on which health policy is now based, among others. input-driven funding and then a free hospital choice. But it doesn't matter what kind of organization, what kind of association, the hospitals have to their owner. Because this is a major and important health policy issue, the Government has reduced a sample – the Sørensen Committee – to report on alternative forms of hospital association by 15 March. Among the options that will be considered is the form of the limited liability company, but also a form of hospital enterprises that are similar to the state-owned enterprise model adopted in the case of state-owned enterprises. My goal is to have a wide-ranging health policy debate based on the Sørensen Committee's position, and I understand that the position that exists at Oslo City Council has taken into account that the alternatives presented by the Sørensen Committee will in fact be considered before taking a final position in Oslo. That will be my specific advice to the Municipality of Oslo. I would also like to point out that any change in the form of an attachment could mean such a major change in the organisation of the hospital that it could trigger a requirement for a new approval under the hospital law. In that case, it will be assessed if such a final decision is taken.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e208	I think it is alarming that the Minister of Health's own party, the Christian People's Party, in Oslo is with the Right and the Advance Party in eagerness to commercialise the health service. It violates overall national policy objectives. It is also striking that the work on turning hospitals into a limited company takes place in advance of the selection that the Minister of Health now said he himself has put down, and as I believe is a very important work. It is only one month for this sample to come up with its position, and I think it is a provocation against both the Minister of Health and other members of the Government that the Municipality of Oslo is going so far ahead of this selection's position. From such a market-driven and low-politically managed hospital limited liability company, there is a very short way for Norwegian or foreign private investors to be involved, including insurance companies with such an interest. What comment does the Minister of Health have on such developments?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e213	The criticism now raised by the representative Kristoffersen, I feel first and foremost directed to the City Council in Oslo, and I do not want to answer that. I will answer for how I have handled this matter. It is to ensure that a wide-ranging health policy debate is organised, in which different forms of association options are assessed. As far as I know the setting to which the representative Kristoffersen refers, the Municipality of Oslo takes into account the fact that the outcome of the Sørensen Committee's position will be assessed before taking a final position on the form of connection in the Municipality of Oslo. In that case, I do not think that is the basis for the characteristics used by the representative Kristoffersen. For my part, I'm clearly skeptical about the AS model, because I think hospitals are social institutions that require a greater degree of social governance.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e220	There will be follow-up questions – Britt Hildeng.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e223	You lie, said Valgerd Svarstad Haugland to Thorbjørn Jagland in the party leader debate when he warned the Christian People's Party against joining the Right and Advance Party in their privatisation promotion. Today, the Christian People's Party in Oslo has given its support to AS-certification of the hospitals in Oslo, to turn the municipal pension fund into a limited liability company, and it seems that they are about to agree to offer the entire municipality's elderly care. Does the Council of State see any concern about these strong privatisation trends in health and social care in Oslo, and does he want to do something concrete about it?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e230	The question of the form of connection between one public hospital owner and the hospital is initially not a question of privatisation, but it may be a question of the degree of political governance. That's why I think there's an important health policy question what kind of connection there's going to be between the hospitals and their owners. I think that the question is too big to be decided only in one local government in the country, although it is our largest municipality and our largest hospital owner. That is why I have taken the initiative of the Sørensen Committee. I expect all parties, including the Municipality of Oslo, who are invited to join the Sørensen Committee, to relate to the results of the sample and to the treatment of them before taking a final position on the connection model.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e237	It will be a follow-up question to – Annelise Höegh.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e240	I am pleased that the Minister of Health is not fooled by the Workers' Party to draw conclusions before the selection work is put on the table. There's been some doubt about this before, so I'm glad. I am also pleased to note that the fear of the Workers' Party is now facing hospital reforms, not shared by the Minister of Health. It is wise Right and not least the City Council in Oslo that has driven many of these reforms in the future. I want to ask the Minister of Health if he doesn't think it makes sense with a trial period when we're trying out new models, and that even after the Sørensen Committee's proposals, you don't have to rule out some forms, but that we're given the opportunity to try out both the AS form and other forms, because it's a good thing that it's the overarching hospital model that we have in our country today, where political governance has taken over, which has got us all the health cows, and that's what makes patients not receiving treatment as quickly as they could have.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e249	I thank the representative, Høegh, for commending me for not taking a stand in advance for questions that I have asked a selection to investigate. But the next moment, the representative Hoegh asked me to do it. I will continue to refrain from taking a position on issues to be addressed by the sample, namely whether there should be one legal form of association between the hospital and the owner, or whether there should be several possible forms of association. There are questions that I think it is natural to consider in the wake of such an investigation. The AS form is already being tested. Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospital is a corporation. So also in Norway, you actually have such a model during testing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e255	The last follow-up question is from Olav Gunnar Ballo.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e258	In the context of the discussion on the release of hospitals in Oslo, the question arises whether, in the event of a waiver, treatment sites would be sold, for example. in the case of health insurance, so that those who had taken out health insurance should be guaranteed an offer at a hospital. So far as I registered, the health agency in Oslo stated that such a solution would be absolutely relevant in the case of a waiver. It makes it visible that a waiver will provide hospitalisation on other premises, where the public offer may need to be reduced as a consequence of a greater market governance. Does the Minister of Health see the concern of an exemption model, precisely because one does not receive public governance on the basis of equivalency considerations, but that the economic incentive can then govern the operation of the hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e265	I think it's important to have two thoughts in my head at the same time. It is necessary to provide hospitals with a freer position. They are among the most complex and largest businesses we have to run in the country. Hospital management needs a more robust and freer platform to manage these complex businesses. That's why we need a freer position. So the question is, what kind of exemption? That's what the Sørensen committee is investigating, and they're going to report about a month. I would like to say that we are following two lines of health policy. One is to provide a stronger level of incentives and demand management through input-driven funding, through a freer choice of hospitals and through a more freer position of hospitals. But the second track is also important. It is governance through regional health plans and through ownership management. I will be in charge of a health policy that takes out efficiency gains by opening up demand mechanisms, but at the same time has overall political governance.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e272	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e275	I want to ask a question to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. From 1 August 1999, the option of cash support will be extended by introducing a new step. This is in line with the agreement entered into by the cash support lots last year. The grant rates for kindergartens are roughly equivalent to the cash support rates. The Ministry has incorporated this into a circular on state grants for the operation of kindergartens in 1999. I would like to ask the Council of State why the Government of the new circular violates its stated objective in the budget of a general increase in grant rates and a better economy for both municipal and private kindergartens. Kindergartens receive high support for children under three years of age, NOK 36 000, and low support for children over three years of age, DKK 19 000, but in a circular form it is stated that only children born after 1 January 1997 will receive high support after 1 August this year. This means that children born in 1996 but not three years old on 1 August will receive low support. Why does the ministry change the rules without notice? This means reducing support for children up to NOK 6000 from 1 August to 31 December. Why has the Council of State not discussed this with the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e284	I have to answer that I have to go back and investigate more thoroughly. I thought it was the same bet that one had the previous year, which was passed on. Therefore, I cannot answer any more than that I have to investigate and possibly come back to Stortinget with more information if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e289	I thank you for that, but it's not the rate that's changed, it's the point of entry for calculating the age of the children. This means that kindergartens will receive NOK 19 000 in support of children aged 2 and 7 months on 1 August, while children up to 3 years would receive NOK 36 000. So there's $14,000 in the difference between these children, as a result of the rule change that is now written on pages 2 and 3. It is possible that the Council of State is not aware of this, but in that case she should check it out, because this is quite serious. This means, for example: that private kindergartens may have to charge their parents NOK 1000 more per month of parental payment in the period from August to December. It is possible that this has been done in the department without the knowledge of the Council of State, but in that case it will surprise me greatly. And I ask whether this is not also in conflict with the agreement of the government parties, the Right and the Advance Party have concluded to improve the conditions for the private kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e296	When it comes to improving the conditions for the private nursery, the government comes back to Stortingen with a big message about this, and it's going to be presented to the Storinge to spring. When it comes to this particular point that the representative asks, I can in fact answer nothing but that as I have understood it – I have to look into it more thoroughly, because I feel on a little thin ice – has carried on the practice that has been before in relation to support when it comes to age differentiation between two and three years. This point has been taken up by, for example. organizations, as well as the previous government and this government, have probably been criticized for not following the three-year limit. But as I said, I have to go back to the department and get more information and, if necessary, return to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e303	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e306	I will ask the following questions to the State Council and party leader Lahnstein: Minister of Church Lilletun has lamented Bishop Köhn's decision to allow the chapel Siri Sunde to continue in the job she has done in a conscientious manner. Is Lilletun's complaint also the view of the Government and thus Lahnstein?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e313	In this case, I will refer to Lilletun's statement and also to the fact that this is a question that the Church's internal organs will follow up, as I understand it. Otherwise, this is a matter for which it is well known that there are some different assessments in relation to the handling. But State Council Lilletun is speaking on behalf of the Government of the question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e321	I think what the answer to the Council of State Lahnstein now gives, is sad, for the one who according to the Church Act is set to do the job on behalf of the Church, is Bishop Köhn, and the minister of the Church on behalf of the Government has lamented her decision. He hasn't let the internal organs themselves sort out. Bishop Köhn was the one to sort it out, she has done so, and he has regretted it. I think it is sad, because the further development of the people's church must just happen at the efforts of both the Labour Party and the Centre Party. At the same time, however, the Government is now cementing an opinion of a very vulnerable group, and my question to Lahnstein is: How should the Government, the Value Commission in spite of that, work to increase tolerance and equivalency especially?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e326	I'm a little surprised by this reaction, as far as I remember, Councillor Lilletun's complaint was linked to what was perceived as a breach of promise. Moreover, Lilletun pointed to the process that is in the Church's own organs. That's what's important for me to clarify. Otherwise, I agree that when it comes to the development of the people's church, it's important to have a roof height. It is important that we have the appointment of leadership in the Church that respects the liberality that one wants for a church of the people associated with the state. That's what's our goal, and I want to go on with it. In this specific case, it is clear that the Council of State Lilletun is speaking on behalf of the Government. He's saddened one element. He has further pointed to the process within the Church, and I think it is absolutely right that he here refers to the inner self-government that the Church has in matters of faith.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e333	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e336	I have a question for the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. It is now revealed that only in Oslo there are 1 000-1 300 children with war experience who are asylum seekers and refugees. Either they've been soldiers sailors, or the parents have war experience. And they also exist in other parts of the country. I'm pretty sure we agree that the trauma they have is so great that we can hardly imagine the nightmare they're living with. But what we know is that the kids have trouble coping with their own everyday life and are having trouble working in society. Several of them also end up in gangs. Today these children do not get proper and good enough help. I am quite sure that we agree that they must be caught up early, as soon as they come to the country. What will the Minister for Children and Family Affairs do to help the children, and to help parents to be parents and make their parents?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e345	There are serious numbers we are served in relation to children and young people who have problems in this field, and I agree with the representative that it has not been done enough for these children. Now we have adopted a psychiatry reform to help children and young people, and I believe that the people we are talking about here, too, will be able to get help through the psychiatry reform that has been adopted and is about to be seen in the lives of the different municipalities. I would also like to refer to other measures that the Government has seen going on. special help measures where a person wishes to provide family support to children. It's a professorship at the University of Oslo, a five-year project, that's been started. One has gained a lot of experience with very good results from the U.S., where one has helped the very young people who come, among other things. from forward-looking cultures, and where one has gone in and helped both children and parents in cooperation and viewed it as a better tool than sending part of them, they call the worst. I have great faith that this will help this group of young people in this country as well. And then I also want to mention that in the last week we set up a NOU selection to take care of child protection and the foster home problem in Norway. I am very confident that there will also be proposals and measures to help this particular group. There are also many other projects where young people will try to help young people. I also believe that child protection and psychiatry and a part of these offerings that we want to give to young people, especially in the big cities, will help this group to work well in society. That's what we want, and that's what we have a goal of.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e354	I thank you for your answer. We agree that there must be a lot of help here, both for the parents and for the children. The state councils mentioned the psychiatry reform. It is quite alarming to hear that the children who are seeking psychological help today have to pay for it. This is not at all good enough. We are of the opinion that child and youth psychiatry must be upgraded to receive these children far better than it is today. There are now 8 000 asylum seekers around the country. Many of them are children, and many of them are families with children. They have to get help right here and now, right away. In principle, child protection is the one to capture them immediately, but neither is it. What does the Minister for Family Affairs want to do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e361	The Minister for Family Affairs will stress the responsibilities of child and youth psychiatry. Now I want to remind you that this reform has just been implemented, and I expect it to produce a good result for this group as well. Power has been taken from Stortinget's side on the basis of proposals from the Government, and I expect that will be followed up in the municipalities. As the representative says, there are many who are in asylum around the municipalities. Both child protection and child and youth psychiatry will help them get help. This I'm assuming will happen. It is clear that they should be helped yesterday, as the representative almost claims, and looking at the different measures and trying to strengthen them, is something we support. That's exactly why we're here. has reduced a selection to look at child protection, and has had a stake in child and youth psychiatry and psychiatry in general, as the Stortinget has also supported. So I hope these kids get help.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e368	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e371	I would like to ask the Minister for Children and Family Affairs a question. In the evening post of 7 February, the Council of State promises that contributors will receive better advice. That's what the Progress Party is pleased about. One of the reasons why the Council of State now wants to look at the contribution scheme is that, as she says in the Evening Post, ‘the current contribution system does not take into account the fact that the contributor also spends time with the children’. The arguments put forward here are entirely in line with those advanced by the Progress Party and by Mr Hedstrom, the representative of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. But my question is more about whether this investigation or the government proposal will be promoted in the spring of 1999 or as suggested in an article earlier from the Council of State, in the autumn of 1999. Does the Council of State wish to delay progress, if appropriate, by sending this new proposal to a new hearing?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e380	Now it is not just the Hedstrom and the Progress Party who have been involved in this issue. There are quite a number of people in Stortinget and in my department who have been dealing with this issue for a long time. As one certainly knows, it was the Council of State Grete Berget who sent out a proposal on the listener, who got both rose and rice. So things have gone down, and I caught hold of them when I became the Council of State. When it comes to progress, I can promise the representative that a hearing note will be sent out during the spring, but things will probably not be going on in the Storting until the fall, as the work programme looks to us now. It is also obvious to me that this matter has to be heard again because we have seen what kind of hearing response came up on the previous proposal that was sent out. They want us to adapt to the new proposal that we are sending out together with the priorities that this government wants to do on this matter. It is then obvious that the matter has to be heard again before we can possibly prepare a proposal that is sent to Stortinget. This means that it probably doesn't even get to the fall. It's not about delaying the process; it's about taking the time we need to get a proposal that as many as possible can be a few about.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e387	I thank you for your answer. I am fully aware that today's family minister is the fourth state council member in the line now who has talked about, evaluated and presented new rules for the grant scheme. That's exactly why the Progress Party has engaged so strongly in the matter, because now there are no more children to lose in this context. Knowing that today there are nearly 60,000 children dealing only with one biological parent, it is clear that this must be speeded up and given proper priority. In a study by the Institute of Social Economy at the University of Bergen, all the arguments that the Progress Party has now used for nearly 10 years are confirmed, and I believe that when the previous Minister of Family Grete Berget in an article, together with the Council of State here at the same time, confirmed that they already knew the problem, it was not necessary to extend the process. But another thing about this...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e397	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e400	I don't think I got any new questions. The matter comes to Stortinget, and I expect it will be handled quickly when it gets here, so that we can see the rules in life.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e407	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e410	I want to ask the Minister of Culture a question. In recent years, we have tried to put a stronger focus on the importance of cultural services, among other things. to prevent deportation from the districts. One of the few offers that are really well developed in the districts is the cinema offer. It has happened over the last decades through a solidarity system, built up by municipal cinematographers and film lease. Now we see that large municipalities privatise their cinemas and that there is a conflict about the film rental agreement. What does the Minister of Culture intend to do so that we can maintain the cinema offer in small places in the district municipalities, so that they can also keep that offer?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e417	I fully agree with Alstad that the cinema offer is very important and well developed in Norway. It's actually a very unique model, where we've built up an offer and also have an industry agreement that means getting a good distribution of films in Norway, and how far away from 90 pst. by the cinemas, I think, are in public possession. Now we see that it's prominent from different sides to get into this market. It is the municipalities that have the concession authority for cinema operations, and therefore I would like to assess whether it is right to go out to the municipalities and point to the importance of the cinema offer, as we do, and perhaps ask the municipalities to think carefully about it before going into a privatisation, which can be in the cold water now. Otherwise, it is also very important to maintain this solidarity agreement that Alstad points to, and it may be seen in the context. Film policy, or cinema policy, will be an important policy area for me in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e424	I thank you for your answer. Unlike Sweden and Denmark and most of our other neighbouring countries, we do not have the vertical structure of privatised cinema and film production across the whole line. We have chosen to build it up on the political objective of decentralisation. I think, as the Council of State had in mind, that it is important that we are able to maintain this in order for the small municipalities at least to have the minimum of cultural offerings that we have built up in recent years. I am glad that the Council of State warns that she is considering taking the initiative, and she will receive full support if she chooses to do so. I think that is a significant point, which must not only be made a municipal matter, but a matter for which we also have a national responsibility. We also have a responsibility that the Norwegian film being produced has a market to show for, because it's not something we make for export markets or for our own pleasure, it's because we want to give our people an offer. And then we have to have the device and the structure in place to give them this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e431	I fully agree with Alstad in describing our offer and the significance of it. Clearly, commercialization or privatisation could lead to a narrower range of films around the country. I am also pleased that in this area I can perhaps expect that we can get an interaction with the Workers' Party to create an offensive that means that the important cultural offer that cinema is throughout the country can be maintained and further developed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e438	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e441	I have a question for the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. There's a question in the tone of the so-called Brustad-bua. I understand that the carrying idea, or the very basis of value, in this law is that Sunday is not destroyed if we shop in stores that are less than 100 m2. I have said it before, and I say it again: I cannot understand that it will be more Sunday of shopping in small stores than in large shops. The most recent episode in this Sunday paddy is now that the Council of State will also remove the derogation on traffic nook points, where shops may have been open regardless of size. As a result, the tax-free shops and the other shops at airports may also have to be shut down or pushed into this Brustad-bua concept. Is it really the intention of the Council to close the tax-free sale on Sundays, thus contributing to an increase in home burning or smuggling? Now I'm excited about the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e448	I got a bit of a shocking experience when I boarded the plane in New York last Friday. I was pictured on the front page of the VG, and it said that if I got what I wanted, the shops at the airports would be shut down on Sunday. VG has not been in contact with me. I have the impression that the way they work is that a good case should not be investigated so very thoroughly. It has never been my intention to close the cork tax-free shops or other shops at the Gardermoen. But it's important for me to stress that I want to have a law that is to be respected, as a plurality on the Stortinget wants, and that preserves Sunday as a different day, while at the same time one can take care of them in the merchandise trade. You're doing great. When it comes to clearing up these ambiguities that some within the commercial industry claim are in the law that has been passed, the government has not yet dealt with it, but we will come back to that. I just want to make it clear that it has never been my intention to close taxi-free shops or other shops at airports. In the past, there were many shops that had opened illegally, and it desired to regulate. Many of these can now, through a long-standing practice, lead to the opening time they had before, which they made up for. Now I am not going to comment on what was illegal or legal of what happened before 1 January 1999. But what I can say is that we want to make the changes that may have to be, in the most bold way, in order to promise their intention to be followed up even by those who don't seem to be doing it today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e459	I thank you for this hopefully clarifying answer. But I hope that the Council of State sees that this is such a hopeless law that the best way to make it respectable is actually to lift the whole law and trust that people themselves are able to figure out what it makes sense to do on Sunday – that it might be possible to combine both action and to go to church, if you're busy with it, go on a trip or whatever it might be. But has the Council of State considered that it is just as she now said, that the law we have today, which the Workers' Party and the Government want to continue with, has actually rewarded those who have violated the law on the ban on Sunday-open grocery stores every year? I say thank you and the price for 7-Eleven, because they have through their illegal business pushed the Government and the Workers' Party to realize that at least some shops will be allowed to stay open on Sundays. But they've done that by ignoring the ban. What the government is doing now is rewarding those who have broken the law, and punishing those who have kept the law extraordinarily.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e467	It's quite clear: what the representative here points to is a cross of thought, and I'm not going to hide it. At the same time, neither I nor the Government – nor the Labour Party – want to sharpen what has been a custom. We actually want to have a law that will clean up what has been illegal. People can think for themselves – yes, but the problem is that if the representative Hoegh's freedom to do whatever she wants on Sunday is to be fully respected, someone has to work in these stores. In fact, I would like to take account of those who may wish to make representations to Høegh or others in the shops if they are to be open. In order for those who work in the retail trade to be able to enjoy freedom on a Sunday, one must actually have a legal regulation. I don't want a Sunday where both sports shops, furniture shops and grocery stores should be open. In fact, we put a great deal of pressure on those who work within the trade in goods. It's also important for me to go under, while we want to keep Sunday as a different day.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e474	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e477	My question goes to the Minister of Agriculture. In many parts of Utkant-Noreg, forestry is very important. The possibilities of forestry should have been even better exploited. But what you're actually experiencing from New Year's Eve is that the price of wood pulp mills and sawdust for forestry and wood mills out in District Norway is so greatly reduced that much of the forest is not profitable to drift out. It comes from the fact that wood processing companies have introduced a so-called transport deduction, which leads to significantly reduced prices for forestry in rural areas. I'm aware that market forces control this. Nevertheless, my question is: does the Minister of Agriculture think this is in line with a good rural policy and a good forestry policy? If not, does the Minister of Agriculture see measures and instruments to counteract this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e484	I will first of all refer to the forest report that the Government has promoted, which is now being treated in the Stortinget, where one comes into a general discussion of the framework conditions for Norwegian forestry in the future, and where the Stortinget is given the opportunity to go into part of the questions Rudihagen travels. With regard to the pricing of wood, there is nothing that the Ministry or the Council of State have to do with it. The pricing takes place on the basis of normal market assessments and negotiations. Therefore, the Council of State does not find it possible to enter and have opinions as to whether these prices are too low or too high. It is clear that the profitability of Norwegian forestry will be best when prices are highest. It is therefore a task for forest owners to ensure that they have a harvest that makes one use the resources that you have in total. If Norwegian does not work, a few larger imports from other countries, and this does not help to promote the type of crop we need in Norwegian forests as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e493	I thank you for your answer. I am, as I said, aware of the market forces involved in pricing. But today, the Norwegian three-processing industry is largely dominated by a few enterprises. And to illustrate what this has led to, let me just say that. in a forest owner’s association that Mjøsen has been pushing forward such prices by Norwegian Forest Supply even when it concerns zone pricing of pulp mills. This is a breach of the previous principle of equal price when delivered by car. Norwegian Forest was in its time started by forest owners. In the location discussion, there was no interest for the forest owners in which the company was to be located, because the principle was equal to the price of each delivered wood. Does the Minister of Agriculture have anything to say to Norwegian Forest in the light of such a course of action as this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e502	I feel that here, perhaps, the Council of State is moving out into an area that he should not think too much about. In general, in a stronger competition in an international market, this is part of the structural debate and assessment of the structure of business in Norway, which means that we get larger units. We can also find that in other areas, not just in forestry. The question that the representative asked about my assessment of the Norwegian Forest's business pattern, I do not think it is right that I believe anything about this today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e507	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e510	I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture. Norway and Norwegian farmers dump large parts of their meat surplus at spot prices abroad in order to help Kari and Ola pay some of Europe’s highest food prices. In 1997, over 7 000 tonnes of Norwegian food was dumped on the world market. It was mainly pigmeat but also dairy products. Now we are going into WTO negotiations, and we are about to eliminate the possibility for Norwegian farmers to eliminate these problems by dumping food on the world market. We have a law over 60 years old, the law on sales, which regulates these conditions and makes this possible – a 60-year-old law! Under the new and future conditions, will the Council of State intervene in order to liberalise or eliminate the law on sales, so that we can gain free competition at the level of sales also in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e519	This could be a general agricultural policy debate. I want to show that selling goods on the world market is done with export subsidies in more countries than in Norway. It happens in the EU, and it happens in other countries, to adapt to world market prices. In this context, Norway is not particularly active. What may be special in Norway is that the volume of exports is low. In the general Norwegian agricultural policy, export is not in itself an objective. It is an objective to have a production that covers the Norwegian market. But then you get the situation that you don't hit this production at millimeters, and then you have to regulate the market. We also need to assess the law that works today. In fact, it is the Norwegian farmers who today have to pay what this overproduction we have costs, unlike in other countries, where the public authorities also take that cost. I just want to end by saying that for my part I want to focus on finding instruments in agricultural policy where we can adapt production to the demand we have in our own country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e526	This can be done very easily. By releasing the market more freely, the invisible hand of the market will adapt its supply to demand. In addition, prices will decrease, so that we will not experience Kari and Ola electives to Sweden, Denmark and Finland. Last year, there was a total of 11 000 mills in the border trade. 30-40 pst. of what was purchased, food — chicken, pork and dairy products. Yes, pork has now become so cheap in Sweden that people use it to feed on the bikkja. Now something has to be done, and I ask more specifically: what will the Ministry do to make Norwegian food products more competitive?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e533	At least I do not have the goal of my or the Government's policy that we should come down to food prices that will meet the needs that the representative Hedstrøm pointed out – to whom food, if any, should be primarily an offer. With regard to the general price level in Norway, I have responded to what was previously said here in Stortinget and said that it is not a goal in itself to have expensive food, but that we need to find a balance where those who are working on this production have an income similar to that of others in society. In this policy, part of the income is taken through normal market prices and some are taken over by government budget appropriations. In the last farm settlement, the agreed supplement that was taken out through prices in the market was historically low. It had an effect in the consumer price index of 0.1 pst. In this way, the government has focused on getting the prices of groceries down.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e541	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e544	I will be asked a question to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. Violence starts at home, claimed Per Isdal at a violence conference directed by Red Cross yesterday. In the 1999 budget, the Workers’ Party presented a package of violence which included strengthening measures such as child protection, crisis centres, Youth against violence and more money to non-governmental organisations. The conference held yesterday by the Red Cross also highlighted the importance of action in these areas. In many ways, I have heard the Prime Minister and the Council of State talk intensely about doing something, precisely in the area of violence. Three months after dealing with the budget in Stortinget, the situation of violence has been serious, and there is a willingness to provide additional funds for precisely these areas, which will prevent, among other things, violence. at home?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e553	I myself was present and heard the talk to Per Isdal yesterday. It was a very interesting talk. He pointed out, as the representative also says, that domestic power is a major problem. There's something we've got going on in the government, and on Monday we're going to have an idea with those who know this area best – those who care for women and children who are exposed to power, etc. – to bring ideas to what we can do. Private choice is more difficult to deal with than the power that happens in the streets. The choices that happen in the streets get a lot more media talk. Private choice is definitely the largest area, but we can't set up surveillance cameras or have police in the sticks of people, we need other measures. I hope that the debate we are going to have on Monday will lead us to some suggestions that we can put into practice, as well as all the other actions that have actually been taken – actions that this government has seen, and actions that have been carried out by previous governments. This is one of the areas that didn't get any cuts when we released our budget in the fall. Despite the fact that we had to have a budget that was very tight, we screened the measures that went directly to help young people, including young people. through the development programme, pilot projects in two municipalities, and various measures and support schemes that we have in the major cities. I thought it was a good idea to get feedback on some of these measures that we have had, among other things. in Oslo, have our targets and show good results. So I hope that on Monday this idea day can lead to some good action. The government wants to present an action plan to the elected at home during the spring. We hope that we can do something concrete – more than what we already do today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e562	I notice that the Council of State is bypassing the question. My question was, Will more money be allocated to this? The answer I get is: Ideas. I don't think it'll last any longer. I noticed that the Prime Minister of the Oral Question-Treat on 27 January said they wanted to re-prioritize child protection. Is it true that this government, which could afford 2.8 billion kroner of cash support, cannot afford to support the violence with a single penny more than what is in the budget? And in case you want to re-prioritize, as the Prime Minister said, what do you intend to downgrade in that child protection and in the crisis centers we have?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e567	We had the budget debate in the fall, and I'm not going to bring it up again. I thought the representative Fossum knew how things work from the government's side. We present the budget for the autumn, and there we have our priorities. We are going to present a revised national budget in ours, and it is quite clear that today I cannot go out and say what we are going to prioritise in the treatment of the revised national budget for spring. It would be interesting if I stood here today and said that I can promise many more millions to a special area. We know how things work both from the Government's side and here in the Storting. And the Storting gets to deal with our revised budget with the priorities we have, when the time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e572	It'll be a follow-up question from Gunnar Breimo.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e575	There is no lack of good ideas and action either by the Christian People's Party or by the Council of State, but there are questions about money for prevention. The police alone can never solve these problems. It has many times puzzled me how terribly difficult it is to find money for prevention. When the damage has happened, there is always money for repair, for prison and punishment. It was encouraging to experience that the Government proposed in the budget procedure in the autumn and got the Right and Advance Party to cut the appropriations for child and youth work. For example, the development programme for strengthening the growing environment was cut from 4 million. kr toskrørve 100000 kr. My question is: does the Council of State think this is a forward-looking policy in today's situation, and can we expect similar cuts in the future? I hope that the Council of State not only owes it to the Workers' Party's alleged lack of cooperation. The Government proposed the cuts in the original draft budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e580	Now I want to remind the representative that one can have a proper presentation of the facts in the case. For the representative of Mr Breimo, who is on the committee who is also to deal with the supplementary notification of the voluntary notification, it is very well known that there is also a point of view that the 4 million. kr to be allocated to these pilot projects shall be taken from the sum to be covered, if appropriate, by the additional messages. There's a lot of work there in relation to volunteer work, which one wants to lead down to the local level, and there's also a lead in relation to these resources. The representative knows that well. So when the Storting gets to handle that message, I assume that the funds are in place and can be used for what they were thinking of.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e585	Then we go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e588	I would like to ask the Minister for Culture the following questions: The Minister of Culture's proposal to legitimise the ban on political television advertising has prompted some politicians to respond to the proposal itself. One also responds to the speed at which this proposal is made, and believes that the Government should rather wait, among other things. The Commission's investigation of freedom of expression, which is scheduled to be ready until 1 July of this year. I note that the Ministry of Culture has a different view from the Advancement Party and claims that a ban on political advertising on TV does not conflict with freedom of expression, and that therefore one does not have to wait for this investigation. The same applies to advertising for life's vision. How is the Council of State doing this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e595	It is right that the representative, Mr Bredvold, points out that the Central Party and the Advance Party have different views on this matter. What has happened is that a majority in Stortinget has asked for a better legal basis for banning political advertising on TV. We have followed that up by sending out a hearing note. The consultation period has now expired. In this context, of course, we have assessed what is going on in relation to freedom of expression, and we have come to the conclusion that, after an assessment, which I am not completely finished with, a proposal will be made for the Stortinget which ensures a ban on political advertising on TV. There may, of course, be a different view of it, but one of the main reasons, as I perceived the majority of the population when it was up here, was just that you want some equal opportunities for the political parties, as well as that political advertising on TV can be very strong, and that someone doesn't want American states in this area. I can also add that there are very many countries with which it is natural to compare, which have such a ban. As far as I know, Sweden, Germany, France and Switzerland have such a ban. I see it as a mission from the bulk of the population, and it's completely in line with the program that I've also been chosen for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e601	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The Council of State does not see that the difference in e.g. a 10-second advertisement on TV and a full-page advertisement in a nationwide newspaper is not big, and that it can have the same effect on good and bad? And how big is the difference if we see a commercial on national television over, for example. local TV or does it hear on radio? In addition, it is possible to get this kind of advertising on the Internet. Is the Council of State also assessing the closure of these possibilities?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e606	The proposal that I intend to make will, on the basis of the draft consultation and consultation opinions, be concerned with advertising on television. So you can have different opinions about that. I record that the Progress Party has a different view from me, but I think it is quite important to get a better legal home than we have today for banning political advertising on TV.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e611	The time for the oral Question Time is over, and we're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e616	In view of the high number of questions to be answered, the President considers that she has to be informed by virtue of Paragraph 53 of the Rules of Procedure. The last 3 paragraphs have determined that only one supplementary question will be raised after the main question has been answered. This is considered necessary for the completion of the current map within the regulatory time of the morning meeting. There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 9, from the representative of Karita Bekkemelm Orheim to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be taken up by the representative of Britt Hildeng. Question 19, from the representative of Kristin Halvorsen to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative Rolf Reikvam. Questions 22-27, from the representatives of Astrid Marie Nistad, Vidar Bjørnstad, Petter Løvik, Jan Petter Rasmussen and Ågot Valle respectively to the Minister for Justice, will be answered by the Minister for Church Affairs, Education and Research on behalf of the Minister for Justice, who is suffering from disease. Question 32, from the representative of Karita Bekkemelm Orheim to the Minister for Health, will be taken up by the representative of Asmund Kristoffersen. Question 38, from the representative of Ottar Kaldhol to the Minister for the Environment, will be taken up by the representative of Laila Kaland. In addition, question 11 from Kenneth Svendsen's representative to the Minister for Food and Trade was answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs who directed him.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e640	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Culture: ‘In Rome’s January 22, 1999, an interview with the former project manager of the National Historical Centre at Eidsvoll from 1988 to 1992 showed that the extra cost of securing the difficult basic conditions in the worst cases would be 6-7 million. krones. State buildings operate at an additional cost of 25 million. krones. Is the Council of State aware of the information provided by the former project management, and what does the Council of State think of a difference of approximately 20 million. crowns for securing the ground conditions?»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e649	In this case, the Ministry of Culture has based itself on the professional assessments of State Building. The Ministry of Culture has therefore requested State Building to give an opinion on the issue raised here. In a letter dated 9 February, State Buildings delivered the following opinion: ‘The former project manager considers the evaluations of the additional costs due to the difficult basic conditions to be significantly overestimated. Even he believes that the extra costs are 6-7 million. kr. and not about 25 million. kr that State Building has calculated. We assume that Svenby’s – that is, the former project manager’s – ‘estimates are based on common experience figures and that he has not had access to the data made available by the basic studies. There has been a thorough work that unfortunately results in such high numbers for total costs. State buildings have been re-examined and confirm that these estimates do not provide a basis for a reduction in the estimate. This is because: complete construction must be completed, point walls must be reduced to a large extent, no mass balance in the land is possible, clay masses must be disposed of and deposited at a large extent with additional costs, existing wires must be converted, foot-and-mouth routes must be destroyed.» State buildings provide in the letter a detailed list of the components contained in the measures to be taken. Compared to the initial cost framework of 56 million. According to Statsbyggs calculations, a buried building on the selected site will require 24.7 million. SEK in additional costs at price level October 1998. I refer to this statement and I have to take note, for my part, that the State's professional body in this field has come to this conclusion in terms of the additional costs of the planned construction due to the difficult basic conditions. State buildings have been entrusted with the task of identifying different alternatives. They've started the drilling on an alternative blank. In addition, the unexploited use of existing buildings. These investigations will be completed in mid-April. As previously announced, the Ministry of Culture will return to Stortinget with the matter later in the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e687	I thank the Council of State for the answer, although she did not answer my question. There are many things that depend on and relate to the difficult basic conditions and traffic solutions, but that's nothing new. What surprises me is that there's a 20 million difference. NOK in respect of securing the basic conditions; they may not have changed so much in a few years. Those who have worked on this project for four years, serious, well-recognized professionals, can't be entirely on the ground, to put it that way. What I have also wondered about is why Statsbyggen has not shown an interest in the knowledge that is already in the project. In fact, they are not interested, despite being offered this knowledge. State building only “anthar”, according to what the Council of State said it did not meet its objectives. I am concerned because this will have consequences for the further choice of the road and for the progress of the project. I try again: Isn't the Council of State, like me, amazed that the two professional bodies have such a different opinion in terms of securing the basic conditions of the site?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e692	There is no problem for me to agree that you can be amazed at the things that have emerged in connection with the National Political Centre at Eidsvoll. It has become known that there is a major disagreement in this regard, and I am dealing, as I said in my reply, with the state's own professional body. That's the best I can do. I am also of the opinion that you must be fully alert to the problem of basic conditions when you are going to set up a new building, so that we do not experience any surprises in retrospect. I think it is important that all good forces can now be combined in this matter, so that we can move on. As I mentioned in my answer, we come back with the matter to Stortinget to spring. State buildings are now investigating several alternatives, an alternative land, with which there may also be problems, as well as looking at existing buildings. So my hope is that all the good forces can be combined, so that we can find a good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e700	I have the following questions for the Minister of Culture: ‘There is a significant value in concessions given to media companies, which are reflected, inter alia, in the stock exchange value of companies such as TV2, P4 and NetCom. In the context of new treatment of TV2's concession, will the Council of State consider a concession payment/purchase system?»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e709	I agree with the representative Terje Johansen that the concessions to TV2 and P4 have a significant value for the respective companies. TV2 has a concession to broadcast national advertising funded television until 31 December 2002. Under the terms of the concession, the concession shall normally be renewed. The State shall have taken a decision on this matter not later than nine months before the end of the concession. Therefore, it is now too early to suggest which conclusions will be drawn after this process.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e718	I thank you for your answer. So there is a common understanding that this has significant value, and it is then a value that the community adds to these companies. I am, as the Minister of Culture knows, a combined spokesman for finance and culture in the Left Party, and we both know what problems we have in getting enough funding for the cultural sector. So what I'm trying to do now is point to the income opportunities that lie in the concessionaries paying for the privileges they're being granted. I interpret the answer to the Minister of Culture to the point that at least she does not say no to evaluate this, and then it keeps to me in this round. So in order not to waste time, it now holds with a little smile as a confirmation that we agree on it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e725	I want to point out what I said in my reply to the representative Terje Johansen. Here you are in a situation where it's about valuable concessions, and it would be totally wrong for me as a concession authority to do anything or say anything here about this matter. And therefore my smile should not reach Terje Johansen in any way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e733	I will ask the Minister for Culture the following question: ‘One of the responsibilities of the company Twentieth Year Change – Norway 2000 AS is the marking of the millennium change. The 1999 budget allocated 55 million. crowns for this purpose. So far, how much has the company spent on operating costs, how much is left for distribution to municipalities, and how is the sum allocated?’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e742	I can inform you that the current year's allocation to the company Twentieth Year's Change – Norway 2000 AS is intended to be distributed as follows in the three main areas: The thousand-year-old 30 million. Twentieth-year projects 20 million. SEK Church marker 5 million. kr For the period 2000-2005, the company has committed State aid totalling 215 million. kr. The costs incurred by the company from its establishment on 12 February 1998 to 1 February this year amount to approximately 17 million. DKK, of which 10 million. financed by the 1998 budget. These include operating expenses — wages and salaries, office expenses, etc. – about seven million. kr. There are further expenditures on activities such as information and marketing. A separate design programme has also been developed for use by the company, municipalities, sponsors, etc., and I hope to create a basis for income for the purposes for which the company should serve. Of the 30 million. SEK which is set aside for the thousandth weekend, the company aims at a sum of 14 million. kr shall be distributed to the thousand-year committees of the municipalities. Of the grants for millennia projects, only a smaller proportion will go to the municipalities, as the main emphasis of the applications comes from institutions, organisations and individuals. However, municipalities will indirectly benefit from grants for thousands of-year projects through, inter alia: local activities supported by voluntary organisations. It is currently not possible to specify the amount of the total grant to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e763	Let me first thank the Council of State for the answer. Then I would like to ask the Council of State to inform the head of the information company in the Millennial Change – Norway 2000 AS that it is actually not very natural to orientate the Storting via telephone calls. Yes, it can actually go as wrong as when the Workers' Party itself called the Council's office and asked how much it would be spent on the Millennial Celebration – then they got the answer of 55 million. kr. So when I have been criticized for giving the wrong number, there are others who have to take responsibility. What the government's response here is that there are now 14 million left. kr for distribution to municipalities and institutions. That means that over 50 pst. has been used by the company for operations, wages, etc., and the remainder is probably not much to beat on the table for the celebration of the thousand-year weekend.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e770	The last conclusion reached by the representative Fossum is that it is not at all coverage. With regard to what was said about the information manager of the Millennium Company’s comments on the press – I guess it must be – I would say that it is important that we deal with this in a tidy way. The thousand-year-old company is established as a state limited liability company, it has its own board of directors and it is employed by its own administration. In a public limited liability company, as this is, the Council of State will be General Assembly, and we have, of course, in connection with the fact that we have granted money, we have also made a letter of commitment, which we will of course follow up. The company relates to the signals it receives from Stortinget and in connection with the letter of promise, and that is not a cover to suggest that the money is being used in a crazy way here. On the contrary, my impression is that the Twentieth Year Company has come to a very good start in getting an activity and getting a worthwhile promise in connection with the millennial change, as we hoped.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e780	I will ask the Minister for Culture the following questions: «The Company Twentieth Year Change – Norway 2000 AS has actively generated high expectations for state aid for thousands of years projects. In 1999, 20 million have been allocated. I'll give you the dollars for this. In addition, any sponsoring funds will be provided to the company. How much is the total application amount and the sum of sponsoring funds, and how will the Council follow up the expectations of municipalities?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e787	The company Twentieth Year Change – Norway 2000 AS" activities should last more than six years. The company is granted a grant of 55 million. 1999 kr and a total commitment framework of 215 million. kr for the period 2000-2005, which is to go for the three main purposes: the Millennium, millennial projects and the Church’s selection. I refer in this connection to my reply to the representative Fossum. Part of the funds allocated for the purposes will go to the municipalities. I explained that in my previous reply. However, the main importance of the company’s activities for the period 1999-2005 will be linked to the so-called thousand-year projects, where municipalities have a less central role. The company has received applications for more than 900 million. kr, and this happily underlines the great interest in the Millennium Jubilee. The applications are based on individuals, organisations, foundations, schools, etc. I am very pleased that so many good project applications have been made. This testifies to the fact that the Millennium Marking 2000-2005 has triggered a valuable creativity around the communities. The company’s board of directors must make a hard priority. However, I am sure that this will lead to many good projects for the Millennium Jubilee and thus contribute to the cultural promise I believe the Millennium Marking will represent. It remains for me and the company's objective to obtain significant amounts of sponsorship revenue so that these funds, together with subsidies from the State, can contribute to the financing of those main objectives. Negotiations with potential sponsors are ongoing, however, so that binding sponsorship agreements have not yet been concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e798	The working party has always been concerned that the thousand-year marking must not be at the expense of parts of the cultural budget. We also want a worthy mark, which could be the cultural policy promise that the Minister of Culture has not least talked so much about, but then the money for the celebration must come in addition to today's cultural budget. However, we are concerned that the high expectations of state subsidies created in the communities, including by the ministry itself, should be put back on the ministry as a pressure, which will just result in the need to redeploy funds within the department's framework. Unfortunately, I do not feel reassured by the Council of State's response on how to deal with expectations, and I have the following additional questions: Does the Council of State feel sure, with the overview she has today, that she will not have to come back to Stortinget with proposals for such redeployments?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e807	It is also my premise that the marking of the millennium change is a very special occasion, and therefore it should not be done at the expense of the other cultural budget. That was also the background to the fact that when I got a cut in the Ministry of Culture budget before Christmas, I decided to take it on the press support. Now we're not going to open that debate again, but that was the background, so the Workers' Party chose to cut the thousand-year mark. I am aware of what Gunnar Breimo points out, that there may be some great expectations in the communities of state co-financing. And I'd like to use this opportunity to say that my intention is to follow this up, that it should be added to the cultural budget, but I wish we could decide to try to be constructive in terms of how we're going to do this, and that we have confidence that the thousands-year-old company is also dealing with the situation constructively in consultation with political authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e817	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Culture the following questions: ‘During the millennial shift, the counties have set in motion work to designate a thousand-year place in each county. This shall be achieved, inter alia, by the participation of the State. It will require additional resources from the State to ensure that this does not affect the rest of the cultural activity. What is the progress of this work in the counties and in the department?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e826	In St. prp. No 55 for 1997-98, on the marking of the 2000-2005 millennium, it was stated that grants to thousand-year-olds in the counties will be broken down by application from county councils and by more detailed guidelines. Proposals for projects to be recognised as a place of millennia in the counties will be submitted to the Grand Duchy through the State budget for each year for the period 1999-2005, together with the corresponding appropriations. In St. pp. No 1 for 1998-99 the Ministry stated that the State grant to the thousand-year-olds in the counties will vary from project to project and must be seen in the context of the financial instrument established under Chapter. Item 320 73 National cultural buildings. While it would be appropriate for some projects to grant a grant involving a greater State share of the project costs than usual under the scheme, the State grant share for other projects will remain unchanged, but so that the realisation of the projects will be postponed in time for the period 2000 to 2005. That's the intention. The 1999 budget proposal clarifies that overall there will be limited resources available for the purpose. This will have consequences for the economic scope of individual projects and for the regional share. It is provided that thousands of years are to be chosen in dialogue between the county councils and the Ministry of Culture and that the Stortinget will take the final decision by means of a decision to grant. For the treatment of St.prp. No 55 for 1997-98, the Eidsvoll 1814 – National Political Centre was adopted as a millennial site for Akershus. When the 1999 budget was presented, proposals had been made for thousands of years for the following counties: Troms: new construction for Hålogaland Theatre, Nord-Trøndelag: Norveg centre for coastal culture and coastal nutrition, Møre and Romsdal: Jugendzentrumet and Buskerud: Veien Kulturminderpark. The investigation and planning work on these projects had not come far enough to promote them in the 1999 budget, and we had no more money. The Ministry stated in its proposal that it aims to promote several thousand-year-olds in the counties of the 2000 draft budget. There have also been proposals from Telemark on the Telemark Channel and Hedmark on the Domkirkeodden and the protection building with the Domkirkeruinen. In the run-up to the draft budget for 2000, the Ministry will discuss the thousands of years with the county municipalities that have proposed them. Key issues to be addressed are the scale of the millennial site, the investment framework and the cost allocation between the regional parties and the ministry, the operating costs and the responsibility for their financing, the plan of progress and the need for grants in 2000 and, where appropriate, later years. The Ministry thus wants plans, frameworks and responsibilities to be clarified for the proposals proposed by the Ministry in the 2000 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e848	I thank you for your answer. It was good to hear a State Council and not an information manager tell us that the company has come to a very good start on the work. I noticed that the Council of State stressed that the intention is that these appropriations should be added to the traditional appropriations for the cultural budget. I'll say it so strongly that it almost has to be a prerequisite, at least from our side, that it happens. Now I am aware that the budget proposal explains what has been laid down in the budget for progress, and that this will be reflected in every budget in the future. In fact, it was the Workers' Party as the only party that supported the Government's proposal for allocations to thousand-year-old places in the counties, while the bourgeois majority cut in that allocation now last. What I'm a little surprised about is how in all the world the states are going to be able to deal with this, not least in the years to come, when there are now quite great expectations and promises of money that you won't know about, and when they will come.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e857	Let me first mention what Alstad pointed out, that the Workers' Party was the only party that supported this with thousands of years, and just say, when Alstad finds reason to stress it, that I hope it is an expression of the desire now to be together to present the scheme that is both for the thousand-year projects, the thousand-year-old company and also the thousand-year-old sites. Obviously, we've put the list quite high and created expectations. Some of these places are construction projects that would in any case be realized, so we're trying to put it into such a context, and so we're going to use the opportunity that a thousand-year shift is, to try to get these cultural buildings around the country. Of course, it will be up to the Ministry to present a draft budget which will take care of this in consultation with the counties, and it will also be the Stortinget that will ultimately decide how we will achieve this. Let me also use this opportunity to point out that last autumn we saw the uncertainty of the economy, and that it was something that came so far after the staging proposition had been promoted, but it is my intention to follow it up, as I have said.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e869	I ask the Minister for Children and Family Affairs the following questions: ‘Criminal statistics show that 29 pst. by the registered Oslo violence is committed in the homes. The dark numbers are big. The crisis centres are overcrowded. Immigrant women are particularly vulnerable. A lot of kids get hit. The justice system is a burden on victims of violence. Family and gender policies should prevent family violence. The Declaration of Adulthood promised an improved family policy. What is the Government’s policy to combat and prevent family violence?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e878	Family selection is a problem area that is far less developed than the street selection problem. Living without power or fear of power is a human right, and this right should apply both in the streets and in the world. Growing up with power not only gives a bad childhood, it also increases the chance of a grown-up life that is influenced by power. Therefore, we need to work more to break the spiral of violence and address our children’s situation as early as possible, in the family, in health centres, in kindergartens, in schools and in recreational settings. We still know little about the extent of power in the world, but the police and crisis-centres statistics clearly show that the elected one is special about women and children. The Oslo police have conducted an investigation of locations for registered elected in 1997 and found that a private dwelling was the most famous crime scene. Half of these matters apply to the selected in relation to the couple. Electors in the world — as in the street — are usually men, while the victims are women of all ages. So we need to look at the relationship between power and sex. The relationship between power and alcohol is also documented, and I should like to see more politicians take the consequences of this knowledge as well. Crisis centres are one of the most important measures for violence against women and children. Nearly 2,500 women and 1,900 children sought refuge in crisis centres in 1997. In the largest cities, an increasing proportion of women have different ethnic backgrounds than Norwegian. It is likely that women with a foreign background have fewer options than Norwegian women when it comes to getting away from a statesman. Problems with languages and the housing market may be crucial to understanding these women's situation. Crisis centers are a supply of women for women, but almost half of those who live in the center are children. The Ministry is working on a draft action plan for children in crisis, which is also concerned with children in crisis centres. Public authorities, and in particular child protection, have a great responsibility to follow up the calls from crisis centres so that children get the help they need. The Ministry of Children and the Family will launch a model test in 1999, including: shall consider forms of cooperation between crisis centres and child protection for children in crisis centres. We also need to increase knowledge and action for men who hit. Many suggest that some of those who hit have grown up where they themselves were subjected to election or saw their mother being mistreated. Action as an Alternative to Violence is central in this context. It is also important to have a police and judicial system that works and provides justice for the victims – and for the accused. In order to expose family election crime, the police are usually dependent on notifications. And this can in many cases be seen as a great impression of the victims of violence. Police must facilitate the notification of such offences with the least possible impact on victims. At the same time, we need to look at the criminal prosecution of such cases. As it is now, it falls into just 7 pst. by notifying the parties. An important prevention tool is election alarm. The Ministry of Justice is now carrying out a project in which people who have been subjected to acts of treason may receive a home alarm that can be used to alert the police in tactful situations. Today there are over 160 active alarms, and 90 pst. Of those who have received an alarm, women. I agree with Mr Husøy that family and gender policy should help to prevent family elections. However, I would also like to stress that, in order to achieve the best possible means of combating violence in the home, it is crucial to have good cooperation between different disciplines within family and gender policies, social and health policies and criminal policies. This is why a working group has been set up, with the political participation of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, to take action and propose measures against violence and abuse against women. The selection looks at the problem complex in a broad sense, but will focus on the authority that is taking place in the home. On 15 February – Monday – as part of the knowledge acquisition process – we will hold an idiosyncrasy in which different actors in the field will participate. The selection will result in an action plan in June this year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e901	I thank the Council of State for the answer. As regards the description of the situation, there is a general consensus on that. But I was not satisfied with the part that concerned measures and what the Council of State actually does. I understood that the government actually has no proper policy in this area. I also want to take advantage of the opportunity to say that I was shocked earlier today by what I saw as a pretty fluffy way of responding to the representative Grethe G. Fossum – that family violence cannot be monitored through video cameras at home. This is a very serious topic, and it's difficult. But it is not new that it has a large scale and that it is gross domestic violence. The issue is that the government has not increased its efforts, it has actually helped cut down on the allocation of research and development activities in this area, and is thus reversing us in terms of having an offensive against family violence.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e910	If, instead, my response to the representative Grethe G. Fossum was perceived as flattering, I am, of course, sorry, for that was not the case. But I raised a problem. It's easier to do things directly on the street than to go into the homes. It has something to do with privacy and is a more difficult problem area. This is not a new problem either. Previous governments have also been aware of this, but it is not as easy to figure out what to do. That's exactly why this government is actually doing something, we've downloaded a selection of representatives from these three departments that I'm calling. We're going to have an ideal Monday, where we're going to call into the society that has the best way of doing this, and that maybe also has the best idea of what action we're going to take to fight against private power. I'm very happy that we've got a little more focus on this, because it's so easy to call out more police, more severe punishments and down with the criminal lower age, when we have so many statements about power in society. And in fact, I hope that action plan will lead to action being taken. I want to answer the claim that we don't do anything, and that we put things back. We're going to start things, and we're going to follow up on the actions that come out on Monday.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e919	I have the following questions for the Minister for Children and Family: ‘A study by the Fafo Research Foundation shows that immigrant families would like to have kindergarten space for their children. But often they don't have room, or the place is for animals. When we know that kindergarten is an important arena for integration into Norwegian society, this is worrying. What will the Council of State do to allow more multicultural children to have kindergarten space at an affordable price?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e928	Integration of children from ethnic minority groups is a high priority task for the Government. In this context, kindergarten is a central tool. The government's goal of full kindergarten coverage to everyone who wants it is firm. Of course, this applies to all children – regardless of ethnic background. The Ministry of Children and Family has been working for a long time on various measures to improve the integration of children with a migrant background into kindergartens. The Fafo study to which the question refers is a study carried out by the Ministry itself to monitor immigrant parents’ views and attitudes on the use of kindergarten. The study provides the Ministry with important knowledge to assess new measures that may increase the use of kindergartens in these groups. It is the first time such an investigation has been carried out among ethnic minorities. The conclusions of the investigation include: that rejection of the application and high price are reasons why immigrant parents do not use kindergarten to the same extent as the Norwegians. Children's playgrounds for all can only be achieved by increasing the establishment of children's playgrounds — and children's playgrounds that are more suited to their needs. Hausten 1998 launches a three-year project in Old Oslo with free short-term space in kindergartens for all 5-year-olds. The purpose of the project is, among other things, to: Seeing whether free childcare services will increase participation among immigrant children, and whether this in turn will improve their language training. It is an objective to provide ethnic minorities with good information on the types of services that can be provided by municipalities and urban areas. The Fafo study suggests that ethnic minorities lack better-organised information on what kind of childcare provision and what kind of provision exists. Both central and local authorities have a challenge here. The study by Fafo shows that the main reason why immigrant parents want kindergarten is that their children should learn Norwegian. The need for supervision is not the decisive factor for the use of kindergarten in immigrant families, as is the case in many ethnic Norwegian families. It is therefore important to adapt the nursery provision to the needs of immigrant families. Different types of short-term kindergarten and open kindergarten are good solutions and are often used by immigrant families. These offers also have a lower price. The project in Old Oslo is an important initiative for the Ministry of Children and Family for the next three years with regard to ethnic minorities and the use of kindergarten. The project will provide experiences that may be useful to other municipalities. At the same time, central and local authorities will gain knowledge of the tools needed to increase the proportion of children with a migrant background in kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e945	I thank you for your answer. I see that we agree that kindergartens are a very important arena for the integration of young people with a multicultural background, for learning Norwegian, learning about Norwegian society, and that's what parents are very concerned about. Now it is that in order to ensure all children's access to kindergarten – and I assume that the Council of State agrees that here we must not only create special arrangements, but secure space for all children – two things are necessary: increased kindergarten development and a lower price. And then I would like to ask if the Council of State would like to consider a free core time system on, for example. four hours, so that kindergartens can be a real alternative also for parents who have poor finances. There's some of this system in Oslo East about. My next question: babysitting has stopped – that's a fact. What will the Council of State do to advance the development of kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e954	First, I want to take hold of the last claim from the representative that kindergarten expansion has stopped. That's not true. I will also answer another question about this later today. Kindergarten extension has not stopped. We were unable last year to build as many places as we had hoped, but there is absolutely no stopping when it comes to building new ones. I hope it won't be in the future either, because we still need some new kindergartens. When it comes to the question of whether I can think of evaluating free core time, it's very much about economics, how much it will cost. From the Government's side, we are going to present a big message about the kindergartens in ours, where we will address many different aspects of the kindergarten problem in relation to both private and public kindergartens, in relation to the price level, etc. I can't, of course, promise the representative today that we will go in for free core time, but I agree that kindergartens are a good tool for integration, too, and I believe that the Oslo project, where they have free access, will provide us with useful information, in relation to what we should do to better integrate children from other ethnic minorities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e964	I would like to ask the Minister for Children and Family Affairs the following questions: ‘Several Norwegian children and young people suffer from severe depression. For many of these, traditional psychotherapy treatments produce almost no results. Now many doctors will increase the use of the so-called happy pills for children and young people. Does the Council of State consider this to be related to, or a result of, the last 15 years of family policy?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e973	First, I would like to inform you that there is no basis for claiming that the number of severe depressions is increasing among Norwegian children and adolescents. We don't have any investigations or state tactics that support such a claim. What we know from international research is that there has been a slight increase in the incidence of lighter depressions among children and young people, while the incidence of severe depressions in children and young people has remained stable for many years. In the case of severe depressions among children and adolescents, there is usually a disposition to develop a depression, which means that the young person is asking for something vulnerable that can develop into a severely depressive state. In such cases, medication may have a beneficial effect if the young person also receives other support and follow-up. Severe depressive conditions should always be treated and followed up by the general or specialist services within the paediatric psychiatry. It may seem unfortunate to mention the effective psychopharmaceutical prescribed by a doctor as a success pill. This type of medicine is used with good effect as a first-hand agent in severe depressions. Lighter depression usually passes and is usually related to life crises where the depressive reaction can be a normal response to a stressful situation or unexpected loss experience that the child or the adolescent does not master without further ado. With the proper help of the immediate surroundings or of the auxiliaries, such symptoms will usually subside or disappear completely after a while. However, we should not minimize the fact that children can develop more easily depressions, among other things, in connection with parental breakup. In relation to the situation-induced depressive reactions, medication will not be the best, but that the closest ones are present, follow up and support the children or the young. We don't have the exact data to figure out the context of ongoing and severe depression in children and adolescents. What we know is that such states usually have composite causes, where both biological and environmental factors are involved. We also know that children and young people living in isolation without a stable social network generally have a greater risk of developing current mental and social problems than other children. Family policies over the past 15 years have mainly been measures to ensure the best possible framework conditions for families with children. It applies both financially at the time of child welfare and by extending care leave in relation to births. In addition, we have introduced cash support to small children's families to dampen the pressure on family members while the children are small. When women take more part in paid work, it has also led to a great deal of effort to build up more and vary childcare facilities. In addition, other school-source supervisory arrangements are in place. Through parental guidance programmes and co-operation measures, government agencies have helped to support and strengthen parental roles in families with children. The aim of the measures I mention at the end of the day is to prevent psychosocial problems in children and young people. In my opinion, it seems highly unlikely that some of these family policies have led to severe depression in the growing family. On the contrary, studies show that parents are spending more and more time with their children. Nor is it documented that children and young people with out-of-work mothers have poorer mental health than other children. The main challenge, as I see it, is to make parents, other adults and the auxiliaries able to support and help children through different types of crises. This happens e.g. through an active family policy including: enable children and parents to spend more time together.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e988	I thank you for a good and profound answer. However, I find it regrettable that the Council of State does not see – as we do in the Progress Party – that the policy that has been pursued is a cause for the problems that some children have today. Furthermore, I want to clarify my question, and it concerns the care issue. To find the essence here, I would like to point out that, in a lecture at the Oslo Conference on Children and Divorce, Joan Kelly said that it is ironic and not without interest that we have been subject to joint care a much more nine-time review than we have ever done with regard to the traditional solutions of association, such as sole responsibility and primary care. The question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State also consider doing something about the child law in the area of shared care and main care?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e997	Now the representative asks additional questions about something quite different than questions were asked for the first time. I may not answer that, but at least I will try to answer something. In the case of shared care for children in the event of a break in life, the problem is quite difficult. It can work for some. For others, it certainly will not work. It can also be quite traumatic for children not to have a home they call their home, but still have two different worlds. Here are a lot of issues that I might have had to ask myself about a separate post to be able to substantiate and give a full answer. The issues are well-known. I have no plans to change the Children's Act at the point the representative asks about. But as he also knows, I have just received a NOU that includes: is about this issue. It's going to be sent out on the phone, and in the next round we're going to come back to Stortinget, and then we're going to have a full review of the issues when that time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1007	This question, from the representative of Karita Bekkemelm Orheim to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be raised by the representative of Britt Hildeng.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1010	‘The Council of State has previously stated that no one should lose sight of the Government’s priorities in child and family policy. In Oslo, municipal and private kindergarten development has stopped completely, and there are 4,500 children in line for kindergarten. The City Council justifies the lack of funding and bet in kindergartens with uncertainty about the cash support. What will the Council of State do to resolve this possible uncertainty so that the children who want it will have a nursery?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1017	The representative Britt Hildeng expressed his concern in the question that kindergarten development should be stopped. Oslo Municipality is used as a example of many children not having children's playground. Before I address the more general issues raised by this question, I would like to make some comments about the situation in Oslo, which I believe the representative knows very well. I am aware of the fact that there are 4,500 children on waiting lists to have a kindergarten in Oslo. But many of these kids have all the space in kindergarten, e.g. in a family nursery or in a private nursery. Thus, there is no real picture of the number of families who cannot meet their need for supervision. Nor can I see that there is a basis for claiming that the nursery building in Oslo has stopped altogether. The Ministry gives an overview of the payment of grants to new kindergartens, and these figures show that hundreds of places have been established in the metropolitan areas of Oslo during 1998. Nor, as some claim, has child-care facilities stopped at national level. But that growth in new places is decreasing when more and more municipalities have full needs coverage, should not surprise anyone. Nor should we forget that we recently took out a full year's coal, the 6-year-olds, from the kindergarten. When the government introduced the cash support, we recognized that the scheme would lead to changes in demand for nursery facilities. We expect the biggest changes in children's places under three years, but we also expect slightly lower demand for children over three years. In the draft budget, we do well to do so and indicate that we will take initiatives to re-examine needs during 1999. We haven't forgotten about this, and these days we'll get something else. carried out an investigation in a selection of our municipalities. In this study, we will learn more about whether the need for childcare facilities has changed after the introduction of cash support and whether municipalities have changed their plans for the expansion of the sector. It is difficult to establish a clear number of needs for kindergartens. This is a problem that both we and previous governments have been struggling with. The example from the municipality of Oslo shows that, in my opinion, a realistic estimate of the need is not given just by looking at waiting lists provided by municipalities. The most important source of information about the need will always be parents. In the study to the Statistical Central Bureau ‘Children’s families’s supervisory systems, professional participation and the economy before the introduction of cash support’, parents were asked which supervisory arrangements they would like if they could choose independently of price and access. The results of the study indicate that very many people want their children to have space in the kindergarten. Many also want to be able to combine children’s home with other forms of supervision, especially that parents themselves fit their children for a few days a week. We need to look at the number of SSBs, etc. to find out about cash support e.g. have seen an increased need for part-time spaces rather than the need for full-time spaces. We also plan to carry out the same type of investigation this winter. We will then be able to see better how the cash support has affected the nursery sector. As the representative is aware, the Government shall submit a communication on the nursery sector. The notification shall be made on schedule until the Grand total during this six-month period. The notification shall discuss the future framework conditions for the kindergarten sector. A discussion about the need for babysitting will go in as part of the message. The need can vary greatly from municipality to municipality, and therefore it is difficult – if not impossible – to set a national target for the need for childcare facilities. I would like to think that this question is raised by a concern that kindergarten development has stopped many places. As I said at my inception, it was expected that the cash-stamped villa would affect the demand for nursery facilities. But the pretenses we have, which show that there were more than 5,000 new kindergartens in 1998, do not indicate that there is a stop to expansion. I see that it's still a bit to go before the goal of babysitting to everyone who wants it is achieved. And that's among other things. therefore the Ministry is now working on a communication to the Stortinget. It will hopefully raise the discussion of how we can achieve this common goal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1034	I thank you for your answer. I am pleased that the Minister expresses ambitions for full child-care coverage. But we have to deal with the realities, and there's a pretty big gap between demand and actual coverage. The government had the ambition to build over 13 000 new kindergartens. After I've been informed, 3 500 have been built. The minister said over 5,000 -- I don't know what's right. A survey carried out by Norwegian Teachers' Team shows that 1/5 of the municipalities in the country are proposing to add up to 150 kindergartens, representing 5,000 – 6000 kindergartens. Long studies on needs coverage should not be necessary until you can see that we are facing an immediate need for more kindergartens. I would like to ask the Council of State whether she does not find the development we have seen, suspicious, and whether we need not only a long-term study of needs, but also immediate measures so that the development of kindergartens can get back on track.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1043	I sigh a little heavily about the way a person presents the question: First, the nursery building has ‘stopped up’, second, it has to ‘get on the rails again’. Now, in my answer, I have tried to tell the representative that kindergarten expansion has not stopped, and we have numbers in the department that are higher than what the representative said. I'm going to be the first to admit that we couldn't build as many places last year as what we had as our goal. I have a certain understanding that some municipalities want to have a better basis for assessing how many places they need once the cash support has been introduced. We have also made clear in the government budget proposal why we have a relatively low target for the next year. The reason is, of course, that when we get an arrangement that supports cash, the need will be different than it was before and without. Therefore, it is important that the municipalities build not more places than they need, but that they build as many places as they need. And then we get a full discussion about this when we put forward the big message about the kindergartens, and hopefully also a better basis for saying how many new ones we need.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1053	I'm going to go to equality – and then the press people went! I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs: ‘There has been massive criticism of the Department’s UN report on equality. It is incomplete and incomplete, claims the Equality Ombudsman. Will the Council of State take the initiative to produce a better and more comprehensive report on gender equality in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1064	Norway ratified the UN Women's Convention in 1981. As a Party to the Convention, Norway is obliged to report to the United Nations Committee on Elimination of Discrimination Against Women, the so-called CEDAW Committee, every four years on what we do to meet the requirements set out in the Convention. Norway shall now deliver its fifth report. The CEDAW Committee has developed separate guidelines on the reports to be reported. Among other things, this applies to changes in legislation and actual changes in society affecting women's lives, and any difficulties in meeting the requirements of the Convention. It is also clear from these guidelines that report No. 2 and the following reports shall focus on the period after the previous report has been delivered. For Norway, it means the period from 1994 onwards. The Ministry of Children and Family Affairs has been responsible for coordinating the work of the report, but all the departments and the Equality Office and the Equality Centres were invited to record the report in their respective fields. This has been done to a large extent by the different disciplines. I think that in this way we secured sufficiently up-to-date recordings of developments in Norway in the current period. I have noticed that the Equality Ombudsman criticises a report in which she herself has been able to influence the content – and has also done so. I myself believe that the report meets the requirements of the guidelines. He is also no less extensive or detailed than the four previous reports from Norway. These have been well received in the United Nations system. To the extent that the report in some thematic areas is not particularly extensive, there is no significant legal or factual change in these areas since 1994. The ratio of these areas will then be reflected in the previous reports of Norway on the CEDAW Committee. This applies, for example: Article 15 of the Convention, which lays down equality requirements for the law of men and women and provides equal opportunities for the exercise of legal rights. The draft report was sent to a selection of women’s and gender policy organisations and to the Equality Environment and Gender Equality Competence Centres. They were all invited to comment and supplement the report in English so that comments from them can complement the content of the report and/or be attached to the report when sent to the CEDAW Committee. I think we've given the equality system and the organizations the opportunity to be heard in the UN about what they like about the aspirations of women in Norway today. I would like to stress that the critical comments on the ban have been translated and will be attached to the report. I would also like to stress that this is not something we are obliged to do, but we are still doing it in order to give the CEDAW Committee a broader picture of Norwegian remoteness and different political views than a State report could provide. So far, I have only registered two comments letters from the organisations as well as the comments from the agency and the Equality Centre. I also note that there has been some interest from organisations even after the report was reported in the media. On request, LO and NHO received the report and gave their comments. The report will be supplemented at some points in the light of the comments we have received. Otherwise, as mentioned, the written recordings from the comment round will be added to the report as they are, but I don't think it's advisable to send the report out on a new comment round, as the report is already delayed. Having said this, I would also like to say that I have noted the criticism from the Equality Ombudsman about the participation of voluntary organisations in the work on the report. I want to make sure that the Department reviews the procedures for preparing the report to the CEDAW Committee and that we assess how, at an early stage, we can involve voluntary organisations and other non-public bodies dealing with gender issues. I can also say that the Government will consider establishing common guidelines for reporting on the various human rights conventions Norway is bound by.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1086	I am pleased that the Minister for Children and Family signals that she is taking with her the recordings that have been made, at least after the preparation. I think it is striking when it is reported through the media that there has been a lack of input from central organisations such as the EU. Women’s and Development Forums and Centres for Women’s Research, and making a report such as: does not mention the cash support in relation to a gender equality and women perspective, which I perceive as an essential part of the Norwegian gender equality debate in recent years. There are also a number of other things missing, including: information on the follow-up to the Beijing Conference. As far as I understand it, the background is that the CEDAW Committee would like to have the report, that it wants to focus more and more on equality, to contribute to increasing the attention of authorities to gender equality within each country, and not least to strengthen cooperation with non-governmental organisations. After the answer I have now received from the Council of State, I expect that at least in the coming years there will be a greater focus on the last part of that work. I have sometimes wondered if the reason for this could be that the Minister for Gender Equality has a bad conscience for lack of action in the field of equality, but I'm going to end the speculation there so far.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1095	No, the Council of States does not have a bad conscience in the field of equality. And I can tell the representative that when the last report was sent in in 1994, he was not listening at all. After all, we've sent him to a lot of organizations. One of the organizations that has gone out and publicly criticised us has not sent any comments back to the ministry, even given them the opportunity to participate in influencing the content of the report. What I mean is actually a game for the gallery in relation to the work we've done. But as I also mentioned in my answer, we want to focus on the next step so that all of the different organizations that it's natural to ask about recordings will have access to it at an earlier stage. When I look at the four reports that have been submitted before, they have sometimes been sent to everyone; other times they have not been sent out at all. In 1994 – when I was not a minister, but a representative from a very different party – no one heard the report, so it has been somewhat different practice in that area. But as I said, I don't have a bad conscience in this area. And I think the report will be good in the end, when we're going to send it over to the CEDAW Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1105	This question, from the representative of Kenneth Svendsen to the Minister for Food and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1108	I have a question for the Minister of State: ‘“Network for women in the Nordic region” is a county municipal project in the Nordic region. The aim of the project is to increase the involvement of women in society. At the last municipal elections, such a group in Beiarn worked actively to strike people at the municipal elections. This year, a group in the municipality of Vågan started work on establishing their own women's list. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate to use public funds from the budget of the Ministry of Local Affairs to organise elections and to establish electoral lists?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1117	Networks for women in the Nordic countries, also known as NettNo, aim to bring more women into the role of active contributors and suppliers in the development of jobs and communities. The network works with a number of projects and actions. The organisation of new jobs, road safety, measures for children, near-environment upgrading and networks for young children’s parents are at the heart of their work. I see this work as very positive and important, not least in terms of making the district councils of Northern Ireland attractive places of residence for women. That parts of the women's network have also committed themselves to recruiting more women into local politics, I think is positive. I think most people agree that it's very unfortunate if the women don't get or are very little represented in local government. In municipal and county elections, all voters have an unlimited right to correct the ballot by deleting candidates on the lists. They also have access to give candidates an extra voice by cumulating them. The electoral law does not prevent groups of voters from agreeing in advance to make corrections to their ballots. It is also free to participate in electoral actions aimed at weakening or strengthening individual candidates or groups of candidates on the lists. According to information provided to me by the municipality of Nordland, women in Beiarn and Vågan municipalities have not used public funds, but their own efforts to get more women into local politics. Although the work is carried out under the control of a network receiving public funds, I consider this to be unproblematic.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1128	I thank you for the answer, which was not the answer I wanted to get. I'm not going to engage in a fundamental debate about the need to use public funds to get women into politics and business. In my view, it is the woman's own responsibility to participate in public life, both in politics and in business. This case is very special. What the minister did not respond to is that they are starting their own party, which is also illuminated in the NettNo newspaper. We know that on the Storting there is a majority in order to have a quota system and to want a gender distribution of at least 40 pst. women. Then I wonder if the minister sees that it might be contrary to Stortinget's desire to use taxpayers' money to start a political party consisting of members of one sex.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1135	Firstly, according to the information I have received, it is not used by public funds in this work. In a democracy, we cannot prevent single women, including those who are connected to women's networks, from working for matters they are concerned with on their own leisure time. When it comes to the question of what I think about the work to possibly start a separate party, it is fully legal in Norway. They have to follow the rules of the game and the laws that apply, whether it's a woman's own list or a woman's own party. That I have chosen to belong to one of the usual parties is something else, but it is entirely legitimate to establish new parties in Norway if you otherwise follow the guidelines that apply.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1145	I have the following questions for the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘There is a need to find more effective measures against Iraq to ensure that Saddam Hussein complies with UN requirements. The boycott doesn't hit Saddam's fear regime, but the civilian population hard and brutally. Does the Government consider it possible to identify effective measures that may also include a change or removal of the boycott affecting the civilian population?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1154	I would like to remind you that I answered questions about Iraq in the spontaneous Question Time on January 27th this year. As I have said several times in the past, the Government shares the concern about the humanitarian situation of the civilian population in Iraq, as expressed in the question put by Mr Husøy. I would also like to take this opportunity to stress that there is not and has not been any boycott in terms of food and medicine for the civilian population in Iraq, either in terms of procurement or aid. The relevant Security Council Resolutions contain unrestricted access for Iraq to import food and medicine into the civilian population. Even a few months after the adoption of the economic sanctions for the other product groups, the UN Security Council also decided to sell a certain quantity of oil to Iraq to finance the purchase of the necessary humanitarian supplies. However, the government of Iraq chose not to avail itself of this funding opportunity and instead relied solely on domestic production. At the same time, measures were taken to reduce the domestic ability to produce food. It was only after several years of this disastrous policy on the part of Iraq that the country's government opposed to taking advantage of the possibility of a limited sale of oil and imports of food under the supervision of the Security Council. Following Saddam Hussein’s attack on his own civilian population in 1991, the UN Security Council adopted a resolution recommending that the Iraqi Government grant international aid organisations access to all those in need of humanitarian assistance. Nor has this resolution been satisfactorily followed up by Iraq. We cannot ignore the fact that Iraq has deliberately allowed the situation of the civilian population to deteriorate, to use it as a means of pressuring the sanctions. Despite the fact that the responsibility for this difficult situation for the civilian population must be entrusted to the government of Iraq, the international community wants to contribute to the improvement of the situation. Many countries have provided humanitarian aid. Norway has increased its aid to Iraq from 30 million. DKK in 1997 to SEK 51,5 million. 1998 kr. We are in close contact with the UN and with Norwegian non-governmental organisations for further efforts. On 20 February last year, the UN Security Council decided to increase the framework for the quantity of oil that Iraq can sell under the so-called oil-for-food programme. Norway supported this. The allowable sales volume is now very close to what Iraq exported before going to the invasion of Kuwait. UN speakers say that the increase in the framework has led to stabilisation of the humanitarian situation in Iraq. This is positive. At the same time, it has become known that the Iraqi Government has failed to order products of vital importance for vulnerable populations, despite the availability of funds and despite the fact that these products have been cleared for delivery. In the new year, the UN Security Council has taken the initiative to re-examine how the UN should best deal with the Iraq issue. Three expert panels are now to assess the situation of weapons of mass destruction, the humanitarian situation and outstanding issues of prisoners of war and property. I have previously expressed the importance of the central role of the Security Council in this matter. From the Norwegian side, we have given our full support to the work that is now being done in the Security Council, saying that we are willing to contribute to this work if desired. Norway has made experts available for UNSCOM's work, and we have given signals that we are positive to continue Norwegian efforts on the disarmament side. With regard to the panel, which will be given the task of discussing the humanitarian situation after all, we have said on the Norwegian side that it is important to come up with solutions that can help to improve the situation of the civilian population, as the representative Husøy mentions. In this context, it is also important that the Iraqi Government not be given the opportunity to push the civilian population ahead of itself in its attempts to circumvent its obligations regarding weapons of mass destruction. However, in order to find a satisfactory solution to the humanitarian situation, while ensuring that Iraq is not given the opportunity to develop weapons of mass destruction, it is dependent on the Iraqi Government showing a minimum of willingness to cooperate with the UN.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1187	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am aware that the matter has been raised earlier, and I am also aware of the answers. But I think it's happening so much that it's time to ask the question again, among other things. Because there are a number of other countries that react negatively to the boycott and believe that it has played its part. In my opinion, the boycott is inhuman, immoral and a violation of human rights. UNICEF estimates that 5,000 – 6000 children under the age of five die monthly as a result of the sanctions. The fight against a unscrupulous dictator and the tyrannical does not defend this. Once the financial sanctions have not worked, I think you have to look for new methods. I hope that the Foreign Minister will exercise pressure so that the United Nations and the Security Council try different ways from what they have done now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1198	As I mentioned in my reply to representative Husøy, the Security Council has set up three expert panels to look at the situation, and it is in my opinion just to do something new. To sum up my answer, Norway wants to see the Security Council actively involved in this matter. We support the fact that the humanitarian situation should be addressed in its entirety, in line with the other issues, and we will make it possible for the Security Council to reach an overall position on how the Iraq issue should be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1206	I will ask this question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘An Israeli submarine capable of taking nuclear weapons is currently operating in Norwegian waters. Additional tests are planned. Who has authorised such exercises and does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think it is wise for Norway to import security policy problems in this way?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1215	The Ministry of Foreign Affairs got involved for approx. a year ago submitted a request from the Ministry of Defence to consider a request for an opportunity to test an Israeli submarine in Norwegian waters, using the Marine War Station in Marvika. It was a Dolphin-class submarine. Israel has had three submarines of this type for construction by German shipyards. The request was subject to assessment by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, including in relation to the legislation on exports of defence equipment and services. It was found appropriate to consider the request as a service under this legislation and concluded that there was a basis for granting an authorisation. On the basis of a broad assessment, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in a letter to the Ministry of Defence gave a clear signal for the use of test facilities at Marvika Wars Station. Let me make it clear that the Norwegian authorities have reason to believe that the submarines are of a conventional type. We have also argued that such a permit does not involve any special arrangement for Israel. Let me be informed that there is also a request for consideration for the arrival of two of these Dolphin-class Israeli submarines. The Government is committed to complying with this application under the previously mentioned legislation approved by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1228	I'm going to be grateful for the answer, which contained a couple of interesting moments, in particular the clear emphasis that this was an Israeli ship, as it goes under the German commercial flag in Norwegian waters – which in this way is completely strange, when, according to Jane's information, it is taken over by Israel over a year ago. It is clear from the Foreign Minister’s reply that Norway has seen this as an Israeli ship. It must then be allowed to ask why this co-media is operated not even by the German military, but by the German commercial flag – whether it can be intended to cover the actual use of it. Then it was said that the government had assumed that it was a conventional submarine. Now I'm not going to appoint any military expert, but it's probably that many submarines can supply both nuclear weapons and conventional weapons. From what you can read from international expertise in this area, there are a lot of people who believe that Israel has achieved this in order to have an opportunity to fight back with nuclear weapons if Israeli land-based nuclear weapons are to be extinguished. I would ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to comment on whether it is a good idea to import such opportunities into Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1235	Let me first say that it's right that we've assumed that it's an Israeli ship. Why it goes with the German flag, I can't answer, but if it had been a German ship, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs didn't have to be inside the picture, because then, according to NATO rules, it would have been the Defence Command as far as I know – at least the Ministry of Defence – that had handled the case. I do not agree that it concerns imports of security policy issues, as the representative mentions in his question. This is a technical test of submarines built by a German shipyard for Israel. The request has been practically justified and has been assessed in relation to the legislation on exports of defence equipment and services. As mentioned above, following a broad assessment, the government found itself able to give a clear signal. We thought that this was to be considered a service, and that it was therefore natural to base no other legislation than that which was already in place, and which, as I mentioned earlier, has been approved by Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1245	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘What is the status of the implementation of the 1995 United Nations Agreement on the management of migratory fish stocks outside the economic zones of the coastal States, and what is done by Norway to achieve the agreement?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1252	The 1995 UN agreement on the management of migratory fish stocks lays down rules on the duty of cooperation between States fishing on the high seas, i.e. enforcement rules, dispute resolution and rules on the management of migratory fish stocks. The agreement was ratified by Norway on 30 December 1996. The Agreement has not yet entered into force. This will only happen once the agreement has been ratified by 30 countries. To date, 19 countries have ratified the agreement. However, a total of 59 States have signed the Agreement. Several of these countries are now actively working on the necessary steps under internal legislation to ratify the agreement. This includes, inter alia: Canada and the EU countries. The EU countries will ratify the agreement together when all Member States have taken the necessary constitutional steps under the internal laws of each Member State. However, it is uncertain when this process will have been completed. Norway has both multilaterally, through the UN system, and bilaterally invited other States to join the agreement, so that it can enter into force as soon as possible. Norway has regularly addressed this issue in the UN General Assembly in the field of maritime law. We have also stressed the principles of the agreement in the work of regional fisheries organisations and called for ratification through bilateral contacts. Although not yet in force, the United Nations Agreement has already had an impact, particularly in relation to the work of regional fisheries organisations. Norwegian authorities are actively working to strengthen such organisations. This applies, for example: through the practical administrative cooperation of the NEAFC North-East Atlantic Fisheries Organisation. Such cooperation shall include, inter alia: management of Norwegian breeding herring in international waters, the so-called Muttavet, and work for a common control and enforcement regime. To the extent that the UN Agreement represents innovation in international law, such as: enforcement against foreign vessels on the high seas cannot, however, be invoked without further delay before the entry into force of the United Nations Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1269	I thank you for the answer, and I assume that the foreign minister is of the opinion that this is very important to get in place. Food experts believe that pirate fishing in international waters is the biggest threat to future food supply, and there are indications that Norway is using some of the principles and treaties contained in this agreement in refusing to license vessels that want to fish in Norwegian waters and that have been in the waters where we do not want them to fish. But what is interesting is that in the perspective report presented by the Ministry of Fisheries to the Stortinget, which is now to be dealt with, there is an indication of an extension of the fishing limit to 250 nautical miles. This is a question that is not simple international. So my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is, what does he see as the most important thing: to get the UN agreement in place, or possibly to work unilaterally to get a 250-mile fishing zone?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1276	In accordance with the Adult Declaration, the Government prioritises efforts to promote sustainable regulation and management of fish stocks outside national coastal zones of 200 nautical miles. Although the Government does not support a unilateral expansion of these zones, we have advocated international as well as national measures to counter non-regulated fishing that undermine established resource management regimes. The 1995 UN agreement on fishing on the high seas will provide a significant framework for international law to strengthen the enforcement regime in the high seas. Norway has, as I mentioned earlier, consistently brought this up in the United Nations, and we have referred to the agreement as a useful impetus in the work. Furthermore, the Government has implemented measures such as: includes licence denials for fishing in Norwegian waters of vessels that have fished unregulated at the open sea – as the representative of Rasmussen also mentions. After all, such measures have been seen to be effective in several foreign fishing environments and there is no doubt that, within the framework of international law, we will take all necessary measures to contribute to the sustainable development of the important marine fisheries resources.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1286	I have a question for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘Recently, there has been a process of bundling and purchasing fish processing establishments with trawl quota rights and ownership in vessels with conventional fishing rights – this in order to gain control of fishing resources based on short-term profit motives. In particular, the Lofoten and Vestreal regions may be at risk of losing raw material that is the lifeblood of the community, and local ownership may be weakened by the erosion of the law. What measures does the Council of State consider to be appropriate to counteract these developments?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1295	Let me start by saying that it is my experience that when fish processing companies are trying to link vessels with quota rights, it is primarily to ensure that businesses have continuous access to raw material from a long-term perspective. Secondly, I would add that the change of ownership as a result of the sale or merging of fish processing plants does not require permission from the Ministry of Fisheries. The position of the Ministry of Fisheries on such matters only occurs when industrial holdings own fishing vessels. Authorisation to acquire fishing vessels is assessed on the basis of existing legislation and established administrative practices. Ownership of the fishing fleet is also regulated according to what will serve Norwegian fishing industry best. Special emphasis is given to rural policy considerations, where a fleet distribution is assessed in relation to the raw material needs of the installations in the country. This evaluation includes the economic, socio-economic, district and other factors to be given weight. The Ministry of Fisheries practice in such cases is that concessions granted to fishing industry companies' vessels cannot be detached from holdings.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1304	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I do not find it reassuring, especially the last sentence that the trawls cannot be detached from the farms. It's the raw material it's about, it's the rights it's about. For example, in the Vesterålen, there are only two privately owned enterprises, which are thus locally owned, and J. M. Nilsen at Andenes and Gunnar Klo AS on Myre. The rest is purchased from the outside, by large groups, and it's clear that it's from profit point of view. It's about getting hold of the shares, and then they can do with the raw material just like they want. I do not think the Ministry of Fisheries, with the policy being pursued today, can prevent this, and I have to ask the question: Is it good Central Party policy that this is allowed to happen?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1311	I do not know if I fully understand the question raised by the representative of Bastesen. What is practice today is that when ships owned by industrial companies are for sale, the assessments that I mentioned in my reply will of course be submitted, and demands will be made for the raw material to be reserved for the company that was originally granted the concession. But per year. Today I have had no issues where industrial companies have tried to sell a trawler, for the purpose of owning trawlers, is to have access to the raw material the company needs. Rather, there are issues where fishing industry companies want to buy up vessels owned by fishermen today, which have arrived at our table. The Ministry of Fisheries followed the practice that if there are fishermen in the region who want to buy a vessel, it will be those who are given the opportunity to obtain a concession — if not, the concession will be given to the fishing establishments of the region to maintain the vessels and quotas in the region. Delivery conditions will be added to such concessions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1319	I have a question for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs: «The administration of local industrial funds is regulated by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, which sets annual capital requirements limits. The capital limits set clear limits on the ability of municipalities to participate actively in industrial work in addition to smaller investments and the establishment of small enterprises. Is the Council of State willing to revise the legislation in such a way that, in order to ensure economic activity and residence, municipalities are freer to use the funds?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1328	The regional policy instruments of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs are managed at three levels. Municipalities manage the local food funds. The second level, the county councils and the SND regionally, deals with matters up to a fixed capital limit through delegated frameworks. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the SND are the top level of administration and deal with the main issues. The three levels of government shall follow the same guidelines for the various aid schemes. The aim of municipal food funds is to strengthen the ability of municipalities to carry out local economic development work on the basis of local environment assumptions and opportunities. Through the municipal food funds, municipalities are given the opportunity to support projects that are difficult to capture for the instrument at county and state level. This applies mainly to small projects and projects that are often at an early stage. Given that we have three levels of administration for the management of regional policy instruments, it seems natural to me that capital limits are set for which issues to be addressed where. The amount limits set for each project can be seen as an effective delimitation in relation to the different levels of administration. This is also confirmed by NORUT Societal Research, which evaluated the municipal food funds in 1996. On the basis of feedback from municipalities managing the local food funds, it is my opinion that the legislation ensures adequate business activity and sufficient flexibility.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1339	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was not very encouraging to hear that the Council of State believes that the limits on the amounts are known enough. These limits of money are sufficient if they are to be used for milling, knitting or rose painting for that matter. I have to draw the attention of the Council of State to the fact that the investment value of a chess may be five or six times that of the local government. A jack can create four-five secure jobs, but it is rejected in the SND system, because of course SND should only bet on large boats. But for the small village and for the municipality, five-six scars are of great importance. There's a difference between weed baking and chess fishing!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1348	I fully agree with Bastesen that there is a difference between skewing and skark fishing – if that is what he said. I'm open to looking at the money limits. They are evaluated every year, but we have to follow up the division of labour we have between the three levels of government. For the current year, the amount limit has already been set. There's been a circular rewriting. But this is something that's assessed every year. I have noticed the views of the Bastisen. I think it's equally important that you look at what kind of priorities and assessments SND has at regional and central level in terms of the structure of the fishing fleet.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1360	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Labour and Administration: «Nearly 4 years after the flood in June 1995, the married couple Astrid and Rolf Rødås, Åsnes, live in an old caravan. This is due, among other things, to the fact that the county council in Hedmark has not decided whether it is safe or not to live in the old house that was damaged during the flood. The case handler at the county refuses to have taken a long time. Does the Council of State consider this to be reasonable, and will the Council of State do anything to advance the matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1369	The government attaches great importance to the rapid and effective application of public administration procedures. However, citizens' rights shall also be exercised through the obligation of an administrative body to ensure that a case is as well informed as possible before a decision is taken. The matter in question arose in connection with the taxiing of damage to the house after the flood in the spring of 1995, where the husband and wife Redås raised doubts as to whether the basic conditions were safe. The couple therefore asked the municipality to assess the basic conditions under the provisions of the Planning and Building Act. The municipality engaged two technical companies to carry out basic studies and sentence measurements. If the municipality had found out that the reason was not safe, the municipality would ban the repair of the damaged house, as had been done after the flood with other buildings in the municipality. However, in view of the results of the measurements, the municipality found that there was no doubt about safety. This Decision was maintained by the municipality's permanent selection of plan items, which dealt with the anchor from the married couple Red-Eye after the original decision. A year and a half ago, in September 1997, the county had the matter under consideration. The matter was given priority by the county council. However, in February 1998 new information was provided in the case which made it necessary for the county to obtain assessments from the municipality. It has also been necessary to go extra round with one of the technical companies to determine whether the technical basis for the municipality's assessments has been good enough. There has also been contact between the county councilman and the couple's lawyers along the way. I would like to stress that this has been a complicated matter where information has come along, while the county has had to obtain technical assistance in the preparation of the case. Therefore, in the light of the information I have, I will not characterise the state's use of time in the case in question as unreasonable. However, for the sake of the married couple, I am concerned that a decision is taken on the matter as soon as possible. I am therefore pleased to announce that the county will take such a decision next week.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1386	I thank the Council of State for a good and complementary answer, with good history. I am pleased that a decision in this specific case will be made next week. But when that is said, I would say that, in some cases, it will be claimed by the applicant that public spending an unreasonable amount of time. If the Council of State thinks of a restriction on, for example: one year as a maximum period of proceedings, and if the case has not been decided within this period, shall it be terminated in the favour of the applicant?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1393	Of course, with regard to the balance between being quick and efficient and having an adequate procedure to take the right position, there is a balance in each case. Hoping on a proposal now that limits the length of proceedings to one year, and then letting the case go to the advantage of the defendant, I think it is too easy. However, in the context of improving the efficiency of modern administration and new management, we also look at the time of public proceedings. I must therefore be allowed to come back to possibly answering confirmatory or confirmatory questions from the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1404	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister of Labour and Administration: «The State Pension Fund has become less and less available in recent years. Pensioners who call to get answers to different questions about their pensions are at risk of having to wait up to an hour or more. With modern telecommunications technology, which is waiting for you to move forward in line, telephone bills are getting very high. Is this an acceptable way of placing expenditure on pensioners and should not be borne by those who have ordered the service?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1413	Initially, I would like to note that it is obviously not acceptable to wait on the phone for 1 hour or more to arrive at the Staten Pensionkasse. Such waiting time is also included in the exceptions. As I see it, the most important thing in this case is how the pension fund can become better available on the phone. It is better to reduce the waiting time for callers than to cover the cost of ringing the rings associated with continued long waiting times. The reason why it has become more difficult to get to the State Pension Fund on the phone is a general increase in enquiries with the Pension Fund, and that it has not been able to deploy sufficient resources to deal with this. In addition, in the last three-four months, the Pension Fund has experienced a timing of telephone enquiries regarding mortgages. This huge increase in telephone calls has led to poor telephone availability at the central desk of the Staten Pensionkasse as well as at the customer centre. However, the pension fund is very aware of the availability problem, and has put in place work, among other things. these measures: The State Pension Fund estimates to increase the telephone reception in order to answer further requests for housing loans. The pension fund strengthened half a year ago the staff of the customer centre from 10 to 16 people. They have built up competence in a complex subject, such as retirement. I therefore expect these people to be able to contribute to a better and more efficient counselling service. The pension fund has launched many new procedures and systems in the field of pensions, leading to faster treatment and better information for individuals in the pension process. This could lead to fewer enquiries to the Pension Fund, among other things. on questions of how far a case has come. The pension fund has purchased a telephone control system in which all telephone requests are ‘logged’ so that you can always follow telephone availability and response times. In conclusion, I would like to mention that the State Pension Fund – like all others with limited resources – has to make a continuous assessment of the resources deployed to respond to telephones, in relation to other tasks, such as the processing and payment of pensions, letter replies, etc. I would therefore like to await the impact of the measures that the Pension Fund has taken to improve the availability of the phone, before deciding what should possibly be done further in the case. I also see the need to assess the management and organisation of the State Pension Fund in the context of the major challenges facing the Pension Fund. First of all, I would like to look at alternative models of financing the pension fund's operating budget, so that it is better able to cope with the large increase in the amount of business experienced by the agency.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1439	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It seemed that there are many positive measures about the future in relation to the State Pension Fund. The Council of State also indicates that the State Pension Fund has undergone several organisational changes, and it was in 1996 that the customer centre was set up to respond to the enquiries. According to the managers, these organisational changes have had a negative impact on the working environment. The establishment of the customer centre has led to irritation and frustration, according to the National Audit Office’s studies. The case handlers also confirm that the intentions of the customer centre have not been fulfilled. As the Council of State was concerned, it was decided, after feedback from the employees, to staff the 16-member centre in 1998. Can the State Council, based on the measures outlined, envisage a better working environment within the State Pension Fund, and will the customers of the State Pension Fund expect better and cheaper service in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1446	With regard to the environment at the customer centre, I have no direct answer to give the representative here. However, when the customer centre's staff has increased from 10 to 16 people, and with the skills that these telephone answering machine needs to provide proper answers, I believe that the burden will also be reduced, and that the overall environment of the customer centre will improve. Otherwise, the Pension Fund’s problem is to cut its operating budget by examining the annual budgets, while increasing the efficiency, reorganisation and rapid response requirements. For that reason, I also mentioned in my reply that I want to see how the operating budget of the State Pension Fund is financed, and what form it has, so that there is a better relationship between the tasks they have and the resources they are allocated to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1456	This question, from the representative of Kristin Halvorsen to the Minister for Transport, is raised by the representative Rolf Reikvam.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1459	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Residual identification fluids glycol and acetate have been found in the groundwater on Gardermoen. Contamination of groundwater would destroy a very valuable groundwater reservoir. What will the Council of State do to monitor and clean up pollution from groundwater and to prevent such leakages in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1468	Oslo Airport AS immediately initiated measures to monitor and clean up pollution after their detection last week. The measures taken include: Detailed studies to determine the extent and spread of glycol and acetate that have reached the soil and groundwater. The groundwater detected is pumped up and purified. This will simultaneously stop the spread of pollution in groundwater. The groundwater resource has been monitored since the start of operations for several dozen wells. It was during routine checks, which are part of this monitoring, that the pollution was detected. This monitoring programme is now being upgraded to an even more detailed monitoring so that all possible irregularities are recorded in more detail and, if possible, at an earlier date. Operational measures have been taken to reduce chemical consumption, for example by more mechanical snow clearance. At the same time as immediate action has been taken to clean up what has happened, measures have been put in place to prevent the occurrence of similar situations. These measures include: Intensification of internal procedures to reduce chemical consumption Protection of the vulnerable part of the groundwater resource by priority use of the western runway under severe weather conditions The Swedish Aviation Administration will evaluate operations and technical solutions with a view to optimising groundwater protection. One will also benefit from external expertise in this work. I look seriously at the situation that has arisen and will follow the matter very closely and ensure that these measures are complied with.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1500	I thank you for your answer. The measures taken to clean up what has happened seem to be sound. In the evening post for today there is a rather large look at the bodies of groundwater, and a scientist from Earthforsk throws a fire torch into it. He claims that it is not possible to operate an aerodrome with such an activity without this affecting the quality of drinking water. I assume that the Council of State does not agree with this claim, but in any case we have to deal with such claims from research teams in some way. My follow-up question to the Council of State is: Is the Council of State, based on what has now been said by research teams, concerned about the problem of taking measures to prevent contamination of drinking water at the aerodrome?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1509	The seriousness of this case is that the Storting, when this aerodrome was adopted, was located where it is, assuming that there should be no such chemicals in groundwater. That's what's the starting point. That is why, by tomorrow, I also asked for a full report from the Swedish Aviation Agency on all procedures, registrations and use of additives to see what this is like, and to make an opinion about it. In addition, in the near future, I will also carry out an inspection myself to address all the issues related to the safe protection of the environment. I have also asked for a general evaluation of all operating conditions at the aerodrome with a background in the operating situation and in particular with a focus on safety and the environment, and I have asked for such an evaluation report by the end of February.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1517	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for the Church, Education and Research: ‘The struggle over national or Sami curricula led to a number of parents applying in February 1998 for the approval of the establishment of a private school on the basis of the Tana montessori principle. When will the Ministry respond to this application?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1526	The Tana Montessori Association applied in letter of 1 February 1998 for the approval of a private ground school at Tanabru with the right to state grants after private school. The applicant requested to be assessed in accordance with the purpose of private spherelova § 3(b) ‘shipped as a professional educational option’. The application has been dealt with in accordance with the usual rules of procedure in such cases. According to § 25, paragraph 2 in Privatskulelova the application was sent to the host municipality and the State Education Office in the county for pronunciation. The applicant was informed of this in letter of 12 February 1998. The letter also confirmed that you would like to obtain further information from the search provider. The ministry has had regular contact with the seeker both in writing and by telephone about the professional content of the application. On 20 January of this year, the Ministry received a notice from the applicant to deal with the matter on the basis of the file. The application will then be treated as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1539	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer and would like to remind you that it is over a year since that application came in. The principle of fitting is well-known and recognised as an alternative to pedagogics, and the consideration of those who are going to start school, of elephants and parents is important in this context. It is also important for the public school in the municipality to get a clarification for their planning of the school year further. It is gratifying that the Council of State now says that it will be a clarification as soon as possible. I hope it'll be a positive clarification, but it could be very good to get a closer look at what is in this case in the outline as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1546	I can understand the representative Løvik's desire to get an even more precise answer. It is entirely right for the representative to say that it is a well-known principle that has been approved in many places in the country. It is therefore not the montessor principle that such questions have been addressed in the correspondence and in the final assessment to be made by the Ministry. There are some peculiarities in this case that make things more complicated. To try to calm the representative Løvik, I would like to say that clarification is to be done, so that both parents and the public schooling in Tana can be informed in time of the planning that applies to the next school year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1554	I would like to ask the Minister of Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘The Ministry is a brake pad in the work of providing Norwegian students with a better indoor climate.’ It is the Vice-Chairman of the Parental Committee of Primary School who writes this in a note according to Norsk Skoleblad. [[FUG]] According to the Children's Ombudsman, 15 billion is needed. kr to rust up the schools. In the 1999 budget, SV proposed an earmarked loan scheme of NOK 1 billion. for indoor climate action. The Vice-Chairman concludes that it must be financed by the State. Does the Council of State consider this differently from the Vice-Chairman of the FUG?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1563	The representative Rolf Rikvam puts an important theme in focus when he considers what can be done to give Norwegian elephants a better indoor climate. It is well known that a good indoor climate in the school is a prerequisite for good learning. The regulation on environmental protection in kindergartens and schools, drawn up by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, will hopefully make it more tidy in this area, with a coherent and comprehensive regulatory framework. One often meets the perception that these requirements are new and expensive, but the regulation is a long way from updating and continuing the established principle and nothing new, even though some of the requirements are new, for example. the requirement for internal control. The rules of the regulation are clear: activities covered by the regulation shall be «healthy». The regulation also opens for local assessments of what will be satisfactory standards in the various areas, and it is therefore up to the school owners to ensure that the school facilities comply with the requirements, including the establishment of internal control systems. I would also like to remind you of my answer in Question Time on 20 January of this year, where I included. referred to measures taken by the Ministry to ensure better working conditions for children and young people: The Ministry has issued a guide on indoor climates: ‘How to create a healthy indoor environment in school buildings’, which was presented on 14 December last year. The guide was created by the next owner in the Parent selection for the base ball. The target groups for this issue are in the first row of school politicians, members of planning and building committees, school leaders, teachers and parents’ trustees. The goal is to contribute to a greater knowledge of the indoor climate in terms of health, well-being and learning conditions for students, and of the factors to be taken into account when creating a good and healthy indoor environment in the school building. In 1998, the first school building price was distributed. The purpose of this price is to stimulate municipalities and counties to build good school facilities. Every year, a publication will be created describing the school system that received the prize. In cooperation with SINTEF in Trondheim, a booklet is published during the spring, which takes steps to build good schools. The booklet is addressed to the municipalities and is intended to help and support the planning of school buildings. This will be an example of good solutions. In the case of state resources, it has been a principle that the State does not provide funds for school buildings, as the Stortinget confirmed by the 1999 Bushet Decision. An exception has been our school forms that have taken new coals into the base ball. I will then show that large sums have been invested in school buildings in connection with the basic school reform. The State provides compensation to municipalities for the costs of new localities resulting from the inclusion of six-year-olds in the basic school. The state compensation corresponds to an invading amount of DKK 5.2 billion. All this seems to me to show that the department is not a brake pad in the work of giving Norwegian elephants a better indoor climate, although it can always be done more.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1588	I thank you for your answer. If you have a lot of good will, one might say that there was an answer to the question. My starting point was that the Vice-Chairman of the Parental Committee for Primary School has pointed out that there is a need for government funding. He/she is based, inter alia, on: what the Children’s Ombudsman has shown, namely that 15 billion kroner are needed to upgrade the schools so that we can achieve a satisfactory indoor climate. My question was quite specifically linked to it. Does the Council of State consider it possible with the large investments we see ahead of us, with the need for money that one has, that the municipalities can do this without getting state funds? I expect that the vice-leader is correctly quoted in the Norwegian School Bulletin, and what he was obviously concerned about was that in order to get ahead of this, one has to give state funds. I would like to have an answer as to whether the Council of State sees that additional state resources are needed to carry out this improvement that has been demonstrated to be necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1595	I have written that the representative Rikvam is a man of good will. I tried to answer two terms, because there were just two things that the next-leader had said, both that the department was a brake block, and that the most sovereign means. When it comes to the latter, the Storting has dealt with this matter as late as in the course of the budgetary work, and it is quite right that SV should propose funds for this purpose, but as far as I think it was only those who voted for it. I'm not in any doubt that there's a great need. But I don't want to be good for 15 billion, because I don't think the Barneombode, in spite of good will and good people, has a very accurate analysis of this. I'll keep in mind that these are the municipalities' responsibilities, and that you have to find a way to follow up the new regulation, which I'll come back to Stortinget with and inform you about at a later date.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1602	Questions 22-27, from the representatives of Astrid Marie Nistad, Vidar Bjørnstad, Petter Løvik, Jan Petter Rasmussen and Ågot Valle to the Minister of Justice, will be answered by the effective Minister of Justice Jon Lilletun.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1608	I ask the following questions to the functioning Minister of Justice: ‘In the context of the Women’s Health Committee’s presentation of its report on women’s health, they pointed out that a public Women’s Election Committee should be set up. The size has asked for the same in the management of the budget-inner. [[1998-99]] S. No 4 to the Ministry of Justice's draft budget for 1999. Will the Council of State follow up the Storting and the Women's Health Committee to appoint a Women's Choice Selection?»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1617	The work against violence and abuse is a priority of the Government. This priority also applies to the choice and abuse of women and the power of private choice. Chosen against women, threatening power and sexual assault are a big problem both for those who owe it, and too close. In addition, there is fear of power, which will affect the freedom of action of the individual. The choice of women is a problem complex that results from several cooperative circumstances, based on the lifestyle of each individual, and is influenced by relationships such as: economics, drug problems and other personal problems. So I want to look at the problem complex in a comprehensive perspective. This will make it possible to build up better protection against violence and abuse against women in cooperation between police, prosecution and health services, as well as voluntary organisations that need to be involved with their knowledge. The government will work for long-term measures that can reduce female empowerment. This is also the background to the creation of a working group with political participation by the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of Justice to address and propose measures against violence and abuse against women. The group shall address the problem complex in a broad sense. Work shall turn into an action plan to be completed by summer. Part of the group’s work is to develop a knowledge overview of research and competence in the field, as well as to provide suggestions on action to address the fight against violence and abuse against women. There is a need to draw up an overview of the efforts already made so that we can look at what can be done to address the problem. On this basis, the Group shall submit proposals for measures based either on existing schemes or on new schemes. In the context of the Action Plan, an Ideas will be held on 15 February 1999. The aim of this idea is to obtain views and input from other public bodies and voluntary organisations on concrete proposals for actions that can be included in the action plan. On the basis of the idea, a particular focus shall be on violence and abuse in the home or where the relationship between the victim and the victim is otherwise influenced by personal relationships. As part of the group’s work in the context of the action plan, it would therefore be natural to consider the report of the Women’s Health Committee and the proposals contained in this report. The working group will also consider whether the creation of a women’s selection is a priority, in conjunction with other actions proposed by the group.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1630	I thank the Council of State for your answer. The council said this is a problem complex. I'm really glad that the government has seen a political selection down with participants from different departments to look at this. But I'm afraid that it can have a political character, a character of perhaps it's the Christian People's Party's family policy that's prevailing in the Government. For the good reason, I had felt much more confident that all the aspects of women's power and what is happening in society had been better distributed and had received a more serious reception in relation to actions to be inserted when we start the process, if the selection had the width I want such a selection to have. Therefore, I am still urging the Government to take an initiative in line with what the Storting has said about the matter, and, as the Council of State said, the Women's Health Committee has also pointed out in its report.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1637	I'm overconfident about the sincere involvement of the representative Nistad in this matter. But I'm sorry that the representative Nistad said it would be a problem if it were the Christian People's Party's family policy that would be central to working on such issues. But it could be right now. I have the list of those who are invited to this idea virtue, in front of me. It's e.g. Women's Research Centre, Equality Office, Gender Equality Competence Centre, Norwegian Crisis Centre Association, Crisis Centre Secretariat – a wide range of all those concerned. The government hasn't refused to create such a selection, but I think it's wise to hear what such a wide group of representative organisations and people think about this issue before we finally conclude. Perhaps we will finally agree, Mr Nistad and myself, that that makes sense, but we will therefore wait for this due diligence.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1652	I ask the following questions to the functioning Minister of Justice: ‘The police officer in Trondheim has introduced training and police evidence for door guards at the city’s outposts as part of measures against unrest and violence. Will the Council of State take an initiative to ensure that police officers in the larger cities of the country set in motion accordingly?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1661	It has been stated in the 1997 food law that in serving places, police approval should be given to police officers when the police find it necessary. Police may require the completion of courses as a basis for approval. A corresponding allowance for the conduct of a course also had one in the previous hotel law. The Ministry of Justice already decided in 1995, in consultation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Energy and with the trade organisations, that it should be set in motion for law enforcement as a temporary arrangement. The police officers were asked to make a concrete assessment of the need for a course based on local circumstances. To the extent that the course is held, these shall be mandatory. One further assumes that the execution of courses will take place in close cooperation between the police operating units of the police and the concerned transit points and law enforcement officers. It is a requirement that the planning and implementation of the course be carried out in cooperation with the local and inter-branch authorities. According to what the department knows, most police districts have established an approach to the guards, either in the form of a course, a background check or other contact with the industry. The police officer must, based on a concrete assessment, assess the need for background control and instruction on course implementation. In this context, I can see that the police officer in Oslo recently sent out a pre-notification notice to 25 serving places in the center with instructions to have approved law enforcement agencies. A course programme has also been developed over 25 hours in cooperation with the National Association of Travel Companies and the Association of Hotels and Restaurants. Ordinary guards will be background checked and given a provisional approval. They will receive a certificate of identity which will appear and will be required to complete the course within six months. Thereafter, a security guard shall grant permanent approval. The Oslo Police District aims to demand that 50 serving sites conduct a course for their security guards in 1999. The fight against the crime of violence is one of the main areas of the Government's operation, and the exercise of power in connection with cities of convenience must be taken seriously. In the light of the new food law and the lessons learned in connection with the course business since 1995, the Ministry intends to issue a new circular to the police officers during the first half of 1999. Whether serving sites should be required to have approved law enforcement agencies must still be assessed on the basis of their location and the risk of violence and other crime associated with the service location. This assessment must be made by the police officer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1676	I thank you for your answer. In view of the fact that this is one of the points of the government action plan in connection with action against the election, I had expected a slightly more offensive response. To show that a circular was sent out in 1999, I don't think I'm any particular offensive, in relation to this issue. Most people who comment on the image of choice in connection with serving places indicate that it is at the least serious serving places that are the most chosen and disturbed – something that people draw from coming out on the street until they come home. Therefore, I had expected the government, when it has included this in the action plan, to have been far more offensive, had said that a demand for police officers to start this immediately, and pointed out to the serving sites, that if they do not obtain approval within a reasonable time, they will also be disconnected. I expect that this will be done in the form that is sent out of the ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1683	We might define "offensive" differently. But what we're doing is we're going to send out a circular and let the police officers know that this is going to be serious. Here I have an overview of those who are already in the process, Trondheim and Kristiansand – Oslo called me in my post – but it must of course be clear that the police officers are going to assess which cities are going to have such a scheme. It is obvious that both the representative Nistad and I can find quite a number of serving places with the right to make a donation, where there is absolutely no need to watch at all, because everything works as it should. There will be a minority of cities that have a strong need for it. Then an authorisation will be required, there will be a course with the following authorization instructions, and we would also like to implement measures if the directives are not followed, so I believe that with this circular we show that we are offensive.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1691	‘The aim is for convictions to start settlements immediately and within two months of the judgment being enforceable. Studies show that more than a thousand convictions have not started settlement more than three months after the date of the conviction. This is partly due to the fact that the police spend a long time sending the judgments. At the same time, detention centres are available. What will the Council of State do to ensure a faster settlement?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1698	One of the main objectives of the Government's criminal policy is to combat crime effectively. As part of this, it is important that the response to infringements comes as soon as possible after the infringement. It is therefore necessary to transmit to the prisons for enforcement, without undue delay, enforceable judgments with an unconditional prison sentence. In this context, it is also necessary to optimise the use of prison capacity. Free prison capacity needs to be sought. The statistics show that the capacity utilisation of the prison system in 1998 has been about the same. 83 pst. The prison capacity shall be used for the settlement and maintenance of unpaid fines. The aim is that the execution of the sentence should take place as soon as possible after the judgment is enforceable and that custody should be provided within 24 hours of the date of the decision of the prison in order to avoid detention in police detention. However, because the provision of care varies considerably during periods, there is always a need to try to keep a certain reserve in closed prisons. Criminal law shall implement the settlement of both prison and community sentences immediately and within two months of the date of receipt of the judgment. To a large extent, criminal services are coping with this, but there is an ongoing ambition that time spent implementing should continue to decline. The Ministry of Justice will carry out the next performance measurement after the first half of 1999. The Government will then assess the need for further key actions in this respect. Just before the turn of the year 1998-99, the Ministry of Justice conducted a survey of most of the country's police districts on the length of time required by a judgment until it was sent to a prison district to review the time of settlement. Most police districts reported a one-week trial period. However, there were a few police districts that had longer proceedings. In spite of these, the average time taken for the reported districts seemed to be about the average. three-four weeks. There are different reasons why bedtime may be slightly higher than desirable. The transition to new technical processing systems and procedural procedures, as well as the two-institutional reform, seems to create temporary delays in some places. Much of this is about to be corrected. Other factors affecting the time of proceedings of the police may be difficulties in getting in touch with convictions, applications for renunciation and pardon, as well as statements of incapacity for settlement. This will always lead to further work for the police and thus give a ruling on the length of the procedure. In the year’s letter of assignment to the police, the Ministry of Justice has made it clear that judicial judges with unconditional imprisonment must be sent to the prisons for enforcement without delay. Furthermore, in a short time, the Department will organise a symposium dedicated to the effectiveness of the criminal action chain, where all stages in the chain will be widely represented. In my view, these measures will raise awareness of the objective of rapid resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1713	I thank the Council of State for the answer. We all agree that we need a rapid response, rapid criminal settlement and rapid execution of the sentence, both for social reasons, to have credibility in the criminal system, and to be able to settle the individual. In some cases, there is talk of serious criminals going and waiting for atonement. I would like to stress that I do not think it is satisfactory that there are over a thousand waiting more than three months, especially because these are some serious cases. It is said that it is mainly due to police deficiencies, that policy-makers spend on average almost two months on sending cases, which one would believe are largely carried out. The Council of State has now said that they have sent out a circular stating that the police need to speed up. I would ask the Council of State to take more action by asking the politicians how they will do it within a set deadline. Can the Council of State consider looking at, for example: Are the courts able to transmit judgments directly to the prison districts?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1722	The last thing, if it can be sent directly, I want to take with me as an idea for assessment. The review that I had shows that on average the situation is not as alarming as some newspaper lookups could indicate, and that the representative Bjørnstad referred to. I probably reacted as the representative, Bjørnstad, when I saw these listings. It is obvious that one must have a certain capacity in relation to any maintenance. So we don't want the police arrests to be used too much. At the same time, I think that by conducting an investigation before Christmas, following up with a new circular and notifying an evaluation, which is already to come to spring, it is done gripping. I mean a has taken the consequences of the unfortunate episodes you've seen. Then get the next evaluation to show if what we've done is enough. Then I take along the idea that the representative of Bjørnstad had.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1734	I allowed myself to ask the following questions to the functioning Minister of Justice: ‘Sunnmore Police Chamber has been given two new positions for 1999. At the same time, the operating and overtime budget is cut by several million kroner. The police officer has therefore sent letters to the soldiers on the Sunnmare to move out overtime only if life and health are at risk. What will the Council of State do to remedy this totally unsustainable situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1743	It is allowed approx. 4.3 billion dollars for police districts and police special agencies for operation in 1999. This is an increase of 7.2 pst. Compared to 1998. The lease shall cover fixed variable costs and ear-marked means. The variable costs are approximately. 12 pst. of the total exercise. For this part of the 1999 concession, this will mean a small reduction, but it is important in this context to stress that all fixed costs, even after service lists, have been fully covered. For Sunnmøre police districts, the increase of 5.4 pst in 1999 is expected. Compared to 1998. The total allowable amount is 66 million. kr. If a subtracts, then the variable part like that. also includes the operational and overtime budget, Sunnmøre Police District for 1999 has had a reduction of NOK 659 000. The claim of a decrease of several million dollars is thus not correct. When it comes to the writing, the police officer has stated that, on the basis of having received a budget with a reduction, he will indicate a strict budget line to the leaders of the operating units, before looking at the effects of the reduction and before allocating the budget internally. The leadership group in the police district has subsequently dealt with the following writing and adopted some clarifications as to what should be the basis for overtime expression, compared to what is called ‘life and health at risk’. In this context, it is also important to stress the police officer's responsibility to keep the budget. Sunny police district is one of the five police districts to set up new posts in 1999. In this it is also that the Department is working on strengthening the police district. There is no doubt that the Ministry of Justice carried out an inspection at Sunnmøre Police District in time 1. – 4 February of this year, including resources and resource usage was a central theme. In the follow-up to the inspection, the Ministry will look at the resource situation of Sunnmøre police districts and compare it with the other police districts.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1756	I thank you for your answer. I note that there is a lack of communication between the Council of State and the Sunnmaøre Police Chamber about the size of the reduction in the fees at variable costs. But at least the Council of State admits that it has been a reduction, among other things. on operation and overtime. This is a development which, in my opinion, is contrary to the wishes of the Storting to strengthen the active police force. In a letter to the Justice Committee dated 25 January, police organisations stated that the Ministry of Justice’s proposal would result in ‘an average reduction of 5 % in police activity and a number of unoccupied posts’. Then I'd like to ask, isn't this a violation of Storting's intentions when one came with additional permissions? What will the Council of State do if it turns out that this is the case? And in concrete terms, what does the Council of State say – in addition to what he mentions here – that the Department is working on strengthening the Sunnmore Police District?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1765	To take the last first. It is clear that when the visit was 1. – 4 February, the evaluation work has not come so far that one can say what concrete actions a later one will take. But, as I said, one has already fixed an unfair undercover on Sunnmøre by creating two new options for the redistribution that was made in the current budget. In the previous question time, I answered questions from representatives who came from areas that had lost settings, settings that have now benefited from Sunnmøre – so here one has tried to allocate the resources you have, in the most fairest possible way. When it comes to this with what the Storting put in its budget decision, I think the Government has followed it up in a good way. In order to deepen it, I might say that there will be a dialogue between the government and the conciliators that I hope may show that this is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1775	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the functioning Minister of Justice: ‘What assessments does the Government intend to grant a visit visa for close relatives of people authorised to stay in Norway’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1782	It is true that persons who have received a residence permit in Norway have the opportunity to contact their close relatives. Such contacts may take place in Norway, in the home Member State or in a third country. Visa means admission and may be granted for up to three months if requested, inter alia. family visits, tourist visits or business visits to Norway. As long as the third country applying for a visa has not been expelled from Norway and there is no reason to doubt the information it provides in relation to the visa application, the code’s starting point is that a visa should be granted unless ‘political, security or immigration policy considerations’, as stated in the fifth paragraph of Section 106 of the Foreign Regulation. The criterion ‘policy considerations for immigration’ is the key to examining visa applications. A visa shall not constitute a means of immigrating to Norway. ‘Immigration policy considerations’ speak against visas when it is not likely that the applicant will leave Norway voluntarily when the visa period is over. The starting point for such an assessment is in addition to the information provided by the applicant himself, the knowledge of the foreigner’s general situation in the applicant’s home country, as well as previous experience with other visa applicants from the same country as the applicant. If the general situation in the applicant’s country of origin is difficult, this is a moment when he or she may wish to remain in Norway. However, such a starting point may be modified by information on the individual situation of the applicant. Experience suggests that the more closely associated an applicant with his or her country of origin, the more likely he/she is to return voluntarily. The welfare needs of each case are also important. In this assessment, the relationship is central, whether there are particular reasons for the visit or not. Parents are granted e.g. usually visas irrespective of their country of origin.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1796	I thank you for the answer, which was as expected. I will mention an example of children from an African country, the youngest is seven years old, parents are imprisoned in their home country, and they have aunt and siblings in Norway. In the first refusal — when visiting the aunt — ‘policy considerations’ were used as grounds and that one was not in close enough family. In the second application, when they were going to visit the siblings, the rejection was still justified by ‘political considerations of immigration’, a remark that one had noticed the family situation. This must mean, however, that the Government, in reality, places greater emphasis on immigration policy than on the purely familial aspects, so that it would be more honest to say that that is the reason. Furthermore, even though it is a seven-year-old child, it must mean that immigration policy concerns count more than the humanitarian and human aspects of visitation visas.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1805	Now I believe that the representative Rasmussen understands that I cannot deal with individual matters from Stortinget's speaking room. In general, however, I would say that I said that, for example. Parents, as a general rule, are always granted residence permits and visas, showing that, in many cases, one places more emphasis on family reasons than on immigration policy reasons. And then you'll always have a hard border country, and you'll probably be able to base different assessments. While it is important that serious social, human and family conditions are taken into account, this regulation must be observed at the same time. We recognize that it is difficult, but still try in a conscientious way to carry out the best possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1815	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: ‘At a hearing held by the Oslo Bispedi Council, it was found that the Serbs in eastern Slavonia in Croatia are being subjected to extensive harassment and that the situation is steadily deteriorating. One of the Serbian prisoners of war from World War II writes in a letter to Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik that the fascist organization Ustasha has revived in Croatia. In the light of this information, the Council of State will consider providing humanitarian assistance to Serbian asylum seekers from East Slavonia’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1824	Norwegian foreign authorities are fully aware of the situation in eastern Slavonia in Croatia. We keep up to date regularly through reports and direct contacts with various international organisations monitoring the human rights situation and the security situation in eastern Slavonia. In addition, the foreign authorities have made four delegation trips to the area, no later than November 1998. On such trips, of course, there is also direct contact with Serbian representatives from different teams. In this way, we get a broad background for the assessment of the situation. We are therefore familiar with the information provided during the hearing and these have been included in our assessment. There is no doubt that the situation in East Slavonia is difficult for ethnic Serbs and that developments after 15 January 1998 have not been satisfactory. However, there are no dramatic changes in the recent situation. Ethnic Serbs can often be subjected to various forms of discrimination and harassment. They may also be exposed to threats, especially from individuals. It is clear that, in particular, this last one is very scary and causes the Serbs to want to leave the area, especially when this comes in addition to a difficult economic and social situation, including, among other things, high unemployment rates for the Serbs. On the other hand, the number of reported conflict episodes has fallen markedly towards the end of the year, and there is no basis to say that such threats they are exposed to are generally followed up by action. I remember in this context that the police in the area are composed of both Croats and Serbs, and that the neutrality and functioning of the police are under international surveillance. In view of the knowledge we have of the human rights situation and the security situation in the area, we cannot see that every Serbian asylum seeker needs protection or residence on a humanitarian basis. This assessment coincides with the assessment as inter alia: The UN High Commissioner for Refugees has done so. Consequently, each application has to be assessed individually, where the situation of each individual has to be assessed in a concrete way in relation to whether he needs asylum or fulfils the conditions for residence on a humanitarian basis. This means that, like a number of other neutral organisations, we cannot see that the general situation or development of the area is such that all Serbian asylum seekers must remain in Norway. On the other hand, there may be people who are in a particularly difficult situation, whether because of their relationship in Croatia or other personal circumstances, and who thus fulfil the usual conditions for their stay in Norway. Of the less than 2,500 ethnic Serbs who have applied for asylum in Norway, about 500 have been granted a residence permit. 150 people up to now, just after a concrete assessment of their situation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1835	Yes, we see clearly here that there is a puzzled acceptance percentage, and that shows how narrow the loop is into the Kingdom of Norway – or how easy it is to be thrown out again. When the Council of State mentions that the number of reported conflict episodes has fallen sharply at the end of the year, it is not so strange, because there are not so many Serbs left. What's serious is that it's not just the Serbian refugees who came from other parts of Yugoslavia to eastern Slovenia as refugees, but it's those who have lived there for a long time. More people now report ethnic cleansing. The Croatian Helsinki Committee is talking about the drive of the Croatian authorities to create an ethnically clean area. I could have given a lot of examples, but that doesn't give me the time. The Foreign Law § 15 provides full protection against persecution by providing residence on a humanitarian basis. Shouldn't it be possible to review the situation when new information comes to light, and I believe that through this consultation? Does it not make an impression when ethnic cleansing is reported?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1846	Well, that makes an impression. And it made such an impression that the government contacted the High Commissioner for Refugees, based on the situation that was made known on this ring, to see if they had changed their view of the former when it came to repatriation to this area. The assessment from the High Commissioner was that people there had it hurt, they had it hard, and it was harassment. But in relation to large other areas in the world where that is also the case, the assessment and the advice given by the High Commissioner did not provide a basis for changing our assessment. Therefore, we have reviewed the information and found that even if it is bad and difficult, the Government cannot change its position because of it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1854	‘The Oslo City Council has proposed to place elderly care in three cities for tenders as part of a comprehensive plan for the privatisation of the capital’s care for the elderly. Furthermore, the City Council wishes to delegate far-reaching privatisation powers in this and other areas to underlying establishments and urban areas. How far does the Council of State think municipalities can go in the health and care sector?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1866	Postponement of care services raises more questions. Even if private operations are well known through e.g. The operation of old and sick homes by private care and non-profit organisations will bring new challenges for municipalities if commercial firms enter the sector. There are currently no legal barriers to the transfer of operational responsibilities for care services to private companies in municipal health or social services laws. In the Law on Municipalities and Municipalities § 12 nr. 3 it's called: «The Administrative Board of the Communities determines the tasks of the local authority committees. Municipal councils may be given decision-making powers in all cases relating to the local council where there is no other rule of law.’.» I also refer to Section 23 of the Local Government Act, which applies to the further delegation of powers: ‘Local and county elected body may authorise the Administrative Manager to take decisions on individual or non-principal matters unless otherwise decided by the Municipal Council or County Council.’ This will apply to the local government of Oslo. The interpretation of what is of ‘prince importance’ in the context of the competitive outsourcing of care services is a matter for the City Council. However, let me underline: Municipalities are not allowed to postpon administrative tasks and the practice of images. Municipalities shall take care of: provision of services under the law and local decisions design and control of the services under the law, policy decisions and detailed contracts with the operator responsible for financing the services; The care sector has little tradition of detailing its own supply and quality requirements. If the municipality chooses to outsource this sector, it is necessary to put in place a thorough effort to clarify the scope of the services it wishes to be provided and the quality of the services provided. Among other things, the following factors need to be considered: At any time, the municipality must develop and maintain competence in the areas of economics, law, negotiation and, of course, care and care. The municipality must be in charge of the contract and be able to handle conversion and, where appropriate, closure of municipal measures as employers. The municipality must also be offered and have the capacity to deal with any acute problems in the private service provision. I want municipalities to actively discuss alternatives to privatisation/competition postponement. In the Adult Declaration, we have focused on modernising and renewing the public sector. The major effort in the care sector in the context of the action plan on care for the elderly will provide a good basis for a public service provision in due course. The services in this area are of a personal nature. It makes them particularly vulnerable. In the context of the action plan for the care of the elderly, there is now a rise across the whole country in this sector. Buildings and personnel are focussed. The quality of the services needs to be considered. The Government intends to provide a more detailed assessment of the competitive outsourcing of care services in the Community economicproposition for the year 2000. The proposal will be submitted in May. In addition, to contribute to the necessary border crossing, I would also like to say that the Storting should be able to discuss the basic principle, the basis for values and the quality of care services.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1922	I would like to thank you for your answer, but I would like to stress that the scale of the outsourcing in Oslo is very large. There is elderly care per year. today for 157 million. SEK and 470 annual works put up for tender, with the blessing of the Left Party and the Christian Party. This is not just about future establishments, but about establishments already in operation, and the City Council has defined this as the first step towards putting the whole of Oslo's care of the elderly on the market. Such a project will have an economic framework of NOK 3 billion. This creates great uncertainty. I want to ask the Council of State if she will give Thorbjørn Jagland justice in his warning that a coalition of the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left would be going into partnership with the Right and the Advance Party in their privatisation efforts. [[President clubs]] And I'll ask for...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1929	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1932	When the issue is so directly related to the views of the Labour Party's parliamentary leader, I feel the need to say that I am surprised that the previous government did not draw any more borders in relation to the postponement of competition. At the balance point between municipal self-government and state policies, there is a need for clearer boundaries than was foreseen from the previous government. A work on this field is started in the Department. And as I said, this is going to be possible to come back to both the treatment of the community economic proposition and also in a debate that I want to organise and that relates to the content and quality of the services.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1943	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘In recent years, the development of technology-assisted care in nursing homes and nursing homes has been under way. The test has shown that the use of technologies in combination with personal care can prevent accidents and contribute to the warning of falls and the like. Technology can be particularly useful in the care of heavy population groups with memory and disorientation problems. Will the Council of State carry out a practical and ethical assessment of the technology for use in the care service?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1952	There are today many technical aids on the market. Extensive development work is taking place in this area and there is every reason to believe that the use of different technical devices will increase in time. The spectral of a technical tool is large, from a tool that the user triggers himself, such as: safety alarms, to comprehensive monitoring systems. Technical solutions and new technologies can allow disabled persons and older people to live a safer and more independent life by compensating for reduced functions, enabling communication, preventing accidents and alerting when the user needs help. At the same time, such equipment may represent extensive privacy interventions. This raises important data protection issues. Particular ethical and legal issues relate to the use of technical devices in the provision of services to people who cannot give a valid consent to use, such as: age units. There is also a danger that technological solutions may be a substitute for other necessary or undesirable help. Technology can never replace human contact and care. The use of technical alarm and warning systems was assessed and regulated in the context of the Social Services Act Chapter 6A ‘Justices and limitation and control of the use of coercion and power, etc. to individuals with mental retardation». In the circular of the law, it is done in detail for the guidelines that apply to it. We are facing major challenges in caring for the elderly and the disabled for years to come. Modern technology challenges both the framework and the content of care. We need to be open to evaluate technological solutions that can give users a better and safer everyday life. At the same time, it is important to be clear about the ethical dilemmas that will be associated with the extensive use of such devices. The Ministry is currently assessing what measures, under these regulatory changes, can ensure the legal security of age dentures. An assessment of the use of technical devices will be an important part of this work. In addition, it is important that we raise a debate on the content of care services. And as I said in the previous question, I'm going to say that the Storting will be able to discuss the basic principle, the basis of value and the quality of care services.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1967	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The group of caregivers, which represents some of the main challenges for care services today, is people with disorientation and memory problems. And for those affected by this, the relatives, the employees and not least the themselves, this is a situation that can be very difficult to deal with in everyday life. Quite often, we hear that people with such problems get away from homes or homes and they have to perform search operations. Unfortunately, there have also been cases of tragic outcome of such disappearances. I also see clearly the ethical dilemma that the council here mentions, but I still think it is necessary to take this discussion, because I see that not least employees in institutions, where manning is often limited, are put in an impossible situation. I look forward to having this discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1978	The representative Bendiks H. Arnesen pointed to both important examples that it is well worth taking forward, and the many dilemmas that they face in this sector today. I'm pleased with the commitment he's shown here by addressing this question, and then I'm going to make sure that we get the problem areas within this field closer to the depth and discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1986	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘In Norway, helicopter bases are available both for the rescue service and for the air ambulance service. The two services are organisationally separated by the fact that the rescue service is subject to the Ministry of Justice while the air ambulance service is subject to the Ministry of Social and Health. In a rescue mission at Dombås, this could mean that the ambulance helicopter is standing on the ground while a terrestrially more unsuitable Sea King is flown in from the West. Does the Council of State see weaknesses in today's organisation?»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e1995	The rescue service is defined as the public-organised activities carried out in the context of immediate efforts to rescue people from death or injury as a result of acute accident or hazard situations and which are not carried out by specifically established bodies or by specific measures. The Ministry of Justice is responsible for the administrative coordination of the rescue services. The Main Rescue Centre and the Local Rescue Centres are responsible for the operational coordination of operations. The main rescue centre may request rescue air ambulances in accordance with the rules of application for air ambulances. This is done by asking the main rescue centre to use air ambulance helicopters in connection with, for example, local rescue centres, police districts. search for missing person. In such cases, aircraft will be subject to the rescue centre coordinating the action. The rescue centre pays the air ambulance operator for such missions. In 1995, 61 such rescue operations were registered. The real figure is likely to be much larger, as a rescue mission is often redefined as an air ambulance mission if a medical emergency is found. The rescue helicopters are initially intended to perform rescue operations. One of the objectives of ambulance helicopters is to be a resource that can be deployed in rescue operations. It is not that they should act as rescue helicopters but that they should be capable of being used as the emergency medical resource they actually represent. The development of ambulance helicopters in the direction of rescue helicopters will include, inter alia: require major helicopters and the fitting of a lift. This is not only a technical, equipment-related issue, but it will also make significantly increased training and rescue requirements. Major helicopters may result in loss of functionality in case of increased landing site requirements. The Air Ambulance Committee, which has recently investigated the air ambulance service in Norway, considers that the benefits of such a development are disproportionate to costs and will therefore not support such developments.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2008	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I fully agree that where the situation leads to increased and inappropriate resource use, coordination would be inappropriate. I became aware of the problem during a visit to Dombås, where a helicopter from the rescue service was flown in, the middle country and refurbished next to the helicopter standing on Dombås, and then flew into an area in the immediate vicinity of Dombås and made a search, while the helicopter stationed on Dombås was not used for other purposes. You get a completely inappropriate resource use just by not using the closest located helicopter. They also described it equipmentically that this would not have been a problem at all. The search could have been interrupted, and the helicopter could have been used for ambulance missions without delay. Clearly, there are two parallel cultures in which there is little coordination and cooperation in order to improve resource use. Does the Minister of Health see that issue, and does he intend to go into it more closely and assess better coordination?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2017	I have explained how the division of responsibilities and also the coordination responsibility is defined in the arrangements we have for the rescue and air ambulance services, respectively. Of course, I cannot rule out examples of poor coordination in practice, although the intentions and guidelines should be the best. My answer to Mr Ballo's supplementary question is that we now have two public investigations to deal with. It is NOU 1998:8 Air ambulance service in Norway, which has just been consulted, and NOU 1997:3 About the rescue helicopter service, which is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice. It will provide an opportunity to discuss the issues raised by the representative, Mr Ballo. When I did not go further in my answer than I did, it was just out of respect for the process that we have ahead of us associated with these investigations, which I expect will be submitted to the Storting in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2027	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: «At the Innst of the Social Committee. S. No 231 to St.meld. [[1995-96]] [[1995-96]] No 16 Will the Council of State ensure that the offer is nationwide?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2036	In the Question Time on 11 February last year, I answered questions about the same content as the question asked by the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo. In my reply at the time, I explained the position of the abortion pill and what opportunities Norwegian women have to use it. The answer I gave at the time is valid today as well. The abortion pill is not in the ordinary course of trade. Nevertheless, in practice, the pill can be said to be available throughout the country. A condition for the use of the pill rather than surgery is that the section supervisor, if any, at the hospital in question applies to the State Medicines Control Authority for a so-called exemption. It is a professional assessment on the basis of which the application is made. Normally, applications for an authorisation waiver are decided within two weeks. Recruitment doctors have a particular responsibility to ensure that medicinal products granted under an exemption satisfy the quality, safety and efficacy requirements normally imposed on medicinal products. The granting of an authorisation waiver allows the pill to be used for a specified period of time. It will then be up to the individual hospital doctor to assess whether the use of the medicinal product in question is the type of treatment with which the individual patient will be best served. Most of the country's hospitals have so far not used the pill. Among the hospitals using the pill, the extent of use varies greatly. This may be related to the fact that the manufacturer has had difficulties in meeting demand in 1998 and that hospitals have therefore not been able to use the pill to the intended extent. I have been informed that the delivery situation is likely to improve in 1999. A slight extent of the use of the pill may also be related to the fact that abortions from medication are a new method in Norway and thus do not appear to be a nearby alternative to surgical intervention. It is only during the last year that the pill has been tested in Norwegian hospitals. Haukeland hospital in Bergen was first out. They received their first pills in April 1998 and now believe that the pill can go in as part of their medical offer. Section 3 of the Abortion Act states that interventions carried out before the 12th week of pregnancy can only be carried out in hospitals or other health institutions approved by the county doctor. The law does not distinguish between surgical intervention and drug induced abortion. I consider the management's handling of this matter to be in line with the Storting's handling of these issues, cf. Inner. S. No 197 for 1988-89 and Innst. S. No 231 for 1995-96. Hospitals must make a professional assessment of whether to use the abortion pill as an alternative to surgery. Hospitals need to assess for themselves whether they are ready to put the pill into service and whether they should apply for an exemption.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2051	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I realized that the Council of State believes that the situation today is similar to that of a year ago and that therefore no other answer should be given. But compared to a year ago, there is a difference in living conditions, because experience of using the abortion pill as an alternative to surgery has just been gained. As far as I'm aware, there are six countries in the world – and there will be new countries – where you've tried this pill, and it's becoming a lot of experience. Professionals describe it this way, for example Ole-Erik Iversen, who is a professor and specialist at Haukeland Hospital, that the treatment of drugs is safer and more gentle and easier for the woman. It is also described that of the women who have chosen the method, 85 pst. it is recommended. This means that you face a type of treatment that gives less complications is less risky and is preferable. Does the Council of State not consider it appropriate, even from the decision of the Storting, that there should be a better offer than what is today?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2060	I believe that it is a follow-up to Storting's treatment that the administration actually grants the waivers of approval requested when the criteria for such waivers are available. To the extent that the delivery situation of these drugs has been a limiting factor, I have been informed that it is likely to improve in 1999. However, it must also be the case here that it is the responsibility of a doctor who, on the basis of the available treatment options in the hospital in question, on the basis of the criteria of safety and in consultation with the patient, assesses the appropriate treatment method. I assume that with the experiences you gradually gain, more hospitals will use this pill. I agree with Mr Ballo that to the extent that this is a more gentle and better method, this can happen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2072	This question, from the representative of Karita Bekkemelm Orheim to the Minister for Health, will be raised by the representative of Asmund Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2075	On the basis to which the President referred, I would like to ask the following questions to Minister of Health Dagfinn Højbräten: ‘In the daily newspaper of 24 January 1999, Norwegian doctors are asked to give the so-called happy pill to children/young people. Does the Council of State believe that such medication for minors is appropriate, it is a failure to state that minors are put on chemically produced antidepressants for a shorter or longer period of time, and what will the Council of State do to ensure that these children/youth receive sound psychological treatment?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2084	15-20 pst. all children suffer from mild or severe mental illness during their childhood. About 5 pst. have severe psychosis, severe depression and compulsive disorders, and need help from the second line service. For children and adolescents with depressive symptoms, it is important that an investigation is conducted and diagnosed as a basis for good treatment and follow-up, both to the child and to the family. Important interventions can be put into the community, under the direction of school and PP services, follow-up from health centre, psychologist and doctor, etc. Depressive conditions in children and adolescents, however, are very serious, and treatment with medicinal products may be a necessary part of the healthcare provision provided, among others. to prevent the development of suicidal thoughts and eating disorders. In the autumn of 1997, the State Pharmacovigilance Authority carried out a specific evaluation of the medical treatment of paediatric psychiatric conditions. The report concludes that for seriously ill children and young people, the use of antidepressants is appropriate if adequate investigation and diagnosis have been carried out. It should be stressed that when selecting medical treatment, this should always be given in conjunction with other treatments. This material has been sent for guidance to all doctors and pharmacists. When treating depression in children and adolescents, a medicinal product that is very commonly referred to as the ‘lucky pill’ is recommended as a first choice. This drug appears to have minimal side effects, but it must be emphasised that the evidence of safety and efficacy of medicinal products in children and young people is insufficient. There are very few drugs that have been evaluated in Norway for use by children and young people. We have no chance today to say anything about how this or other medicines are actually used in the population. This is not satisfactory. In St. prp. No 1 for this year, the Government has mentioned this and announced that an effort will be made to gradually build up an information system for this purpose. When the representative asks what the Council of State will do to ensure that these children and young people receive sound psychological treatment, I refer to the escalation plan for mental health, to which the Stortinget has joined. This includes enhanced focus on actions both in the 1st and 2nd line services. It is a prerequisite for the earmarked grants to municipalities that comprehensive planning is carried out which also includes actions for children and young people, including the strengthening of health centres, school health services, support contact services and cultural and leisure services — to mention something. 2. Line service shall be strengthened through the development of clinics and outpatient clinics. Finally, let me stress that, in my opinion, there is a clear distinction between using antidepressants for children and young people with severe depression and using pills to solve what I would call ‘the problems of daily life’. In one situation there is a need for treatment, and in the other there may be slipping transitions to abuse. Drug use in Norway is high. I distance myself from any general call for increased use of happy pills and corresponding medications. My position is that the main tool in the fight against uncritical use or abuse is to strengthen local environments, family, school and leisure activities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2099	I thank you for your answer. However, in addition to what the Minister for Health had to say, I have to ask myself the question of doctors for easy rates of medical treatment, perhaps in the absence of sufficient professional understanding. I believe that there are opportunities for better cooperation than what we have today, between doctors and PP services, which often have a very high level of competence in this area. I would like to ask the Minister of Health, in the light of what was mentioned in Dagbladet on 24 January, whether we have legislation in Norway to prevent the conditions described by the United States, where doctors could freely prescribe these drugs to children.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2106	It is difficult to deny that, in some cases, doctors may too easily resort to drug treatment in general. It is also often a patient’s expectation that this will happen. What Kristoffersen's representative points out, better cooperation between the doctor and the PP service, I consider to be an important follow-up point in relation to the psychiatry effort in the case of children and young people in particular. On the question of whether we have a code that prevents American states, I would say that at least we have a high degree of professional awareness about these issues in the professional environments, which are shown, among other things. during the review carried out by the State Medicines Control Authority. I think it is important to keep a high level of awareness here and also to consider measures if we are to have evidence of an unfortunate development.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2118	I would like to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘According to an article in the Evening Post on 30 January 1999, Norway may be forced by the EEA Agreement to add iron to cereal flakes, despite the fact that this is contrary to Norwegian nutrition policy and tradition. ESA has now imposed the burden of proof on the Norwegian side. What will the Council of State do to prevent Norwegian consumers from being forced to eat food with additives that nutritionists do not recommend?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2127	The position of the Norwegian authorities on enrichment is consistent with the principles set out in the Codex Alimentarius International Standard for the addition of essential nutrients to foods. Such guidelines are intended to establish uniform premises for enrichment and are based on the fact that enrichment should only be permitted if there is evidence of a need for population addition. Furthermore, it has to be demonstrated that the food you are looking for is suitable for reaching the population groups concerned. Because of different dietary habits, both questions about documentation of needs and evidence that the food in question is suitable to meet the needs will vary from country to country. In Norway, the SNT — State Food Authority — authorises enrichment, based on the recommendation of the Food Council of the State. The SNT is not authorised to grant a letter of agreement in the case of enrichment. If one product is allowed the range, one similar product cannot be rejected unless there is a factual justification to allow enrichment of one type of product, but refuses enrichment of another. This means that an authorisation for the enrichment of cereal flakes will mean that you will not be able to refuse the enrichment of other types of breakfast cereals either. The case is therefore of a principle nature. The outcome of a freer enrichment practice could lead to a situation with an unknown number of enriched products on the market, where it is unlikely that a single product alone would pose a health risk. However, overall these could exceed the recommended intake of vitamins and minerals in the population. Health concerns related to free enrichment include: the risk of overdosage of some nutrients added to several foods and that an unnaturally high intake of some vitamins and minerals could interfere with the absorption of other necessary substances by the body. Because health risks cannot be excluded, the precautionary principle must weigh heavily on such cases. Furthermore, the long-term effects of enrichment are not known. Norwegian professional authorities recommend that today’s enrichment policy be maintained and that the addition of vitamins and minerals be authorised only when there is a documented need for health reasons. In the case of cereal flakes in particular, the Norwegian authorities have been asked to demonstrate that the enriched cereal flakes alone could represent a health risk to the Norwegian population. Demonstration of potential health damage requires risk calculations for each nutrient where there is a risk of overdose. It is our position that evidence of health damage should in any case be followed up by reasoning on the principles on which the enrichment policy in Norway is based per year. Today, there must be a real need in the population to authorise the enrichment of a given nutrient. Norway has less than two months to prepare a response to ESA. This period will be used by the Ministry to carry out a thorough review of Norwegian enrichment practices, and then to be able to take a final position.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2144	I thank the Council of State for your answer. The starting point for Kelloggs is that they're making less money if they have to develop a product specifically for Norway, and that's the basis for us to change our policy in this area. I interpret the Council of State so that he and the Department will carefully consider accepting this from a precedent, and would like the Council of State to confirm this. There's simply something of the main point in SV's involvement in this matter. This is a matter of principle. If you accept this, you must also consider accepting similar things in the future. I just want to ask the Council of State to deepen its answer at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2151	I can confirm that the Department is working further to substantiate the position we have taken in the specific case. The type of precedent for which there is reason to fear is a consequence of the Norwegian legislation which requires authorisation for enrichment of a particular product, it is necessary to allow the enrichment of other similar products in the same product group. This will mean that we are actually facing a question of a rather significant conversion of Norwegian nutrition policy in terms of enrichment. That's why the question is essentially.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2159	I have a question for our Minister of Health: ‘Leger is not assumed to have the opportunity to charge the patient for a telephone prescription when he picks it up himself without prior consultation at the medical office, but they may require reimbursement from the social security office for the service. In Sarpsborg, all municipal doctors and general practitioners with an operating contract from NOK 20 to NOK 35 are paid for this service. Does the State Council consider that doctors are allowed to charge the patient for a prescription without consultation?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2168	The fee or standard medical fee is the result of negotiations between the State, the Municipal Council of Local Authorities and the Medical Association. The fees shall be binding on doctors with an operating contract and the excesses resulting from the normal tariff shall also apply to permanent paid municipal doctors. It is a joint responsibility of the contracting parties to ensure compliance with the provisions. The scope of the normal tariff is limited to the treatments and other conditions mentioned in the tariff. There are treatments for which no tariffs have been fixed and for which the doctor himself can determine what the patient is to pay. One example may be acupuncture treatment. It is established in the tariff that writing the prescription is covered by the specified consultation fees. On the other hand, whether the doctor has to send the prescription to the patient or to the pharmacist, this is a matter that is not regulated by the standard tariff. It appears to be a relatively common practice for the doctor to charge the patient with a dispatch fee in such cases. Either the patient has had a regular consultation at the doctor’s office or a so-called simple contact at the doctor’s office or per. telephone, therefore, is the filling in of any prescription covered by the tariffs that the doctor can collect from the patient or the public interest. As little as the doctor has reason to charge an additional fee to hand over the prescription to the patient during a consultation, there is no basis for charging the patient after a telephone consultation to pick up the completed prescription at the doctor's office. I will consider measures that can contribute to better knowledge of this. If necessary, a clarification of this should be included in the physician’s taxi record.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2177	I don't know if I understood the council correctly, but my question went on phone calls where the patient himself or the family picked up the prescription from the doctor's office, and that it was not then possible to charge the patient. I would quote a deputy director of the Department of Health, Atle Grøhn, who says to Sarpsborg Arbeiderblad: ‘A telephone conversation with the doctor that results in a prescription, and where the prescription is somehow handed over to the patient or pharmacist, does not initially cost the patient anything. However, the doctor may be able to charge the postage costs or countercrits that the doctor uses to send or fax the prescription to you or the pharmacist.’ Based on his opinion, this seems to be clear. Does the Council of State agree with Mr Green on this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2189	The short answer is yes. That's also shown by the first answer I gave, that's how it works. I would like to assess, as I said, a clarification of this message to the actors for whom it is important.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2197	I will ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘In recent years we have been dependent in Norway on energy imports from abroad. It has been decided to add three new cables to the continent to be operational from 2001 onwards and 2004 onwards. Due to the EU's electricity directive, concerns have been expressed about the realisation of these cable connections by several teams. What is the Council of State's assessment of this, and what is done to ensure that in the future we do not have problems with electricity supply in extreme weather conditions with strong cold and low rainfall?'
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2206	The EU Internal Electricity Market Directive was adopted by the EU in December 1996. Since the Directive is related to the internal market, it is also relevant to the EEA. An EEA Committee decision on the Directive is expected in spring 1999. The Directive requires each country to gradually open the market over a six-year period up to 2003. From the Norwegian side, the Directive has been carefully assessed against the framework we have established for the electricity market in Norway. This also applies to the way in which the authorities have organised international trade, including: through the power exchanges agreements for maritime cables negotiated between commercial operators. From the Norwegian side, in our discussions with the EU Commission on the Electricity Directive, attention is paid to the fact that the power exchange agreements are based on long-term agreements facilitating trade, while taking into account general environmental and energy security considerations. It has emerged through our contacts with the European Commission that they share our view that the Electricity Directive does not affect the validity of existing and concluded agreements. Therefore, the power exchange agreements are considered robust in relation to the EU Electricity Directive and should not prevent the implementation of the agreements. The Norwegian parties assume that the agreements are in conformity with the Electricity Directive since the cables impose significant obligations on companies in the major investments to be made. In the past, we have noted to Stortinget, through the information that has been transmitted, that the Norwegian and Norwegian Swedish power market has moved further towards market opening than is the minimum requirement of the EU directive. From the Norwegian side, therefore, it is considered not to be necessary to adapt the Norwegian system by incorporating the Directive into the EEA Agreement. With regard to issues relating to the future power balance in an extreme weather situation, whether cold or low rainfall etc., I would like to refer to the work currently being done on a global communication on energy policy. The Storting Communication is a natural follow-up to the main themes of the Energy Committee, which delivered its report on the future power balance last summer. I want to come back with an overall assessment of both the security of supply issue and the opportunities we have to strengthen the balance of power, in the key communication on energy policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2217	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. What makes the light not going in Norway is that we have opportunities to import. What we're importing is coal power. We have based the power supply in Norway on new cable connections, and the uncertainty created around these new cables should certainly give cause for concern. The impact of market liberalisation on the continent is uncertain. But the thing is, there's created doubts about how those who are going to deliver electricity from the continent will deal with this agreement. Is it guaranteed that Norway will be able to import as much as we need through the agreements concluded?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2226	As far as possible, a Norwegian national has tried to clarify that issue in discussions with the EU and the European Commission. We believe that there is reason to consider that the power-exchange agreements are robust in relation to the current directive and that the Directive should not prevent the long-term agreements from being implemented. Moreover, for many years we have had a power exchange between Norway and Denmark, and today we have a Nordic market for the exchange of power. It's gone a little bit both ways. Exports of force from Norway have been in the past three years and imports have been in force to Norway. I believe that the situation in Norway over the last three years has raised the issue of security of supply. I don't think that in the years to come you can rely on having security of supply through overcapacity in the Norwegian system, but that you have to have a system that can ensure dry years or periods of extreme cold periods.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2236	I'll ask another question to the Minister of Oil and Energy: ‘Norway aims to be self-sufficient in electricity. In the last three years, we've been dependent on imports. Last year we imported as much as 3.6 TWh current from the continent. Consumption is growing year by year, while electricity generation is not increasing accordingly. What does the Government do to achieve the objective of self-sufficiency?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2245	It is the Government’s objective that both can strengthen the efforts to develop new renewable energy sources, while also having to do a job to reduce electricity consumption in Norway. It's a work that's already in progress. During the time of the government’s seat, government budget appropriations have increased to 248 million. kr in the case of bets in these areas. That's an increase of 75 million. kr only within one and a half years. In addition, the framework conditions for new renewable energy sources have been facilitated. This has been done, among others: by way of an exemption from the investment levy of 7 pst. for wind, bioenergy, heat pumps, solar, mini and micro power plants and district heating systems. For wind power, a production aid equal to half the electricity charge has also been granted. All these measures may help to improve the energy and power balance. New renewable energy sources can strengthen their competitiveness, while also helping to limit the growth of electricity consumption. In addition, the government will present a major communication on energy policy during the spring. In that big message, I will come back with an overall assessment of the possibilities we have for strengthening the power balance.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2252	What is the matter is that this problem is quite acute. A few weeks ago, there were guidelines to the power plants that they would switch from electric boilers to oil boilers where possible, so that the system would not break down. When the Council of State comes to this conclusion, new renewable energy sources, such as: wind power and bioenergy are exempt from investment taxes, etc., are the things that can work in the long term and are relatively marginal. There's nothing that will solve this problem, which is quite acute. The Council of State said in its previous reply that we could not have overcapacity in the Norwegian system. Does this mean that the Council of State then goes beyond the objective of self-sufficiency in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2261	Let me first underline in the context of the representative Hegna mentions what has happened earlier this winter, that it is a natural part of the system responsibility that Statnett has, that is. the responsibility they have to ensure adequate electricity supplies at all times. That means that on extremely cold days, which we've had a couple of this winter, Statnett has a responsibility to take out the reserves that one can take out into the market, to ensure that everyone gets the flow they're going to have. With regard to energy policy and supply on the other side of production, we have lived in Norway in a relatively favourable situation in the sense that we have had a system of so much hydropower that it has been oversized. We don't need to discuss at any time the scarcity days you may have during a cold winter. Now we need to prepare for an increased level of discussion on security of supply. That's what I think is important. It's for us to cover the days and periods of the year when it's most important. But I think we should do it through a sensible debate on security of supply and not in a debate on what energy policy course you should have.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2271	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Development and Human Rights: ‘In the media there is information about widespread violence and harassment against religious minorities in India. Human rights organizations report religiously motivated attacks on Christians. How does the Council of State view such violations of human rights, and what can be done to ensure that the Indian authorities take religious freedom seriously?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2280	The government has given high priority to the work of freedom of worship and religion internationally, and the Government is concerned about the violence against religious minorities in a number of Asian countries. There have been deep-seated tragic events that show that minorities are subjected to abuse and suffer from a lack of freedom of belief and religion. In India, a significant increase in intolerance and violence towards minorities in general and Christians in particular has been recorded in the last year. Indian authorities have distanced themselves from recent events. They indicate that India is a legal state with constitutional freedom of religion and that abuses against minorities are being investigated as criminal acts. Our Embassy in New Delhi has expressed our concern to the Indian authorities about acts of violence against minorities in India and underlined the importance of protecting minorities and the need for criminal prosecution of those behind the crimes. The embassy has also had a meeting with the National Council of Churches in India. The Council of Churches stresses that the abuses in the first place should be regarded as a violation of the Indian Constitution and as a violation of human rights. The embassy has also contacted Norwegian millionaires in India. None of those who have been contacted are threatened, but are encouraged to report to the embassy and the local police if the situation so requires. Of course, the government will follow closely the further developments in the abuse and in the lack of protection of different religious minorities in the Asian countries. Let me stress that all minorities, not just Christians, are entitled to protection and protection. The government gives high priority to the work of freedom of worship and religion, inter alia: in the UN Commission on Human Rights, where Norway is now a member. I can add that we have also given the Special Rapporteur on these issues in the UN Commission on Human Rights extra funds. In the OSCE, too, and by supporting and actively participating in the International Conference on Freedom of Faith and Religion, we have given priority to freedom of faith and religion. This conference was held in Oslo in August 1998, as is well known, and it will also be followed up by this conference in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2302	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is good to hear that the Norwegian authorities have addressed this issue and will continue to monitor developments. I am aware that the Indian authorities have distanced themselves from the incident in Orissa on 23 January, which was also announced in Norwegian media, where an Australian evangelist and his two sons were burned alive in a car fire. There were also local people who wanted to help, but they were threatened and turned back by militant Hindus from the Bajrang Dal organization. Of course, when foreigners are killed, it is also focused abroad, so I understand that Indian authorities would like to avoid this. But before this episode, there was clearly an escalation of violence against Christian Indians – preachers have been beaten senseless and nuns raped, and there has been fury of schools and chapels and cemeteries. I would like to ask the Council of State, which, in its statement on humanitarian aid, pointed out that violent conflicts are now occurring more often within nations, and that this is ethnically and culturally explained: does she see that this is happening now also in India?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2313	I don't think that these problems in India have an extent that would suggest that there could be a major conflict between ethnic groups and religious minorities moving towards acts of war, which might have been the main concern of the humanitarian statement, but there is no reason to suggest that the situation is disturbing. We expect, and have expressed this very clearly to the Indian authorities, that they must protect their minorities and punish those responsible for violations of Indian law. At the same time, we are not aware that today's Indian government has introduced a new policy in this area or has proposed any change in what has been the Indian policy of being a legal state for the past 50 years. Therefore, we will follow the situation very closely, and react with other countries if it turns out to be a change in the policies of the Indian Government. They must now take seriously the protection of religious minorities, whatever religious communities they may belong to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2323	This question, from the representative of Ottar Kaldhol to the Minister for the Environment, will be raised by the representative of Laila Kaland. The regulatory time is just up. The President will propose that the meeting continue until the current map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2328	I will ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘From several stocks it is claimed that close to river farms may be one of the causes of dramatic reductions in wild breeds and a partial risk of extinction. Has the Ministry of the Environment, in cooperation with the Ministry of Fisheries and the Ministry of Agriculture, assessed this issue, and what concrete action will the Council of State take to save the wild species?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2337	The problem raised by the representative, Mr Kaland, has been very remarkable for several years. The departments involved — the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Fisheries and the Ministry of Agriculture — have both assessed and taken action to reduce the risk of damage to wild salmon populations. I would like to include: include the introduction of protection zones, which include the delimitation of farming near the main salmon watercourse, the rules for the establishment and operation of farms and the general effort to reduce the problem of nutrition. I want to make it clear that there are a number of different reasons for the dramatic decline in wild salmon populations. The reversal is mainly caused by acidification, watercourse interventions, the spread of the salmon parasite Gyrodactylus salaris and to some extent overfishing. Recent research also suggests that climatic changes in the marine environment have contributed to the decline in populations. Spaced farmed salmon in broodstocks and consequently disease pressures from farms are considered relatively new threats. It is important to distinguish between escapes and the incorporation of farmed fish and the spread of diseases and parasites when dealing with the effects of farming. We do not have a clear scientific hold to claim that the escape and incorporation of farmed fish is a direct cause of the decline in salmon populations. However, ecological and genetic impacts due to escaped farmed fish are considered to have a negative impact on populations of wild species, and this is a cause of concern. Organicly, this effect can be achieved through competition for resources in the river, while genetic impact can alter the specific characteristics that are important for the permanent adaptation of the river to the river itself. Today, however, there are indications that high incidences of salmonidosis may be a contributing cause of population decline. It also appeared to be a link between the concentration of rearing plants and the presence of salmonids. The authorities and industry have jointly developed a national action plan against salmon fever and, in addition, the industry itself has taken the initiative to develop a national action plan on escape. It is quite clear that both of these facts must be given particular attention in the further work to secure the wild salmon populations. Finally, I would like to point out that the relationship between the aquaculture industry and wild salmon populations is one of the themes on which the government-emerging wildax selection has been asked to look at in particular. The selection setting will take place in the first half of March, and we will consider additional actions in the light of the selection recommendations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2350	It's a serious situation we have in relation to the wild axis. Founders I've been talking to, sports fishermen and tourist industries think it's urgent to take concrete action to save this salmon. There are several reasons, as pointed out by the Council of State, for the decline. It is enough to consider hard taxation, diseases – Gyrodactylus solaris, which frame several rivers – and salmon leaves, which are particularly affected by the melt, to mention other things. The Minister for the Environment is talking about having a salmon selection. We know today that the management responsibility lies with three departments – the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Fisheries. I would like to ask the Council of State that the management and responsibility for salmon be placed under one department, the Ministry of the Environment – under the Environment Directorate. This will increase the coordination of concrete actions so that we can save the wild species. Likewise, I would ask that one become less restrictive to the restocking work that the landowners have done in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2357	Among the things I've had the pleasure of being in the job I've got now is visiting salmon elves and the business that runs around them, especially in Buskerud. I have also learned that there are two things that are required to become a good salmon fisherman: orange fly and patience, patience, patience – and I tend to say that I don't have any of the parts. But I fully agree with the representative that there is a very serious situation, and I think there are very complex reasons for that. I also fully agree that there is an urgent need for concrete action, and that is why I have so much hope for the investigation that I will now be handed over from the salmon committee. This sample has now been in operation for several years and is broadly composed, from both the fisheries side, from the open air side and not least from the farming side. I hope and believe that they come up with proposals that are agreed and that we can use. I do not want to conclude by whether or not the administration should be brought together, until I have seen the investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2367	«The law on motorised driving in the outfield has, in § 5, the prohibition on recreational loops with the exception of Finnmark and Nord-Troms. The number of snowmobiles is increasing dramatically, and from an environmental point of view, one has now reached a point where everyone would benefit from removing such a ban on recreational loops. Is the State Council willing to assess and open up recreational loops under strict control of the Ministry of the Environment?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2374	I am aware that the total number of snowmobiles from 1997 to 1998 increased by approx. 2 000, to approx. 44 000, but in my view this increase can be difficult to describe as dramatic. Nor can I see that an increase in the number of snowmobiles would be an argument for the lifting of the ban on recreational loops based on environmental considerations. I have previously stated that it is desirable to review today's rules on motor travel in the outfield with a view to increasing the accountability of the municipalities. By letter of 2 November 1998 to the Ministry of the Environment, the Directorate for Nature Management carried out such a review. The letter signals the need for a number of changes to current rules. The Directorate proposes that the management of the rules on motor travel in outland areas be more closely linked to the planning of municipalities according to the Planning and Building Act. In the media, a proposal for the decoration of the driving ban on unbroken roads has become the most focused. The Directorate has made several clarifications and stressed that all proposed amendments need to be seen together and in the light of the desire for a stronger link between the administration by municipalities of the rules on motor traffic and the processes of the Planning and Building Act. The Directorate does not propose a general opening for the use of snowmobiles on unbroken roads. Both the Ministry and the Directorate have received a number of enquiries from municipalities and others that point out that the current snowmobile management system in general is functioning well and strongly warns against the liberalisation of current rules. Several indicate that a general opening for the use of snowmobiles on unbroken roads would destroy the basis for rental, which is, of course, a regional economic activity. With regard to the prohibition of recreational loops for snowmobiles, it has never been the intention of the directorate to propose a general suspension of this. Nor do I intend to propose a general lifting of this ban for my own part. The Ministry has not yet taken a decision on how to follow up the various amendments proposed by the Directorate. It could be relevant that amendments are being tested in some selected municipalities. Such trials will be carefully evaluated before any changes are made to the country as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2385	I thank you for the answer, which there was something positive in it. We both have the best starting point for the environment. Today, as the Council of State said, it is approx. 44 000 scooters. Of these, 30,000 are in the south. We have to have regulated traffic, we agree on that. One may not allow driving on adequate roads in general, but perhaps on some roads and on ice water as part of an approved recreational loop. It must be better that they run a regulated loop than the alternative, which is to run anywhere, or on public roads, where snowmobiles in my opinion have nothing to do. Will the State Council review Section 5 of the Motor Traffic Act and provide the municipalities with the opportunity to work on pathways with which all interests have been served?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2394	I have probably a need to initially nuance the claim that everyone is interested in this, and I have, not least from my experiences with meetings on motorized traffic in large parts of District Norway, found that, among other things, it is. is a lot of gender-specific interest in this issue. But it doesn't prevent it from being important to look at it. As I said, one of the proposals of the Directorate for Nature Management is a stronger link between the processes of the Planning and Building Act and the administration of the rules on motor traffic by municipalities. I think that would make sense, and I will consider that. This will include, inter alia: could mean that municipalities can divide outland areas into two categories: areas of national and regional importance with strict restrictions, and areas of local importance where there may be something more liberal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2408	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘The Directorate of Natural Management has granted the municipality of Stor-Elvdal permission for the killing of two wolves. As is common for the killing of wild game, there are so many restrictions in terms of time, geographical area and economics that there is much to be done to trap the wolves. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the breeding permit becomes effective and that the breeding permit does not constitute a cutting-off of the core area of the eastern Hedmark wolf?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2417	The Directorate for Nature Management has recently granted the municipality of Stor-Elvdal permission for the killing of two wolves. The authorisation shall be valid for a specific area and period. The decision was taken on 25 January this year and can be appealed to the Ministry of the Environment within three weeks. So the time limit for the appeal has not expired. The Directorate has decided that the decision shall not be brought into effect until the appeal period has expired and any appeals have been dealt with. This has been done to ensure that any complainants have a real opportunity to have the assessments of the Board of Appeal reviewed by the Board of Appeal. If the decision is appealed, the Directorate shall decide on the complaints before they are sent to the Ministry for decision. Since the Department is the Board of Appeal, I cannot now comment on the decision of the Board of Directors.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2427	I understand that you can't be a complaint board from Stortinget's pulpit, but my question is not whether to grant a litter permit on two wolves, but how. I would like to inform the Council of State that there is no application for a moat permit for the wolf of the municipality of Stor-Elvdal. They have demanded that the wolf be removed. The cost of wolf and bear hunting in the summer was NOK 10 000 per year. 24 hours. This means that what is earmarked for the Directorate will last for two days. It's great scepticism for manual whaling because it takes an incredibly long time. Just to get the story in the department as well: last time there was a wolf in Great Elvdal, it took three years before the wolf was caught. So my question to the Council of State is, will the Council of State now ensure that this is not hunting, but killing, and facilitating that there will be killing and not a sport out of it?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2434	Let me first say that one of the things we've been occupied with by the Government is to make sure that when it's given a breeding permit, it's going to be real, and the possibility of taking a pest is going to be real. This has also led us to make extensive use of conditional breeding permits for pests in the last season, so that the county could make decisions relatively quickly. And it also happened to a great extent in Hedmark, where people were generally given an average response to an application for a breeding permit within 24 hours. With regard to this specific matter, I am interested in the fact that any cancellation permit should be effective, and among the things I will then consider are also the conditions attached to the cancellation permit.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2444	«Inside. S. No 150 to St.meld. [[1997-98]] [[1996-97]] No 58 What has the Council of State done to comply with the wishes of the Great Government?"
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2451	In the position referred to by the representative, Mr Sanner, a majority of the Committee was in favour of setting up a public body to explore the objectives and instruments of cultural memory policy. During the debate in Stortinget on 5 May 1998, I concluded that such a selection was set up. The wish of the majority for the work of the sample is far-reaching. Prior to the handling by the Storting of the Storing Communication on Environmental Protection Policy for Sustainable Development, the Ministry worked on important development tasks in the field of cultural memory protection. This applies, inter alia, to: changes in cultural memory law and a review of tax law as a tool for cultural memory work. I point out that the majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment stressed that the establishment of a public body should not slow down important ongoing development work. It has therefore been necessary to spend some time clarifying the relationship between ongoing development work and the mandate of the sample. I have been engaged in developing a mandate to ensure that the sample is provided with the necessary framework conditions for further development and renewal of the political and professional framework for the protection and use of cultural memories and environments. I can inform you that the Government will, in accordance with its plan during March, appoint the panel to explore strategies, objectives and instruments for future cultural memory policy. The objective is that the sample submits its suspension in the autumn of 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2462	I think we can quickly agree that private cultural memory protection is of great value, both because there is an infinite number of hours spent on volunteering, and because it takes care of great historical and cultural values that benefit us all. However, I have registered that key actors in cultural memory protection, among others. The head of Norwegian Cultural Heritage and the head of the Association for the Owners of Peaceed Houses have expressed themselves very critically to the Evening Post in terms of cooperation between the private actors and the Department. On the part of Stortinget, it was particularly stressed that one depends on good cooperation. It's been eight months since the Storting said that they wanted such a sample, and it's obviously going to be a year and a half before we see the results of the work. My question is, what does the Council of State intend to do in the meantime? Will it include, among others: some tax initiative to stimulate private owners to take care of, among others. Peaceful House?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2471	As the representative Sanner said, I think there is a great deal of consensus that cultural memory work is very important, and a lot of it happens in private. We know that very many volunteer hours are spent, and large values are taken care of. I have also recorded that there has been criticism, especially through the evening post and perhaps especially from the leader of Norsk Cultural Heritage. Then I need to say from Stortinget's pulpit that he has had two meetings with political leadership in the department, so I don't think we've been so difficult to speak. What is important here is that the work of the sample is to be seen in the future. You do it without preventing the conversion that's going to happen along the way. Among the things the Storting has given particular attention to, is that you should be able to look at tax rules even while this sample is at work. And of course the government will do that and possibly come back with it in traditional budget proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2480	Case No. So 1 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-10.ana.ud1659e2489	There is no record.
