ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-lower.ana.ud584e23	The representative, Torbjørn Andersen, will make a private bill.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-lower.ana.ud584e26	On behalf of Kenneth Svendsen, Thore Aksel Nistad and myself, I would like to propose amendments to the Law of 10 June 1977 No. 82 on motor travel in land and watercourses, so that the use of snowmobiles in special loops is made general, and that the authority granted under this law is transferred from the county to the individual municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-lower.ana.ud584e31	The legislative proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-lower.ana.ud584e43	The President will draw attention to the fact that the rapporteur is a member of the Lamentations Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-lower.ana.ud584e46	It is not true that the rapporteur is a member of the Laging House. Unfortunately, he is not present, so on behalf of the rapporteur, I would like to explain the position of the Committee on Budgets. The approach concerns six distinct aspects of tax law. The first part, as amended, relates to adjustments in tax legislation resulting from the introduction of State corporate tax. I'm not going to spend time polishing against the introduction, as the Progress Party that is known against. All of the Government's proposals for changes to this bulwark are purely technical adaptations necessary as a result of the Storting's decision on the transition to State corporation tax. The technical adaptations proposed are mainly those relating to the discharge of the public tax obligation, the application of the provisions relating to the place of taxation, the place of equivalency, the place of delivery of the declaration and the place where the tax is to be paid. These are natural resource taxes to municipalities, the removal of unnecessary references and the taxation of profits and losses. I would like to recommend on behalf of the Financial Committee all the technical adaptations proposed regarding the transition to State corporate tax. The next column of this setting concerns changes to the provisions of the EQS on professional secrecy. The whole Committee agrees with the clarification contained in the suspension, which in short implies that the recipient of information relating to confidentiality actually has the obligation of professional secrecy concerning the information received even where the recipient of the information has obtained it by virtue of the provisions on disclosure of information by the parties in Sections 3-4 of the Equation Act. The third part of the suspension concerns the tax exemption for SND Invest AS. The members of the Financial Committee of the Progress Party note, for their part, that no justification has been provided for the tax treatment of SND Invest different from that of other similar companies. SND Invest AS is more than anything else a pure investment company that buys and sells shares in small and large enterprises. The company does not have the right purpose to own any enterprise, but typically goes into enterprises that do not actually have a well-functioning market for the translation of shares. However, this is not in itself a sound justification for exemption from tax liability. The Progress Party will argue that the imposition of tax exemptions for SND Invest AS would be to discriminate against the company in relation to any other investment company which may, in principle and in practice, have the same objective as SND Invest AS. As a general rule, it must therefore be considered as a competitive advantage not to pay taxes. However, we recognise that the issue of tax exemptions may have aspects that we have not discussed, and must therefore note that the Government in the proposition has also made no attempt to discuss this issue of exemption. We believe that the issue of tax freedom for a state investment company deserves a serious procedure in Stortinget and will therefore make suggestions that this part of the proposition be returned to the Government for investigation. A minority in the Committee, consisting of the Right Party and the Progressive Party, supports this proposal. The issue of inheritance tax in relation to individual pension contracts was discussed in detail in connection with the Innst. O. No 106 for 1996-97 and an inheritance tax calculation practice has been established in accordance with the suspension. The Financial Committee notes that the present Government proposal is only a codification of current practice, which thus becomes more easily accessible. The alternative method of distribution for the avoidance of double taxation in tax agreements is agreed in the Nordic tax agreement of 23 September 1996 and has effect from 1998. The Government proposes to authorise the Ministry to lay down rules for the practical completion and implementation of the method. The Committee endorses the Government's proposal. Finally, I would recommend the proposed amendments to the Tax Act and the Company Tax Act as a result of new share law and public equity law. The proposals concern only technical adjustments to erase the unintended changes to the Tax Act and the Company Tax Act, which are partly due to incurries and partly due to changes in the tax legislation in the period between the adoption and entry into force of the Shares Act and the General Shares Act.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-lower.ana.ud584e65	Siv Jensen has taken up the proposal she referred to. Several have not asked for the word. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-lower.ana.ud584e75	The odelsting shall vote on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-lower.ana.ud584e81	During the debate, Siv Jensen, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right, put forward the proposal contained in the vote on page 14.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-lower.ana.ud584e116	Before we go to voting on Paragraph 26, the President will vote on the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: «Ot.prp. No Chapter 32 3 is returned to the Government for investigation. [[1998-99]] ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-lower.ana.ud584e140	The President has understood that the People's Party, the Right Party and the Twist Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-lower.ana.ud584e449	It is then votered over the titles of the laws and the laws in their entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-lower.ana.ud584e456	Law decisions will be sent to Lamentation.
