ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e26	It is very positive that there has again been an agreement on an agricultural agreement. The government and agricultural organisations deserve praise for the consensus and for the content. The year’s and last year’s settlement indicates an income trend that may create the optimism needed to ensure the recruitment of agriculture. The settlement is in line with the promise made by Stortinget in 1993 on the development of income and living conditions in line with the rest of the population. Established in 1997, which the Centre Party did not accept, and which has been mentioned today, was not close to fulfilling this promise. After three years when the revenue gap in relation to others had grown by NOK 40000, the agreement gave an addition of NOK 3.5 000, on an annual income of NOK 125 000. Other groups had received double in addition, on average income of NOK 244 900. In that situation, the Central Party proposed to increase the financial framework by 400 million. NOK or NOK 5000 per year. annual work. It is the task of Stortingen to ensure that the guidelines laid down by Stortingen, among others. in the agricultural policy, is followed by the Government. This is important not just in terms of rehabilitating closed aerodromes. The point Workers' Party, Right and Advance Party will withdraw from this year's agreement is a regulation aimed at maintaining the structure of the milk production requested by Stortinget, and the matter is quite different. Norwegian farmers have contributed to a positive development in Norwegian food prices in recent years. Materials from the Statistical Central Bureau show that Norwegian-produced goods have increased much less than imported food. From 1990 the food as a group has risen by 18.9 p.m., while the Norwegian goods have increased by just 8.3 p.m. The low price increase in Norwegian goods is alarming and is contrary to the peculiar price increase mentioned by the Workers' Party, the Right and the Advance Party in the adjustment. The index of consumer prices has risen almost three times more than the prices of Norwegian food after 1990. A survey carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture found that the difference between food prices in Norway and Sweden is exactly the difference in VAT. Further studies show that the border trade in meat from Sweden and Denmark is stable. The volume of meat purchased by private individuals has been constant since 1989, according to surveys by GfK Norge AS for Norwegian Meat. It's quite surprising, in relation to the massive advertising that border trade has got through the outpouring from the trading world, and in political outpourings from those who want completely free border trade. It is reassuring that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party agree to reduce taxes on alcohol and tobacco in order to reduce border trade, but not on food, which would also be a handshake for the families of children, who spend the most money on food. I expect the facts about the border trade to be given great weight in the autumn’s big news. I think there's reason to stop at the results of the hunt for cheaper food. The dioxin scandal in Belgium is due to the hunt for cheaper feed, as it was also in the case of cow disease in England. Untransparent and difficult for control officers when all limits are open. Pure food and good health are closely linked. It's impossible to put a price tag on food safety. I have a strong feeling that Ola and Kari Nordmann value this security far higher than the majority of the Stortinges do right now. It's the majority who are engaged in the widest possible cross-border food trade, based on price theory. The favourable price development has been expensive for Norwegian farmers. For many years, there was little willingness on the part of the authorities to ensure that significant price reductions in the agricultural agreement reached the cash registers. This has changed with the central government. Price formation and price developments throughout the whole value chain will be monitored by the authorities over the years to come. I trust that it will not be repeated that farmers will give up income in order to earn even more food chains in search. It is positive that the entire Committee supports the Government's approach to the WTO negotiations starting in November this year. I think it is positive that the Government has taken an offensive position with a view to caring for Norwegian agriculture, which operates under special conditions, and that the multi-functional functions of agriculture should be emphasised in the design of support schemes. The Committee has pointed out that inappropriate interpretation of customs rules leads to the destruction of import protection, which is intended for Norwegian-produced finished products such as pizza and potato chips. It is revealing that the Progress Party does not support a remark to clean up in such circumstances, when the ROK industry is very concerned about that. Agriculture lives in a community of fate with many. Many studies show that a large majority of Norwegians have a strong understanding of the considerable effort needed to maintain today’s forms and scope of operation. I think this understanding will increase, even here in Stortinget. I still believe that the Progress Party will not find an agricultural policy basis for appointing honorary members from other parties during this period.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e54	SV will vote in favour of the agricultural agreement, whether we consider it not a very good agreement. SV wants a Norwegian agriculture that produces healthy food in an environmentally friendly way and that gets the most jobs and decentralised housing for the money. In order to achieve this, we cannot focus our policies on economies of scale, the full-time farmer and more money on the quantity produced. A grant must be chosen as the premium for most jobs, environmentally friendly production and the combined user. There are two trends in agriculture. One is large-scale factory farming, few jobs, heavy environmental pressures and overproduction. The other is small-scale production, niche, with a focus on pure food, workplaces, environment, cultural landscapes, i.e. the multifunctional. SV believes that we have to choose the last, and it is also the only survival strategy if you want food production and agriculture in Norway that can mean something for housing and jobs. SV is disappointed that the government has not used the option of second consecutive years to transform Norwegian agricultural policy, from the island and from economies of scale and industry to multi-functionality. Because there's our chance. There is a greater room for it within the WTO than Norway uses. Every year a lot of money is now spent on going in the wrong direction. It becomes more and less for the small, fewer jobs and use and larger transfers for large uses that could survive. In 1998, the framework increased by over DKK 1 billion and the result was over a thousand fewer jobs. Such settlement is now spent on larger and larger uses that do not contribute significantly to housing, employment and the better environment. It's the big ones that's got the most, and we're giving rewards to those who invest to produce even more of what we have too much of. That's what SV thinks has to be snuffed out. There must be a ceiling on the transfers for each use. We have put in a proposal on land limitations and annual works. Unlike the right and some others, cutting to the bottom, we think it's right to cut to the top. Support beyond, for example: two annual works must be removed. So for some people, transfers have to be limited. We're about to stop on the roof. It is then necessary to provide support for environmental measures and social schemes and not to provide support in the wrong direction. We in SV are a little stated that the Government does not use the opportunities that exist within the WTO, because it does not increase below the WTO ceiling for example. production aid. On the contrary. But for environmental and welfare schemes, the WTO is giving room for growth. Thank you per year. use will reduce transfers and it will also reduce overproduction. We get a better environment and more jobs for the money we put in – more of what we think is socially desirable. We're thinking a little bit about why the government doesn't. The food is expensive, it is said, but both the state, Rimi-Hagen and the farmer have earned. Maybe it would have been wise to look for who it is that has become rich by this. Both the State and Rimi-Hagen are not exactly on the brink of bankruptcy, but the petty peasants lag behind in income. That is the cost-effective way to go, says the committee. The investment fee has been removed, and the tax on fertilizer is now being imposed. There are measures with a cruel distribution profile. There is a lot for the big, little to the small, there is a lack of environmental policy, and it removes the one important possibility of redistribution that we have within the WTO, which is legal, namely to impose taxes on what is environmentally harmful and to give it back to environmental measures and ecology. I can't quite understand why we should give up such an instrument on a voluntary basis and not use it, especially in a situation where we say that we want to position ourselves towards what is multifunctional. As the settlement is now, you say you want to strengthen the market strategies to get more organic food to the user, and that's good. But we think it's completely backwards to take money from conversion to organic farming to get this done. In any case, organic farming is good for the environment. If a signal is now given to slow down the transition to further increase production, it is a completely wrong signal to the market, both to the consumer, not least to those who are going to get this food to the consumer, and to those who are going to process organic food and make it available and attractive to the consumer. So we believe that if you want to bet on organic food, you have to give a clear signal of an increase both in the volume produced and in what's going on for the consumer. Here it's a long way to go. Therefore, the SV has made a proposal to have an objective in this area. I'm dealing with the proposals that are distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e73	Karin Andersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e76	The left is very pleased that a second consecutive year has succeeded in reaching agreement with the organisations involved in the agricultural negotiations. We owe our citizens a national agricultural policy where we have the most control over production forms and the content of food. We're doing the best we can by having a robust Norwegian agriculture. But we have to recognise that in our latitudes and with our topography, there are clear competitive disadvantages on the part of nature in relation to most European countries with which we compete. The right side of Norwegian policy, with the Progress Party at the head, we do not know how to take this into account. Worse still, other parties and opinionists enter the land of oblivion in the same way as the Progress Party in this area. The government's objectives for agricultural policy and income development are a Norwegian agriculture with a varied structure of use and where professionals are to have income development and social arrangements in line with the rest of the society. The lack of recruitment to agriculture shows that these objectives are major challenges. During a 10-year period, the number of operational uses has decreased by one-quarter and the number of annual works by about one-quarter. One-fifth. Regardless of policy decisions, changes in the structure of agriculture occur. One of them has been moving out of Building Norway for decades. This is a complex problem. Then it is strange to read the comment from the Progress Party, which writes that the relocation has continued in the time of the Bondevik government and then concludes that selective measures against a single industry have not had a positive impact on district development. This, of course, refers to agricultural aid. I should like the real world to be as simple as the world of agricultural policy and district policy of the Progress Party. An important policy effort in the coming period is to reduce the cost level of industry. It is gratifying to note that this government has already made a good start on that work. Loss of the investment levy of 400 million. kr and the proposal to remove the mineral fertiliser tax of 165 million. kr are good measures in the right direction. The commercial fertiliser is initially so expensive, and it – combined with the fertiliser plans – means that, in my opinion, the fertiliser tax does not have a noticeable positive environmental effect anymore, but is a purely fiscal charge. Then it's right to take it away. The next step is to introduce lower food tax. Norway is the only country in Western Europe next to Denmark which does not apply a lower rate of VAT for food than for other consumer goods. A reduced food tax will provide the basis for the adjustment of prices and the transfer to agriculture, in addition to the fact that it will also have a beneficial effect in relation to border trade, as well as overall price and wage developments. In this regard, it is with great wonder Right's vision is recorded. The right question is whether reduced food VAT will benefit consumers. When it does so in other countries, why should it not have the same effect also in Norway? One also records the Right’s proposal to increase the deduction to NOK 12 000. It's taking from those who already have little, and giving to those who have more. The bottom coat should have been removed. It has to be right in the situation we're in, giving more to the small and smaller to the big ones, and rather limiting the transfers at the top. On the other hand, what one needs to focus on in the future is those who operate their land and use poorly qualitatively, but still receive a full area grant. Perhaps a minimum turnover requirement may be justified in order to obtain transfers from the country. These are things that need to be discussed in depth, and which one must come back to in the announced agricultural message. The left will point out that Norwegian agriculture will also have to do with safe and clean food in the future, and that is a matter of trust. It also has to do with future safety for own food production. Agriculture policy must be seen in a broad and long-term perspective. The agricultural settlement of the year is a step in the right direction, but there is still much to be done if robust Norwegian agriculture is to be ensured for the future. It also requires the presence of the basic understanding. That's what this government has.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e106	Agriculture maintains important Community values and it is necessary to maintain active and sustainable agriculture throughout the country in order to ensure access to clean and safe food and to maintain the main features of the housing pattern. Agriculture is too many district municipalities a support bar to ensure housing and business. Although operational conditions may be difficult, this is also the case in the northern part of the country. If agriculture is to continue to function in this way in the future, we must continue to have the objective of a higher-income agriculture that is less dependent on transfers. But there will also be a need for significant transfers in the future. In order to improve the incomes of agriculture, it is also necessary to reduce costs. There must still be scope for both large and small uses, and support and action must be targeted at rural areas. The geographical and climatic conditions in Norway make this necessary. I'm glad that this is also the majority's position here in the Storting, but the minority's view worries me. In my opinion, it will not be possible to maintain a viable agriculture throughout the country if the policies of the Progress Party are to be taken into account. When the Progress Party proposes to wind up the system of agricultural agreements between the country and the organisations, this also means that the party will wind up agriculture as a feeder in large parts of our long-term country. This has nothing to do with the inactivity of farmers, but with operating conditions. Nor do I believe that the unilateral market-driven agriculture of the Right can aim to secure this industry in all parts of the country. New technologies are being used in agriculture, as in all other sectors. Employment in this sector has therefore decreased throughout the post-war period. In order to maintain employment and increase value creation in districts, it is necessary to provide for new jobs. In order to achieve this, the incentives provided by the rural development funds are necessary. The building development funds shall contribute to the promotion of profitable industrial development in rural areas within and in relation to agriculture. I do not see the idea that the BU scheme shows positive results, and that the focus on new business development has helped to make better use of the farm's total resources and to strengthen the income base of the use. This is information that does not surprise me, because I have seen for myself what creativity this action has triggered in the countryside, and how activities are created by these means. The use of the BU funds has led to extensive resource mapping in many towns, and this survey has revealed opportunities that the towns have not been aware of in the past. This, in turn, has created new activities and newvarious jobs in the rural communities. In particular, it is important that BU funds can help create more jobs for women in Bygde-Norway. Traditional rural farming needs to remain the basis, but it is important to create a diversity of jobs that can make it attractive to live in Building Norway and that can provide families with an acceptable income base. When the scheme was introduced, on a proposal from former Minister of Agriculture Gunhild Eyeågen, many ridiculed the entire measure. Among other things, terms such as ‘pain’ and ‘drops’ about what these means were to be used for were used. In particular, the Center Party was strong in its criticism of this new and unknown instrument. I have noticed that the Center Party and the other government parties are now pressing the BU system to their breasts, and you can almost get the impression that they would prefer to take credit for this important action being taken.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e132	The government has also agreed this year with Norway's Bondelag and Norwegian Farmers' and Small Farmers' Associations on an agricultural agreement. I believe this is important, because the best basis for implementing agricultural policy is created through a positive dialogue between business organisations and the authorities. The contract has a clear district profile. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee also believes that the profile of settlement is in line with the objectives of ensuring a district-based, small scale and environmentally friendly agriculture. In the settlement, as will be the case in the forthcoming WTO negotiations, emphasis is placed on the versatile tasks of agriculture: preparedness, the maintenance of settlement and the preservation of the cultural landscape. The fact that the majority of the Committee endorses the strategy adopted by the Government in the forthcoming WTO negotiations provides a good basis for the work to be carried out internationally before and in the forthcoming WTO negotiations. There has been a significant focus on food prices and cross-border trade in recent years, including in the debate today. It also does so in its position on agricultural production. The increase in the target prices set out in the agricultural statement is moderate in relation to the development of prices and income in society as a whole and contributes to a minimal increase in the index of consumer prices. I also consider it important to continue the monitoring of food prices throughout the food chain and between countries that have started through the report prepared by the NILF, the Statistical Central Bureau and the ECON. This is a theme that we will come back to in the Storing Message. The Storting Communication will address consumer justice of agricultural policy, and in such a context, I believe, among other things. on the basis of events in the last days in relation to feed and food toxins, that food safety and quality will need to be given considerable weight in the future. I note that the Committee is concerned about the competitive situation in the dairy sector and the conversion of the balancing system. I would like to stress that this is a major and comprehensive case in which it will hardly be possible to have worked well until 1 October 1999. I understand from that committee that it believes that a system should be put in place to meet the dilemma that some of the new actors in the production of human milk can go beyond the end of the economy while the investigation on changes in the milk price and balancing system is ongoing. Of course, I will relate to the committee majority in this matter. I therefore ask that it be possible to assess the way in which a most appropriate response should be given to the comment of the majority of the committee until a new system is in place. I will come back to these questions in connection with St.prp. No 1 for 2000. I further assume that the principles of competition on equal terms should be the guiding principle of the permanent arrangement. Of course, work will be given priority in the progress of the department. I agree with the Industry Committee that dairy co-operation is desirable on the basis of both economic, professional and social arguments. That was also why, at the time of last year's agricultural settlement, a separate grant scheme was established for joint farms. This resulted in a significant improvement in the economic framework conditions for joint ventures. Co-operation has the possibility to take its entire milk quota into the co-operation regardless of its size. This makes co-operation an advantageous form of farming, and there has been a significant increase in the number of co-farms in milk production. This also makes it possible to establish large units, which is not the intention. Nor do I perceive the comments of the majority of the Economic and Social Committee, the members of the Labour Party and the Right, to the point where they disagree with the proposal to restrict the co-operation, but that the issue is of political importance and therefore cannot be settled in an agricultural settlement. I take note that on this basis, the majority of the Business Committee goes into and amends one particular point of a concluded agreement, which is very special. At the same time, I would like to point out that agricultural negotiations normally involve matters of an agricultural policy nature and, in my view, matters of much greater agricultural policy importance than this. In the context of the agricultural policy objectives and guidelines drawn up by the Stortinget, the means of implementing the policy are designed and the ongoing priorities taken into account in the agricultural negotiations. Cost reduction in agriculture has been a key strategy of agricultural policy in recent years. Here I note that the Committee also believes that cost reductions are a proper approach to the creation of viable agriculture. In the last two settlements, tax reliefs have been used to provide a sustainable cost reduction for agriculture of a total of 630 million. kr. With the constraints on the formation of incomes facing agriculture, there is a need to look at agricultural policy as a whole. This also includes conditions in addition to those directly linked to agricultural production, as was done with the investment levy last year. The removal of the environmental tax on fertilisers will reduce the cost of agriculture by about 165 million. kr. Such removal of the fee is not part of the contract, but a self-proposal by the Government. This proposal forms the basis for the negotiated agreement. However, I interpret the comments of the members of the Workers' Party in the Committee so that it will be possible to come back to a final reading when this issue comes up in the context of the discussion of St. prp. No 1 for the harvest, despite what is proposed for adoption in the revised budget, which will be discussed tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e153	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e156	First just briefly until the last time the Council of State was involved: I can confirm that he interprets it correctly. The Workers' Party has not taken a decision on the issue of the removal of fertilizer tax and will deal with it in connection with the State budget of the harvest and see it in the context of the overall fiscal policy approach. Several have been involved in the development of food prices. In my speech, I was quite thoroughly involved in the EU Agenda 2000, which means that the EU has set a plan with a goal of reducing its food prices by 15-20 pst. during a five-year period. My point was that if the EU succeeds in its objectives in Agenda 2000, the price difference between Norwegian food and EU-produced food will increase by 15-20 pst. during a five-year period, if our prices are stable during the same period. I have two questions for the Council of State in that context. Firstly, does the Council agree with me in the reality description I now give of the impact of the EU Agenda 2000? And secondly, does this state council worry, in the sense that it says something about what direction Norwegian food prices need to develop? Or does the Council of State believe that Norwegian consumers prefer Norwegian food, regardless of any price difference?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e167	I think it is quite clear that Norwegian consumers want as reasonable food as possible. At the same time, however, I also believe Norwegian consumers are very conscious of the safety and quality of what they buy. What's left to know is, of course, to what extent there's an increased willingness to pay for that type of product. And we're left with that. One reality, however, is that Norwegian consumers gradually buy food that has become increasingly processed – i.e. a higher cost. Norwegian consumers today buy a large part of their food at the gas stations, which has the greatest impact on what the price should really be. In this way you also have a choice in the system per. today. So it was Agenda 2000: the EU commits to partially offsetting this over the budget, that is, the compensation the farmer should have for price cuts. I refer to a look-up in Landsbladet from Denmark, which indicates that pig producers in Denmark will have an operating deficit of NOK 90 000 in the current year. It is clear that this is also no sustainable agriculture compared to those we are going to compare with. And if these prices are going to fall again, it is likely that in the EU too, there will gradually be a problem as to how to balance the market price in relation to the price of the producer. But these are challenges that I, as Minister of Agriculture, see absolutely, and that we will have to give a broad approach to consumer policy in the context of the announcement that Stortinget will receive for the harvest and debate in the spring session. It is clear that I am concerned that we have expensive food in Norway. At the same time, however, we must also be willing to see how we are going to achieve the other objectives of our agricultural policy, which have been highlighted earlier in the debate today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e178	Governments were also involved in this price balancing system in the new milk market organisation. The Committee has given strong leadership in this area. We had hearings with, among other things, The representatives of farm dairies and Gausdalsmeieriet in the case, and they believe that the cohesion levy is unreasonable and contributes to a strenuous economy, which, of course, the Committee as such cannot decide. However, the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party point to the fact that it is a dilemma that the new actors can go beyond the end, and that this can help to hinder the establishment of competition at the processing stage. The whole Committee believes that the working group must now have rapid progress and complete its work by 1 October, while the majority – the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party – believes that a new fee should be set off from 1 June onwards. The council said it was difficult to do all the work before 1 October. But my question is: does the Council of State think it is possible to carry out a full review of the price balancing system with regard to the part that is involved in monitoring the level of the balancing charge, if it is too high, whether it can be altered from 1 October, if it can be done until then? As I see it, it shouldn't be an impossible problem. And if you can't do the whole assessment and investigation with alternatives, can you continue to consider other ways of doing this in time after October 1st? I'm thinking about the future of the private actors.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e188	The Ministry has announced that the review will take place through the proposition. I have also registered the driving role of the majority of the committee as representatives. On the part of the Council of State and the Ministry, we will do everything we can to ensure that this work is done as quickly as possible. What I am asking for is that it is not easy to get a clear response from the Council of State to 1 October. But the intention of the Committee's comment, as the Council of State sees it, is that this should not lead to the private leaving the market or bankruptcy before a job is put in place. What I'm asking for is that we have to look at what other arrangements we can use in an intermediate phase to make this work. I think we should also be aware that a change in this charge would lead to a reduction in the benefits if what might be added to human milk. In other words, another private actor, e.g. Sensing the Find, will get a different image in this context. This is basically a zero account about distribution, whether the amounts in it are correct. It is clear that there must also be private actors in the future – Tine is also one of the private actors. The intention is that this should be a level playing field. Someone who then chooses to give a 20-30 øre payout price more to the manufacturer will have a lower starting point for going with profits. As you can see, this picture is complicated as to how we're going to put in place the competition we want for the dairy sector. I want to make it very clear: this is a competition that we want to get, but it has to happen on equal terms.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e199	To the last Council of State said that the intention is that all parties should be treated equally in relation to this with competition in the dairy sector, and that this is something you want from the Government: if it is the case that the Government wants it, I am absolutely sure that it is able to find a system that is such that you get that equal treatment. I think will is not immaterial in this context. The Council of State was earlier concerned with food security, etc., and then they argue to build up the level of transfer necessary to achieve this in relation to the price of the Norwegian market, and then the Council of State said that people are willing to pay, and that they are buying more and more at gas stations. And that's kind of an indication that people are willing to pay a lot! The government's attitude to the opening time law will lead to an increasing number of goods having to be purchased at gas stations, because the business will have to close early. In today's vote, there is a note from the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right that points to the development we now have in terms of the food transfers to agriculture, where over the last two years we have had an increase of 1250 million. kr. Thus, measured in fixed 1998 crowns, the first increase in industrial transfers to agriculture was in the 1990s. And there the committee majority says that they «points out that this is not in line with the direction of development described in St.prp. No 8 [[1992-93]] What are the thoughts of the Council of State that the majority of the population expresses that the government has opted for the volume of nutrient transfers to agriculture is not in line with the will of the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e213	I am pleased that the representative Gabrielsen has agreed that the main purpose of this review is that of course one should have equal competition. A final answer to whether this charge is wrong is still available as it is today, and the Committee also points out that it has no basis to see whether it is correct or not. So this is a balance between different types of production to get to zero. So we're going to do that job as fast as we can. After all, it is not certain that longer opening hours will provide cheaper food. It may be that there is also a cost-added factor when you need to have a larger crew over a longer period of time to sell these foods. So to the evolution we have in terms of transfers: it's true that we in agricultural policy have a lot of goals. A majority, when examining the 1998 budget, said that they agreed with the Government's objective that those working in agriculture should have income development as other groups in society. It was then agreed that there would be policy in the future, and that is the means by which you can try to find out about this scheme. As Minister of Agriculture, I do not want us to have an increase in business transfers. This will be one of the major challenges for the communication we are about to discuss, and the Committee says in its opening remarks that it has chosen to push ahead with the major agricultural policy debate until this communication comes. This will be one of the major challenges Biggetet also gets – the government gets them first, and then the Stortinget gets them – namely the many partly conflicting goals we have for Norwegian agriculture, what they have to meet, and the way in which we are going to achieve income development also in agriculture, so that there will be some who will be in that profession. We shall have that debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e222	Governments stressed that pure food and the confidence that Norwegian food was pure were important in the future for consumers to want it, and perhaps also be willing to pay a higher price. And then both the special and the general ecology of agriculture is important. I therefore have a question that relates to our proposal No. 1, i.e. the Government has proposed to remove the environmental tax on fertilizers. They have given a different signal, they have increased the environmental tax on pesticides, and that is positive. But they take away an opportunity both for a source of income and for something that can be re-issued for general ecology. The Council of State does not see that it is inappropriate to give up such an instrument that goes straight into what is now called multi-functionality, according to the WTO Agreement, and that must be able to give a signal that Norwegian-produced food is cleaner than other food, if one had managed to reduce the use of fertilizers in general. There is a great deal of emphasis on the full-time farmer, both from the government and from the committee majority, and then there must be a lot of fewer farmers. That means that there are even fewer people in the countryside, and being a farmer becomes a very lonely job. One is going on a use that is going to be one's full-time job, where one is going to produce a lot and also get large transfers, I understand. Doesn't the Council of States see, if we were to focus on living settlements, that it would be more appropriate to bet on combined use. I think modern people can imagine living like that, working a little bit with agriculture, having a different position on the say, and getting a wider social contact network and experiencing different realities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e231	As Stortinget knows, Norwegian agricultural policy introduces a very clear structure profile. In other words, it is the smallest units in terms of volume of work and output that receive the largest grant per year. unit of production. This is a misguided policy, and it is necessary to maintain a small scale of agriculture. Some of the political signals that have come from a majority here today mean that the Council of State is also being challenged in relation to the structure we already have, and in what way we are going to shape this in the future. So for ecology, fertilizer and tax: it's not that it's the fee that decides whether this is environmentally friendly or not, but it's how much fertilizer is used in the production itself. So now we're giving the industry a challenge by demanding a fertilizer plan on all farms. If agriculture, against assumption, chooses to increase the use of fertilizer despite the fact that it is economically unprofitable and environmentally not right, we will have to re-use this instrument. Now we give a challenge, and we can measure how this works through this means of action we put in. Then I would like to add that we have put up an environmental effort to have an environmental plan for each use, and we are building up instruments to meet multifunctional agriculture, which we are also going to market in the WTO negotiations. We have started this in the year's settlement and will continue it through the notification. This is a strategy that I agree with the SV's representative in is important, so we'll look at symbols and what's the reality, and then we might go in and change this at a later stage. But it is very important that we participate and reduce costs in Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e240	It is such that agricultural policy-making is, to a large extent and, after all, increasingly policy-making. First of all, it is decisive for the ability to pay in agriculture. When it comes to the last one, even one that comes from an agricultural area encounters some explanation problems when it comes to the level of wages in many environments. The fact is that it is now year after year that we have increased transfers to agriculture. Only in the last two years have public efforts increased by nearly DKK 1.8 billion. Nevertheless, the number of use is falling and the number of gardeners is falling, and the question then goes on the simple division that does not go up: why does not every farmer have a better wage development than what is suggested by the figures that are at the root of the agricultural problem? The second is that there is still a problem in understanding that a farm is equivalent to a year's work in other jobs, when one sees that within agriculture one person may lose two years' work or over it, which is impossible in the rest of his life. So once again with the transfers. The Minister of Agriculture replied earlier that he did not see it as desirable to increase transfers. Does the Minister for Agriculture realize that transfers will increase at the same rate over the years to come? Or is there another approach that ensures a district-based, small scale and environmentally friendly agriculture in Norway in the future as well?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e249	Today, the message has been partly that food prices are going down, transfers are going down, the number of operators in the industry is preferably not going down, and they are going to have an income trend in line with others in society. Everyone realizes that this is a part of the conflicting goal. If it is the case that society, in general, grants a wage increase of approx. 6 pst., and that there's going to be as many in this industry as before, there has to be a cash outflow at one point or another. If that is even a reluctance to join in and get a majority for cost reduction in industry, I ask for understanding that the Council of State actually feels that this is difficult. But I'm going to work on this until I'm going to deliver a message. I'm going to go through this with the calculation of annual work, and look at the size of the piece that will be in each annual work, whether it is reasonable as it is today, or whether it should be changed. Otherwise, I would like to add that for the Council of State it is important to say that agriculture is not just the production of litres and kilograms. Agriculture is multi-functional agriculture, the multi-faceted tasks of agriculture, and a number of options are identified. Agricultural production is a means of income, not a guarantee of income. I have been in contact with all the municipalities in the country and invited them to conferences – I have now been in contact with approximately two months. 1000 people – where Kommune-Norge tells me what agriculture means, and I think that is an important message also for the Stortinget when they are going to debate this further. Here we have to be together to find creative solutions, so that the possibilities of agriculture and land can be exploited in a much more creative way than what we have done so far.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e258	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e261	This year's negotiated agricultural agreement, according to the Workers' Party, goes one more step in the wrong direction. In two years of central government, the country's expenditure on agricultural transfers has increased altogether by a total of DKK 1.7 billion. It's going to be a very popular short term like this! But what does the industry stand before the years to come? The political landscape tells us that the Right Party and the Advance Party do not want to be on these transfers. Neither will the Workers' Party. But they expect the current government to present a more long-term and holistic agricultural and consumer policy than it has so far seen, and therefore join the negotiated agreement at that point this year. As you can see, the big message about agricultural policy that's alerted to the fall becomes interesting reading. It must certainly have views on how the Government of my Norwegian agriculture is going to meet international trade and the increasing – not to say the almost explosive – border trade we have seen. The agricultural agreement of the year will, of course, increase farmers' incomes for the next year of the agreement. But if a different approach is based on the Norwegian interest rate level, one, like me, can come in completely different thoughts. 1 pst. interest rate reduction gives farmers 500 million. kr i reduced expenditure annually. It is well in this industry, as in society, that an interest rate reduction plays the most important role for those who need it the most. I'm somewhat uncertain as to whether this year's agricultural policy is arranged like this. Norway today has a level of interest that has historically been higher. Yes, but today the rate is about 3 pst. over interest rates in the countries with which we can compare. 3 pst. is about DKK 1 1⁄2 billion in free means of farming only - annually. Yes, this government has challenges to address. If they are closed, the agricultural industry will in the future become a safer and more robust industry. I don't see the setting for a collective committee to go in to increase the rights of organic farming. It's positive. In an agricultural policy everyday life, where overproduction and distribution are the challenges, it is a paradox that we are not self-contained with organic products. All natural resources are at the root of this, and it is in line with current agricultural policy, cf. St. pp. No 8 for 1992-93, Developed agriculture. The annual agricultural settlement, which is currently being debated, tells of a government that has major problems in obtaining its penance and policy. In the newspaper The Nations on 16 June, the leader of the nutrition committee, Morten Lund, takes up his point of view on the co-operation of the agricultural agreement. He is talking about the 'weakness and disloyalty' in relation to the contractual system when he characterises this intervention by a majority of the committee, the members of the Labour Party and the Right, who oppose a restriction of three persons in the co-operation in milk production. I want to say thank you for my account! Finally, I would like to remind the representative Morten Lund that the Central Party also does not have completely pure flour in the bag when it comes to respecting concluded agricultural agreements. The difference is that the central party put in opposition and almost throw money in the million-class according to the parties to the agreement. But it was that time and it was now!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e280	Despite the fact that the Labour Party believes that the Government of this year's agricultural agreement has gone beyond the framework given by the Stortinget, we will support the agreement. There is strong doubt, and it is followed by quite strong comments that the statement goes in the wrong direction. Both food prices and direct subsidies will increase as a follow-up to this indicated. It is not in line with what the Storting said when handling St.prp. No 8 for 1992-93, and it is not in line with developments elsewhere in Europe. The Labour Party now expects the Government to follow the direction drawn up at the next crossroads, and hopes that the industry itself will take on the challenges we face in relation to other countries, instead of arguing for higher food prices. The Labour Party is voting against a point in the agreement – new rules for joint operations – we have a point for budget management in the fall – to remove the fertiliser charge – and we have comments in a number of areas. In the rest of this article, I want to focus on the competitive situation in the dairy sector and on co-operation in milk production. Legislation opens up competition in the dairy sector. Few have tried, and they have had some serious problems. The Labour Party stands by the fact that it will be open to competition and that TINE will no longer have monopoly. TINE has the role of market regulator, they have both reception and universal service obligations. They must have paid for it, and these costs must be borne by private operators. TINE is also a producer, and it might be an idea to separate market regulation tasks into a separate unit. According to my opinion, a theme should become available at a later time. The majority of its commitment to competition in the dairy sector has been that this competition must take place on a level playing field. The TINE system shall be corked or lost on its market regulation tasks. Therefore, there must be a price and anti-aliasing system that implements this. There is doubt as to whether the current system and the level of fees are correct, and a selection has been set down to evaluate this. It supports a collective committee. Of course, the size cannot decide on the claim that the fees are too high. However, it is likely that they have reacted to the fact that they have not been able to understand how they have arrived at the taxes that apply today. The working party is pleased that a joint committee has suggested that the private actors should also be represented in the above selection. I have a private dairies in my community, which I have the impression of working well. They have arranged with both suppliers and consumers. Nevertheless, Jären Gardsmeieri may not be life-created. I can accept that. What is not acceptable is that they go bankrupt because they have conditions worse than TINE. A number of the Committee proposed that any new charges should apply from 1 June and be settled accordingly. It would be a pity if someone who seemed to be able to survive with a possible new fee, now went bankrupt. It is claimed that the arc is laborious and creative. This may be because on my edges we find both private dairies and many examples of joint ventures. The last approval is a large poultry with 150 cows and a total milk quota of 750,000 litres. It is a top modern poultry with good conditions for the animals, with cooperation and working community between five farmers, and with the possibility of arranging working conditions. It has reduced investment costs monthly, and it will reduce government transfers monthly. I think the feather is big, maybe in the borderland of what we refer to as more industrially oriented use. What I, the Workers' Party and the plurality of the Committee don't understand, is that it's the number of actors to be constrained, not the size of the usage. It is not possible to reject a joint venture with five participants with a total quota of 200000 litres of milk, while a joint venture with three participants and a quota of 600000 litres is to be approved. In addition, we are very surprised that this is included in the agricultural agreement. It belongs at home in the agricultural message we're going to get to the autumn. The majority therefore reject the current change and refer to the agricultural message. We do not, however, consider the question of the delimitation of co-operation as a detail of Norwegian agricultural policy. Finally, I would like to point out that the Committee is concerned about the situation in fur animal nutrition. A number of the Committee are constantly asking the Government to assess developments and whether the industry needs financial assistance to overcome the current market situation. It is an assumption that aid will benefit the individual producer and that it will not lead to the long-term development of the industry as a support-dependent industry. Parts of the laws and regulations of this industry are very old, and it is possible that a thorough review of the whole thing is needed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e303	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e306	I am pleased that the State has reached a negotiated agricultural agreement with Norway's Bondelag and Norwegian Bonde and Small Farmers' Teams. Agriculture is an important food supply in large parts of our country. Significant transfers will continue to be needed, not least to maintain active, robust and environmentally friendly agriculture in District Norway. This is necessary to ensure the settlement and jobs. I believe that the full-time farmer and young farmers in the establishment phase should be given priority in our transfers to agriculture. I have registered that the Committee agrees that cost reductions in Norwegian agriculture can be a proper approach to creating a more robust agriculture. However, in our quest to promote cost-reduction measures, it will be very important to achieve the objective of environmentally friendly agriculture. Our best strategy to meet increasing competition will be to ring the bells on our ‘Clean Food’ strategy. One of the main challenges facing agriculture is overproduction in Norwegian agriculture, almost in all of our production areas. The solution could be impossible to export overproduction to our neighbouring countries at dumped prices. I am surprised to find Norwegian-produced agricultural products in Swedish grocery stores, which on regular sales are about. 30 pst. below the prices of the same product in Norway. It would be right to invest more strongly in organic food production. While in parts of our country there is a shortage of such products, in other places there are problems in getting this production up to consumers. We are therefore pleased that the Committee will give priority to the work on market strategies for organic farming. The privatisation of Arcus may mean that Norwegian potato producers lose a substantial part of their turnover, which goes to Norwegian liquor production. I hope the Council of State will find solutions that will still ensure farmers' deliveries beyond 20,000 tons of potatoes per year, if Arcus is privatized. The BU scheme has been a success. It is important to contribute to the creation of new jobs within and in relation to agriculture. I have registered that through this year's agreement, the agricultural organisations are sure to influence the way in which the contract funds are to be disposed of. As I understand it, this does not include the organisations of forestry, which I would very much regret. Many counties, e.g. Hedmark, has very good experience that forestry has also been given influence. Although there is a negotiated agreement, I hope that the Council of State can help to ensure that the organisations of forestry are involved in the disposal of BU funds, at least in those states that have a wish to do so. After an important and positive big debate on our forest policy just a week ago, I had not thought that the industry would be neglected in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e332	The agricultural negotiations of the year came into the port with agreement on a contractual framework of 1,140 million. kr. This is the second year in a row that we come to an agreement with both agricultural organisations. Of course, I am very pleased with this. The starting point of a negative income overhang in 1999 made the negotiations difficult. The agreement gives agriculture an income increase from 1998 to 1999 of 2,8 p.m., while the income effect of the contract for the contract year is 10 p.m. The fact that we get these results is related to the strong fluctuations in cost developments that interest rates have created, but also because last year we used some disposables. If agriculture had been given income growth this year in line with the Arntsen Committee, this would have led to a large increase in next year's income level. This issue was also understood by the agricultural organisations and had it partly embedded in the design of their first requirement. It's not a simple situation that we get so big differences in the income impact of a contract, depending on whether we measure the impact on calendar year or contract year. Getting out of such fluctuations must take some time and will have to be handled jointly by the parties in the future agricultural negotiations. An overall nutrition committee points to the challenges we face with regard to the price level of Norwegian agricultural products. Agricultural income growth is a sum of what we do with prices of agricultural products, different direct subsidies to industry, import protection and what structure we want Norwegian agriculture to have. I agree with the Industry Committee that the challenges are great. The outside world demands what we have to deal with and that will affect policy-making in the future. The announced big-time communication on agricultural policy will discuss these issues, and I hope we can have a good debate in the EEA that can provide the basis for a stable framework for industry. Professionals in the industry deserve it. In the Committee's position, the Progress Party has pointed out that they are in principle opposed to the entire agricultural agreement. Now there is no surprise, but I still want to make some comments. Due to its geographical location, the majority of Norwegian agriculture could not survive without significant import protection and transfers. However, Norwegian society has wanted us to have a farm here in the country, both for food production and for housing, etc. In other words, Norwegian farmers are set to carry out a task they have received from society, and where the framework conditions for the execution are laid down by us as political authorities. In such a situation it is, in my view, both right and right that professionals have a right to negotiate where their framework conditions and the means of income can be dealt with. This has something to do with democracy, and I really assume that most people support such a view. The agricultural agreement we are discussing today is thus a negotiated result.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e347	It's going to be line change. On the basis of an expected long debate evening in Stortinget, the President will propose that the number of lines be limited to three after this Council of State. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e352	The Minister of State, Mr Bavøy, is also, as far as I understand, the Minister of the Government's Prize. And there has been a long debate on the development of Norwegian food prices in this case, with a particular focus on challenges related to border trade. We also see that the main organisation of the trade and service industries, HSH, expresses great concern about the loss of Norwegian jobs as a result of their figures showing a border trade in 1998 of about DKK 7 billion. From the workers side too, there is a great deal of concern about the loss of Norwegian jobs as a result of the large border trade we have. I do not intend to ask the Minister of Agriculture any questions about the price, but simply ask whether the border trade we have in food concerns the Council of State. What kind of strategies does the Government work with in an overall perspective to address the challenges — let me say the loss of income and loss of Norwegian jobs as a result of the continuing rise in border trade?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e359	It is clear that it is difficult to answer whether there is a loss of Norwegian jobs, whether there is a loss of income, without having carried out the necessary studies to prove it. With regard to the Government's strategy related to these issues, I would like to refer to the agricultural message that will come during the fall, and which I hope and believe will be able to integrate all these major, important questions, including this, into the overall discussion. We'll have to come back to that. I cannot answer if there is a loss of jobs; in that case it is not documented to me.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e368	The Minister of Labour and Administration commented on the view of the Progress Party on the agricultural agreement that we did not want it, and she felt that agriculture had a special responsibility, that it bears parts of the rural policy on its back. We also have other sectors that are relatively large — and have been relatively large — in the districts, for example. construction, but we do not have a building master's agreement or other such agreements between the state and private operators. I also remember that the Norman Committee a few years ago looked at this with grants per. in the districts, and, as far as I remember, came to an amount of between 60 000 and 70 000 DKK per place. employment. When we know that agriculture in the districts costs many times that per person. at work, could it not be wise and reasonable to consider other ways of maintaining residence than to assign large parts of that responsibility to agriculture, when it costs such enormous amounts? I would remind you that from 1975 to 1997, the total cost of agriculture was 500 billion kroner when we included the protection aid in that period, i.e. an enormous amount, and at the same time the number of farmers in Norway was halved. We had Norway's largest population movement from the districts to the central struts. Does the Council of State not see that it could make sense now that we in Norway too are gradually starting to look for alternatives to maintaining housing — for a much more reasonable money?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e381	It is true that over a long period of time, we have been putting our agriculture up in the way we have done, and I repeat that agriculture depends on a number of support schemes and grant schemes. But we depend on our agriculture, both for housing, culture, food production, etc. As everyone knows, there are also subsidy schemes linked to other industries in different ways, so in this way agriculture is not the only one.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e388	I noticed that the Council of State Davøy stated that she was very pleased that they had reached an agreement. – Now I’ve learned that government councils are, to varying degrees, excited, but that a government council expresses so much enthusiasm for reaching such an agreement as this, I may find it strange. In the Committee’s opinion, it is a majority who believe that Norwegian agriculture cannot in the long term rely on a situation where Norway should be the only country with an increase in food prices. The Council of State was involved in this with the price estimate in the light of this agreement. A majority comment states: ‘The majority would therefore point out that a future agricultural policy cannot be based on an annual increase in food prices in the way they have done in recent years.’ Now Stortinget gets an agricultural message for treatment for the winter that I guess will be processed immediately before Stortinget splits in about a year. This means that one must assume that the agricultural negotiations to take place in the spring will be based on St. pp. No 8 for 1992-93, on which this debate is also based. Then my question is: will the Minister of Price take note of the view of the majority of the population that a future Norwegian agricultural policy cannot be based on the fact that food prices will rise each year in the way they have done in the last few years? Will the Council of State ensure that when we stand here and discuss this in a year's time, are we not in the situation that the majority of the population express that the government's negotiated agreement is contrary to the current guidelines for Norwegian agricultural policy?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e402	As an old trade union leader, I think it's always nice when you get a negotiating agreement, so I'm actually glad that we came to an agreement with the two agricultural organisations. In this way, this is a negotiated result, it's not a dictatorship from the Government. And we are happy to have reached this agreement. With regard to the increase in food prices and the concern of Gabrielsen, also in view of the fact that the Stortinget has been very concerned about this in the past, the Minister of Agriculture has also expressed in some of his answers today that there is absolutely no desire on his part or on the part of the Government for a strong increase in food prices every year. This is, of course, an important part of the agricultural notification and the discussion in which the Stortinget will be invited to participate when the notification is to be processed in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e409	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e413	There is broad consensus that expenditure in this area needs to be limited, and then the question is how to do it. SV has made a proposal on thank you per year. use, and we think it makes sense, both because it makes little sense to provide subsidies and subsidies for operations that are economically viable, and you can do that if you get support up to a certain ceiling, for example, two annual works, and because we want to distort the support so that you don't constantly increase production, because it's produced too much. And I could imagine asking e.g. The Labour Party, which is wondering a little bit about the increase in agricultural costs now, whether they might see that this is the explanation, that we have no thanks, that you can produce more and more and take more money, and that you have a policy that promotes larger and larger productions – that it is part of it. Would it not have been a good idea to look at such a roof instead of attacking from below and taking the little ones first? There is, of course, an important living building policy to be able to have a combined use, to combine different professions and to make the whole a living. It would also be interesting to get a clarification from the Workers' Party regarding the fees. Firstly, there are effective market mechanisms, so if the fees are high enough, the use of pesticides or fertilizers is reduced, and that can give a green signal, in the pure food direction. Secondly, it is an important redistribution system, which we are allowed to use within the system, and which does not affect the size of the framework. Therefore, it is an important tool if you want to go both in the right direction of distribution and in the green direction. And then I can't help but say that after the last two days in the Storting, I'm sitting with a very strange feeling, and I've been involved in a lot of debates. It's about how the Progress Party appears with an incredible number of faces. Today: If their agricultural policy had been implemented, it would have taken from thousands of people both at home and at work, and would have shut down the entire community overnight. It's pretty strong to be a witness to. And yesterday, when it was about the local economy, they were going to rationalize and move and lay down and privatize to such an extent that very many people would lose the offer in their local environments, and they would lose the job. And they would also put community down there. In addition, they would have a funding system that would lead to one having to lay down a lot of hospitals. And on yesterday's pitch, they were at the head of a local hospital ward, and they said they were fighting for the community! – I get very confused, I hope that the voters too will soon see all these different faces.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e424	In the protocol to the agreement we are now discussing, forestry is literally thrown out by the BU-governments of the Lander and the Small User Team. It may seem unfair that an organisation that is not present is being treated in this way, but the greater the joy it was to hear the article from Einar Olav Skogholt. He has on some previous occasions proved to be a lonely swallow in the Workers' Party in terms of district policy, and subject to that being not the case this time, and with the hope that so is not the case this time, I will note that there is a majority on the Storting that believes that forestry must be represented in the local BU controllers, at least in the forest counties. I assume that the Council of State has also noticed. Otherwise, I agree with those who are happy that, after all, it has become an agreement. I can nevertheless say that it is disappointing, also from my point of view, that the Government did not take more account of the majority remarks that the agreement is not based on the guidelines set out in St.prp No. 8 for 1992-93. I do not think that is so dangerous in and on its own, because that recognition will have to be linked to the forthcoming agricultural report and to the State budget for the autumn. And there, with all sorts of goodwill, I'd like to understand the Council's heartache that this isn't easy. He refers to all the conflicting objectives, the desire for greater incomes for the individual farmer, the desire for lower prices, the desire for a multi-professional agriculture, the desire for safe food – all the good wishes that we all share, but at the same time this desire that makes Ole Brumm shine like the pure slice of Taffe Tom. In other words, the Council of State will have to make these choices at some point in time. And of course – as I said – I understand that it is not easy. But if I'm allowed to say that, in difficult situations, it's important to try to figure out where you have your friends. And then my advice is that the first council should do, is to ignore the comments that come from the parties behind his government, try to find solutions in cooperation with the Right, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party in a crossover of the different considerations. That is where the solution to the future agricultural policy must be found, and I hope, in order to reduce the pressure, that the Council of State will take over as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e431	The parties shall have a favourable opinion in order to reach an agreement on the agricultural settlement this year. In recent years, it has been the exception rather than the rule. Reinforcement of environmental measures, efforts on organic products, improvement of the early retirement scheme and a potential sustainable cost reduction for agriculture have taken place in the right direction. It is also positive that the Government contributes to the further development of prevention measures aimed at the sheep and reindeer industries and that emphasis is placed on dialogue and participation in relation to those who live and have commercial interests in areas of predatory game. Large loss rates and poor price developments have helped many sheep farmers to give up. In the Nordic region, for example, the number of winter feed sheep has decreased by 10,000 animals over three years. And jobs disappear at a frightening speed. I think the extent of predatory plagues this summer will be very crucial because if many of the sheep farmers still see life being created to continue. Reasonable conditions for the renewal of the operating appliance are necessary. There has been little funding in the Agricultural Development Fund for this in recent years. In Northern Ireland, almost one third of applications for use expansion have been granted. It will mean on average less than one project per. municipalities in the year, or with the number of today’s use 100 years between each time a use receives public utility. Any increase here is love. If we like it or not, we live in a conversion time. The question is, what do we convert to? As much rationalization as possible and Europeanisation, if we can use that word? Or can we make greater use of the advantages we have here north? Conversion may also mean development. And I believe our great challenge and opportunity lies in purity and quality. Health and the environment must be at the forefront. It is above all in these areas that the whole country can compete. And if we're going to hear about a multifunctional agriculture, it's not a point to centralize as much as possible. Important keywords are diversity, labelling and marketing. A parallel here is the priority of work on market strategies for organic farming, just to bring production to consumers. For this reason, I would like to include a quote from journalist Mona Mathisen in Nordlys: ‘When hamburgers who taste like soaked particle boards alone seem to sell because of the advertising and distribution network of the chains, then Norwegian agriculture must be able to sell healthy products in a world with regular food scandals.’ Not so that everyone is going to drive organically, but we can become more aware of our ability to make use of the advantages we have with pure nature, little need for pesticides, good animal health, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e449	In its main contribution, the Council of State was concerned about this with the cost of Norwegian food and the work, among other things. The NILF is in the process of being executed. A preliminary project was presented by the Council of State on 3 June on price levels and price formation for food. Food prices in Norway are compared with prices in Sweden and Denmark. And this study shows so far that an average Norwegian shopping cart with food is 12 pst. cheaper in Sweden and Denmark than in Norway. While Norway has a VAT of 23 pst., the VAT on food products in Sweden is 12 pst. Governments then have the reasoning – as I have read from the press release – that if VAT on food is reduced to Swedish level, there is reason to believe that a Norwegian food basket will cost about the same amount. As we see it, a differentiated VAT at a lower rate on food will not solve the problems of borderline leakage to Sweden. For the products that are baits on the food side of Ola and Kari Nordmann during trade tours to Sweden, the price differences are so significant that lower food moms are not monks. The price differences can be many times the higher Norwegian VAT. The trade fair will pay itself if we remove the VAT on groceries in their entirety. This applies to some oysters, meat dough, bacon in slices, chicken, ribs and much, much more. A reduced food tax will in these cases not lead to significantly lower food prices. Furthermore, Denmark has the same VAT rate as we in Norway, but significantly lower food prices. The investigation NOU 1993:8, should the VAT be differentiated?, concluded that the distribution effect of differentiating VAT was very modest and that such a scheme would involve more bureaucracy and major control problems. We believe that reducing food tax in practice will mean increasing indirect subsidies to agriculture, because higher food prices will increase. Although consumers, in addition to farmers, will gain some of the benefits, reducing the food tax is an animal and poor way to do so. Nevertheless, we will support the work undertaken by the Ministry to increase knowledge of price levels and knowledge of Norwegian food. It is desirable from the point of view of the Progress Party to continue the project and to deepen the work of the analysis. The whole value chain in the food market should be explored in order to provide an overview of the price conditions and possibilities for fairer food. This is important and significant, because such an investigation can provide answers to the extent to which the price to consumers represents the different parts of the value chain from land to table, or from cradle to grave. By comparing with other countries, we can find out where our food is most expensive and get done something with it. There may be grounds for opinion formation and decisions here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e464	I am pleased with an agricultural agreement that both trade unions can put behind them. I have recorded in the debate that several people are trying to hide behind the WTO agreement that it is the reason why we have to bring down the agricultural aid. I want to say that we have opportunities within the WTO if we want. I also think it is very important to stress that Norwegian agriculture has a clear advantage in world agriculture. We have little lack of water, and water is actually the largest agricultural limiting factor in the world. I also think it is important to emphasise that agriculture makes Norway green, and that travel life in Norway, which is a not insignificant industry, reaps great benefits from the 12 billion we invest in the agricultural agreement. The Norwegian Agriculture Agreement is a good tool to ensure Norwegian food safety and Norwegian food production. This is a rolling social agreement between the state and industry, combining consumer issues with price and quality, income issues for industry and the country's desire for food security and national preparedness. It is therefore very encouraging to hear such a multi-voice Rema/Rimi choir here in the hall, which to a very large extent focuses only on the element of consumer prices. I don't think they have the people behind this one-sided focus on agriculture. The industry has a high level of support, and all surveys in the 1990s also show that the population supports Norwegian agriculture, although this results in higher prices. Agriculture is a far more important issue than food prices. We must not make agriculture small. In the further work, it is important not to pretend that agriculture is a state enterprise, but to assume that farming is an important part of Norway’s small and medium-sized enterprises. It is a stabilising element of employment systems in the vast majority of Norwegian and Norwegian municipalities. Food is not any product. Every defense, every country must secure its own maritime supply. It is therefore amazing to hear that both the Advance Party and the Right, who are so very concerned about the Defence in other contexts, are so little concerned about preserving food production in Norway and our own food security. Farming is often a family business embedded in local employment systems and cannot be treated as a telecommunications business when rationalising them. There are clear limits to what can be done before changing both structure, geography and income opportunities. It also seems that someone has not understood the difference between pay and income. Agriculture is a private industry where you don't get paid, but you get income. The Agriculture Agreement is a social agreement with an industry that represents a major and important value creation and that ensures good management of the nation’s food production potential.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e481	I note that the agreement will mainly receive its support here in Stortinget. I must also admit that the debate has been quite explosive – it has given various signals. It has been said from some that the focus of Norwegian agricultural policy lies between the Progress Party/Right and the Workers Party, and the Council of State must take note of it. The Council of State invites cooperation to find solutions to the discussion we are going to have in the UK on agricultural policy in the future. I do not reject anyone, but I must say that I do not imagine that this government can present a message that will satisfy the agricultural policy of the Progress Party. I hope, on the other hand, that there will be constellations here in Stortinget which have a broader perspective on Norwegian agriculture in the future, where we want to maintain agriculture throughout the country, and where we also want to give conditions to those who are in the industry, so that people can still be in the countryside. We're not just talking about the farmer who produces. We're talking about the processing industry that's further processing, we're talking about the machine supplier that's involved in value creation out in the district, and about everything that comes in addition. Talking about transfers to agriculture as such without including the value creation that goes on beyond will be a mistake. I ask that we take with us the perspectives that we are now entering into as important a work as it is, and try to introduce some new guidelines into a new millennium for Norwegian agriculture that also provides security. I confirm to the representative Hedstrøm that we are committed to continuing the price survey that we have started. The Minister of Finance has also said that work will be done on border trade by the Ministry of Finance. Similarly, you should be aware that the survey we have carried out shows that there is also a certain difference in the price of goods in border areas on the Swedish side and in other parts of Sweden, but it is also to position itself against something you would like to buy. I will continue vigorously to get a message ready, so that the Storting will have the challenge to debate Norwegian agriculture in the future as well, and I will promise that there will be quite difficult and heavy balances for most of those who want a good result for Bygde-Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e496	I take note of the summary of the debate and the signals by the Council of State, and to the extent that the setting, against the recordings that have been made in relation to the work that has to be assumed takes place in the Government in relation to the agricultural notification. The fact that the Council of State is already signaling that he feels it is difficult to satisfy the signals that have come from the Party of Advancement, I think to this extent is reasonable, because it is clear that in so far as the notification of agriculture should have been based on them, it might not have taken so long to present it either. Now, Randi Karlstrøm is trying to make a number out of placing the Right and the Advance Party in one booth in connection with this agricultural agreement. It is really uninteresting, because this year, in the context of the annual budget of the agricultural settlement, we have a cut of about 600 million, as far as I remember. kr, while the Progress Party has DKK 6 billion. So they're good on the safe side. The impression I'm left with, and as I think it might be nice to bring with me at least after this agricultural debate – if you can call it that – is that, to characterize the debate, I experience it as a little shadow boxing when the Storting discusses this. The debate, and in so far as the suspension is concerned, carries the bids for and the impact of a certain degree of frustration in the United Kingdom regarding the direct impact on agricultural policy. And when the representative Starrfelt says that the Workers' Party will, under strong doubt, be in favour of the agreement with one exception, it is a relatively strong signal, which I think the Council of State is wise to recall in connection with the work that is now taking place. Because there are relatively clear words for the money when it comes to Storting's view of all the developments we have in the agricultural agreement. If the Government were to submit a scheme such as: would go in the direction of what Left Kongshaug said, that instead of raising the bottom line should remove it, it is clear that then the government has a problem with regard to the Storting, with the explicit statements that stand in this setting. I don't think there's any kind of hearing or majority in Stortinget to establish a Norwegian industrial agriculture. That is why I also think that the Government and government parties should refrain as much as possible from characterising at least the Right's position as something in the direction of it. I would also like to say at the end that I hope that we get a balanced production in the agricultural notification for reasons of why we should have the level of transfer we have, and that we do not argue for a given sum based on premises that do not fully match the input. With regard to housing in the districts, one should be aware that today we have 1/5 of the number of full-time farmers we had up to 20-30 years ago. It should also take note.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e513	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 4143]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e527	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to a main intervention of up to 5 minutes on each group and on the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will suggest that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the posts allocated will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e534	A unanimous committee agrees that provision should be made for fishermen and fishermen to take on both political and organisational positions. The fishing industry is becoming increasingly knowledge-based and competence-based and is constantly under development. Therefore, it is also important that this profession is involved in increasing value creation – not only in this important industry but also in society in general. Such a social exposure must not be an obstacle to the day on which a person wishes to return to the fishing profession. The letter from the Council of State attached to the suspension mentions, for example, that in the regulation on access to cod fishing north of 62oN in 1999, the regulation of 4 December 1998 No. 1109, this has been done for the current year in such a way that the Directorate of Fisheries can exempt from the so-called activity requirement, i.e. the requirement for a certain quota utilisation in 1997 or 1998 in order to be able to participate in 1999, where the requirement has not been fulfilled because of trust in the fishing organisation or political responsibilities. The Directorate of Fisheries may further exempt from the conditions of access in its entirety where the owner of a fishing vessel has held a public office or office in a fishing organisation and those offices were the reason why the vessel owner was not allowed to participate in the quota system in that fishery from 1990 onwards. The Committee agrees that the Directorate should continue to be able to exempt from the activity requirement and that the practice of dispensing from the access conditions in their entirety must continue.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e547	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4145]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e561	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, we propose to the President that the opportunity be given for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e572	In the proposition that the Government sent to Stortinget, it was proposed to establish an aviation oversight and to transform the Aviation Agency into a State limited liability company. For the Workers' Party, the aviation sector and airports are an important part of the overall infrastructure of the transport sector, in line with road, ports and railways. The development of Norway depends on good transport solutions. Without a good transport offer, many policy objectives will be impossible to achieve. Knowing the importance of transport policy for business development and jobs and for maintaining a country-wide settlement, we need strong political and social governance of the transport sector. This is the background to the views of the Workers' Party in this matter. The proposal to establish an aviation oversight system from 1 January 2000 concludes all the parties in the Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party. The majority of the Committee considers that the tasks of the Air Safety Authority are as set out in the proposal. However, it is necessary to underline some important aspects. It is important for the new oversight to have access to qualified personnel in the establishment of the Air Safety Authority. In order to ensure that this is done, the Committee shall require the granting of the necessary powers. In this context, it will be necessary to consider whether it is appropriate to transfer responsibility for safety clearance from the Aviation Administration to the Air Safety Authority. It is important in the newly created Air Safety Authority that efficient resource use be made in order to limit the increase in charges. It is also necessary to demonstrate the accuracy of the work of manning the new supervision. Why is there a need to create a large number of new posts? This cannot be the result of the reorganisation alone. Air traffic controller services are deficient because there are too few air traffic controllers. We have to do something about this. We can't have a situation where debatable aircraft don't get to land and lighten up. That's how we have to put a stop to it. Now we have a good opportunity to do something about this. Involved parties – air traffic controllers, airlines, political authorities – need to get together to find a solution to the air traffic controller crew. Everything must be done to bring an end — a final end — to the lack of air traffic controllers, not only in the short term but also in the long term. All the achievements have to be disregarded, and I expect the Minister of Transport to take the necessary care of this and ensure that all parties discuss how the lack of air traffic controllers can find their solution. I read in Bergen's Official Journal that there are 610 people who want to be air traffic controllers. However, there are only 42 places of practice/learning places available. It must be possible to correct this. When the government proposal came to turn the Swedish Aviation Agency into a limited liability company, I was surprised. Management companies have previously been transformed into state limited liability companies. Earlier in the month, the Storting even decided to open up to merge and sell shares in Telenor and Telia. But can it be compared? No, it can't. Previous changes, e.g. in Telenor or NSB, there has been a background to changing business conditions – technological changes and competitive and market conditions at national and international level. Nothing like this has happened in relation to the responsibility of the Swedish Aviation Agency, where the State mainly owns the airports, and where there is no change either. It was therefore surprising that the central government proposed to weaken the political and social governance of the Aviation Agency and hence the aviation sector in Norway. Where aviation policy is based on a cross-subsidisation scheme whereby strong airports finance the operation of the economically weak, this mechanism is essential for the continuation of the airport structure with both tribal aerodromes and a large short-haul network. The working party believes that this scheme is essential to air transport in Norway. The working party strongly emphasises that this scheme continues and is subject to political governance, so that the economic profitability of the individual aerodromes is not decisive for the activity of the airports. In the view of the Workers' Party, this will not be dealt with equally well with by the Government's proposals. Increased use of non-state owned aerodromes will weaken the cross-subsidisation scheme. Therefore, it is necessary for the Government to assess how no State-owned aerodromes can contribute to the overall aviation system. For the Workers' Party, the following has been crucial: How to maintain political and social governance? How does the aviation sector use as a district policy instrument? How is cross-subsidisation policy managed? After a thorough assessment, the Labour Party did not find that these crucial factors were adequately addressed in the Government’s proposal. Moreover, when a majority of the board of the Swedish Aviation Agency cannot make a clear recommendation on the form of association, I am sure that the Government's proposal to make whether the Swedish Aviation Agency of a limited liability company is not correct. For this reason, I am pleased that the political parties of the Government in the Committee on Transport do not support the Government's proposal and that they agree that what is in the proposal does not provide sufficient justification for the need to weaken political and social governance in an important sector of transport. If we were to support the Government, we would have to gain for the Norwegian aviation sector – the sector would have to improve for the Norwegian community. I am pleased that the majority sends the matter back to the Government. However, we should note that the central parties want this matter back to the Stortinget in connection with the budget for the year 2000. It's -- well, notice -- after the municipal elections. Far in the back of my head, I have a nagging thought that after the election, the center parts change vision. But I choose to believe that this is not the case. Finally, the Council of State should not be surprised that the Committee is sending back central parts of the proposition. The Committee on Transport has pondered and thought, weighing the proposition and finding it too easily.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e604	Ministry of Transport in St.prp. No 66 propose the establishment of an aviation oversight system, known as the Air Safety Authority, from 1 January 2000 and the modification of the form of association of the Aviation Administration with effect from 1 January 2000. The Ministry also proposes to separate the vast majority of authority and oversight tasks from the commercial operations of the Aviation Agency. The reason for this is to avoid problems of stability and to allow external considerations to be weighted in the exercise of powers. The Progress Party considers it very useful to reorganise the state's aviation tasks. The purpose of such reorganisation must be to create perfectly clear and unambiguous responsibilities and a reasonable division of tasks. The Progress Party finds the partial reorganization and very unclear division of tasks proposed in St.prp. No 66, little satisfactory and little reworked. The party to the progress is particularly concerned that a public limited-liability company should be both a governmental body and at the same time be responsible for commercial activities. A separation of the purely supervisory tasks in a separate aviation oversight system according to the main model of the Competition Authority, the Labour Inspectorate, the Credit Authority, etc. is, however, a sensible proposal. As the Progress Party sees it, a sensible organisation in this area and in other similar areas of society would be as follows: The Ministry should be responsible for the formulation of laws, regulations and policy decisions and overall governance.A directorate shall be responsible for the day-to-day implementation, follow-up and implementation of the adopted policy, as well as for the preparation of detailed rules, rules and provisions for those who carry out an activity or produce goods and services in the sector, as well as for the treatment of concession and authorisation arrangements and for the determination of applications for them. Details on charging issues and any rules and arrangements for financing activities are also addressed by the Directorate.A department or a work shall be responsible for the performance of specific tasks and the production of goods and services, if any, either itself or through ownership of limited liability companies which are responsible for the purely commercial production of goods or services.The controlling activity shall be subject to independent supervision ensuring that all actors comply with laws, regulations and rules. Such supervision shall be made self-financing in the case of fees charged to the activities carried out in the area. Such a model would result in the addition to an aviation directorate of aviation, the production of services such as air traffic controller services and other government services, and the exercise of ownership functions for airport companies, etc., of parts of the Aviation Agency which are purely governmental or administrative activities. be added to the Aviation Agency as an establishment, while the oversight tasks are added to the proposed aviation oversight. Business activities such as: the operation of airport activities and other appropriate air navigation services should be organised as a public limited liability company. The issue of State-owned airports should be brought together in a company, for example: The State’s airports AS, or whether each airport should be a separate limited liability company or subsidiary of a holding company, must be investigated and evaluated in detail. The proposals in St. prp. No 66 does not meet the requirements of clarity in the division of responsibilities and the organisation of powers and business activities deemed necessary by the Progress Party. It may not be prudent or reasonable to place the exercise of powers in a public limited-liability company. While the establishment of an aviation oversight body is itself reasonable, it must be made clear that the main task must be to monitor compliance with the rules, regulations, authorisations and certificates adopted by the Directorate of Aviation. As the Progress Party sees it, such a necessary clear demarcation has not been made for the proposed aviation oversight. The Progress Party therefore considers that the reorganisation of oversight and authority in aviation should be carefully assessed and therefore supports the following proposals: ‘St. pp. No 66 Concerning the oversight and authority of aviation and the form of its connection to the Aviation Agency, it shall be returned to the Government.’» [[1998-99]] The Progress Party will subsidly support the proposal for the establishment of an aviation oversight and repatriation of the Cape. 4-7. Furthermore, the Progress Party will substantially assume that all authority tasks are effectively dissociated and that it must be the aviation oversight or the Ministry of Transport itself to represent the Norwegian authorities of international authority organisations. The Progress Party would stress that the establishment of two new businesses should not lead to an increase in total costs, but has noted that the Ministry of Transport is now considering the possibility of user-financing of authority tasks other than supervisory tasks. The Progress Party supports the principle that those who generate the need for supervision pay the costs. The progress batch will also point to the major lack of air traffic controllers and assume that measures are taken to remedy this situation, so that passengers release delays and cancellations for that reason. The airline failed to train air traffic controllers in 1993 when it was assessed that there was no need for more air traffic controllers. The Progress Party believes that this assessment was incorrect and that today’s air traffic difficulties could have been avoided if not the whole year’s coal had been omitted in 1993. The control centre in smoke, which controls air traffic over the east, has also lacked air traffic controllers, and the Progress Party is concerned that this deficiency also causes considerable delays in air traffic to be expected this summer. The Progress Party considers it natural that training of aviation personnel is also a matter for its education authorities in line with other categories of occupation, and asks the Government to transfer responsibility for the training of air traffic controllers to the education authorities. The Progress Party will also assume that the capacity of education is based on the demand for such training and not on a narrow assessment of needs. The Progress Party would argue that the question of using revenues from one airport for the subsidisation of another is a political issue that should be addressed by government and accumulation and administered by detailed rules laid down by an aviation directorate and not by a public limited liability company. Changes in an aeroplane structure and adaptation of an infrastructure should be implemented by the administrative authorities as a directorate and/or a works rather than a limited liability company. A system should also be established in which airports other than the State should also be able to operate, own and operate, and the exercise of powers on such issues should therefore not be added to a public limited liability company which is itself an operator and a potential competitor of other airports. The Progress Party refers to the fact that in the telecommunications sector and in railway operations a division of the former administrations Televerket and NSB has just been carried out, separating the business and competitive part, supervisory tasks, the exercise of powers, infrastructure and administration. Finally, I would like to refer to the proposition and take up the proposals of the Progress Party. Should the proposal against presumption fall, we will subsidize the committee's recommendation for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e650	Christopher Stensaker has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e653	The main theme of this case is the establishment of aviation oversight as a separate management body. It is scheduled to take place on 1 July. The purpose is to separate supervisory and regulatory tasks from the business part of the Aviation Agency, and what one wants to achieve is to separate the business from the exercise of powers. It is important that we avoid problems of stability and that external considerations be given weight to the exercise of authority. In several areas, developments have focused on a clearer distinction between government and supervisory production on the one hand and service production on the other. The principle of separation of the aviation inspection was already endorsed in the timing of the Norwegian Aviation Plan, Innst. S. No 228 for 1996-97. Unfortunately, what may raise awareness of this matter is not that we are now getting the air traffic control part. However, I would like to stress that, after all, this is essentially the proposition we are now dealing with. However, what has really received attention is the question of the organisation and association of the remaining Aviation Agency. The Government has proposed that the Swedish Aviation Agency be organised as a public limited liability company. In the proposition, they say something about the criteria they have emphasised in assessing the form of a company. These criteria include, inter alia: group coordination with Oslo Airport Gardermoen, which is already an AS. It surprises me that the Workers' Party does not see and assess this point at all. And then I must be allowed to repeat to the representative Falled that it will be exciting how the Workers' Party will assess this after the election. Furthermore, the Government points to the ability to adapt to demand and the ability to adapt to rapid change, commercial freedom, financial autonomy, human and corporate cultural conditions and, in particular, the need for societal governance. For the Christian People's Party, there are two important criteria for the selection of the form of organisation and association of the Aviation Agency. Firstly, the Aviation Agency must be able to offer a good offer to airlines and travellers. Secondly, the form of connection of the Aviation Agency — and that is at least equally important — must allow us to continue to pursue district and cohesion policies by using revenues from the most profitable aerodromes for necessary measures at the many airports that are not economically viable. The Ministry has pointed out in its proposal the possibilities inherent in the form of a public limited-liability company. This form of company gives greater commercial freedom to the Aviation Agency. The form of the public limited liability company clearly provides good opportunities for the use of the revenues from Oslo Airport Gardermoen AS for actions at airports in District Norway. That might be the most important argument. Furthermore, it is apparent from the proposal that the priorities should continue to be policy-led, including: by continuing the scheme with an aviation plan or, as we are soon to receive, a national transport plan, and further through so-called Section 10 plans. At the same time, the Ministry of Proposition has pointed out that this matter has been very time-consuming and labour-intensive. It is clear from the proposition that a number of important questions, such as: the company’s opening balance sheet has a plan to return to the 2000 budget. Furthermore, a large majority of the Committee has expressed a wish to know more about the organisation of the Aviation Agency, not just about the form of association, before deciding on the facts of the matter. Since there are still some open questions, and because the most important thing in this process is to separate the Air Safety Authority, we have come to the conclusion from the centre of the parties that we can postpone the decision on the final form of organisation and association of the Aviation Administration. We believe this is a question to which you can come back in connection with next year's budget, as the ministry had initially stated. On behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, I address the minority proposal that we agree on in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e679	Jan Sahl has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e682	St. pp. No 66 for 1998-99, several of which have been involved, deals with the establishment of the Air Safety Authority as a management body and the transformation of the Aviation Administration into an AS. Let me start with what the large majority agree with, namely to separate the Air Safety Authority as an ordinary management body from 1 January 2000. That makes sense to the right, among other things. to avoid any part of the instability conflicts mentioned in the suspension. However, in order to avoid such conflicts, it is not only sufficient to distinguish the tasks of different organisations but also to localise the different tasks and organisations in different departments. This is why the Right considers that the Air Safety Authority and the Aviation Agency should have different ministerial links. Therefore, the right has made proposals to place the Air Safety and Health Authority in the Ministry of Labour and Administration. It is not every day that parties who are part of a government vote for their own proposals. Today we experience it, and you can of course ask yourself, how is this possible? Most people would think that the government and the transport fraction should be able to talk so much together that such situations as we now experience did not occur. It all works, to say it a little bit mild, amateurish. The right has noticed that in several areas of the transport sector there are strange forms of communication between the centre fraction of the Transport Committee and the Government of the Council of State. In this context, I refer to the debate that is taking place in the media between the Council of State and representatives of the Centre, linked to road appropriations. I'm actually waiting excitedly for the next act in that play. Now this kind of double communication in politics is well known. It is worth noting that opinions on increased investment in transport come two months before a municipal election. Corresponding signals also came in the spring of 1997. That time it was also two months for a choice. After the election, the promises of increased bets on traffic were forgotten and gone. There may therefore be reason to take the new promises with a not so tiny pinch of salt. So back to the matter itself. In the Right's view, the Council of State has provided clear and straightforward justification for the Government's wish to convert the Aviation Agency into an AS company. On the right, most of the arguments that we believe are both factual and, as I said, reasonable. I'm not going to repeat all the arguments here, but relationships related to faster market adaptation, the relationship with Oslo Airport AS, the possibility of debt financing in order to achieve more efficient deployment of the infrastructure related to our airports, etc., are good grounds for transforming the Aviation Agency into a public limited liability company. We also believe that the very scheme we have with the concession, which has been mentioned, can be very useful in getting exactly the same air traffic management in Norway as we have today. We see no deterioration associated with the new organization. But here, the central government doesn't get any support from its own in the Storting. The fact that the Workers' Party and SV will not support an AS proposal is less to wonder about. It's actually a little story for it, and that's also the reason for it earlier in the Workers' Party's proposals. But the fact that the Progress Party is now with the two left-wing parties in defence of the excellence of the inefficient management company is more than surprising. It could be a good idea to clarify what the Progress Party believes in this matter. When you look at the majority, and it's complex, I see that there's a solid majority that the matter should go back to the government. So there is a minority who want the matter to be reconsidered, if necessary. As I see the Progress Party, they are in the majority who say that the transformation of the Aviation Agency into AS is a dead matter, and I ask the Progress Party to clarify its position in the Chamber, because I think it will be very important for the further work. Right-wing promote the proposals that we believe are the right ones, and vote for what we think is right. That is why, of course, the Right Government's proposal promotes. So a few words about the air traffic controllers. I just want to say from this speaker that I perceive that there is a broad consensus in the committee that now something has to be done about this problem. I cannot say here from the Chair how this solution should be, but I would like to say to the Council of State that we will give full support from the Right to the measures he will take to resolve this problem that runs Norwegian aviation like a swamp. These measures, if they are also a bit tough at the edge, will receive Right-wing support. If our and the Government's original proposal were to fall, the Right will vote in favour of the proposal that opens up a new assessment with a view to transforming into AS. The right considers that the proposals of the centre parties – at least in words – involve greater possibilities than the II vote, and I ask that the voting be put up so that the right party is given the opportunity to vote as I have now outlined.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e710	In my article I will keep myself to mention the matters that are for handling, and that are signed up in St. prp. No 66, and I don't want to go into other areas of transport policy. So far, the Swedish Aviation Agency has been our state's professional body in all civil aviation matters and also an important element of total defence. Today, the Aviation Agency is responding to society’s need for an organised aviation system under political governance. It is the Swedish Aviation Agency that is responsible for maintaining the security of the aviation system. Today, the Authority is an important part of its tasks. The second main part of the tasks is the planning and development of aviation infrastructure and the provision of services to airlines and other users. The Central Party considers it entirely natural that the oversight activities are separated from the rest of the Aviation Agency’s tasks and that there will be an air traffic control body that will be responsible for all the oversight tasks. This will provide a clean and natural sharing of the tasks currently assigned to the Aviation Agency. In this context, I would like to stress, as a group of committees has said in the comments, that the new Air Safety Authority must be given the necessary powers to ensure access to qualified personnel. At the same time, the Committee stated that this work should be conducted in a timely manner. The tasks that remain after the establishment of the Air Safety Authority remain in the future Aviation Agency. Through the work on this matter, it has been made clear through hearings and recordings that there are many who have opinions about the organisation of the Aviation Agency. The very many points are that one should consider the internal organisation of the Aviation Agency. Many think that changes should be made to the organisation, but there are not so many of those I have talked to or received information from, who think that the desire for organisational change will be met by changing the form of association of the Aviation Agency. The proposition culminates in a proposal to transform the Swedish Aviation Agency into a public limited-liability company. As a natural follow-up to this, the proposition emphasises the arguments used to turn the Swedish Aviation Agency into state limited liability companies. From the Center Party's side, we don't want to take a position on the airline's current form of connection. We think it should first lead to an assessment of the internal organisation and the solution of the task, and then the Stortinge may decide at a later stage on the form of association. On the basis of this, I see no reason to go into any argument for one or the other form of connection.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e725	Oddvard Nilsen gets the word out of line to make suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e729	I'm sorry. I forgot to put forward our suggestions, and will do so.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e734	Oddvard Nilsen has put forward the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e737	This case has two main ingredients. One is currant, the other is embarrassing. First, a few words about the curative — the separation of the Air Traffic Inspection of an Air Traffic Inspectorate which is no longer part of the Aviation Agency. It has been a wish for a long time, including from the Committee on Transport. I said it was a curative matter, but it's not completely curative. We are facing major increases in the cost of supervisory tasks and, if they are to be maritime funding, there is a risk of significant increases in fees and charges. Several people have warned against it, but we also have to partly count on it. One of the reasons is the deregulation of the market. It pop up companies that want to try out, companies that don't have a wide range of professional environments and experience. It requires enhanced inspection. Similarly, concessions are given to foreign companies, and sails if we have international rules, I think it would be wise to believe that quality assurance is equally good in all countries. It is important then to be a little measured, among other things. in relation to whom an ‘open cloud agreement’ is to be concluded. This means the need for increased inspection, because we need to have the highest level of safety within aviation in our country. But then looked at the embarrassing, namely the proposal to convert the Air Force into a limited liability company. The task of the Swedish Aviation Agency is to build and operate aerodromes — infrastructure. The justification is extremely thin, syltin' thin. One reason indicated is that the Aviation Agency is already a maritime financing agency today. Ida, it would also have been the Road Directorate, and so, if it got the car charges, yes, only part of them. But would it be a good idea to make the Road Directorate an AS – and no longer a part of the state budget? Was the Road Directorate to give priority to maritime investment and maintenance when they were maritime funding? No, no, no. Another reason is that the Board of Directors of the Aviation Agency has a difficult role because the budget is determined by the Stortinget and that the Ministry has the right of instruction. Excuse me, but the Swedish Aviation Agency and the airport network we have here in the country are not for the benefit of the board. It's the opposite. And because it's basic infrastructure, it's priorities with societal implications, the Aviation Agency's budget must be part of the Stortingen budget and the Ministry must have the right of instruction. It's in the proposition: «The air carrier as its own company will have greater freedom to dispose of the group's total resources.» Yes, will we? Do we want them to have that freedom, or are we going to do it? I think it's seaworthy that we are, because it's not a business question whether we're going to upgrade the regional airports or whether we're going to build despatch buildings and terminals for passengers to go dry on board large airports. That is a political priority issue. It may be a question of district policy, among other things, and I believe that the aviation company as a limited liability company will not think of district policy. They're going to think business economy. This should be our responsibility. I think it's completely incomprehensible that such a proposal could come from a center government. Yes, I believe that sailing a right-wing government would stagger to make such a proposal. Now the Right Government supports the proposal, and they can do that safely because it does not have a majority. The representative Oddvard Nilsen chooses, of course, I am convinced, when he can say that the Right is the only party that supports the Government. But I am convinced that he is just as happy that he does not get a majority in favour of the proposal, because I believe that he believes that this is an important infrastructure which should be given political priority. So he can enjoy himself twice today – he can support the Government, and be happy that he does not get a majority for it. The Soul Advancement Party realizes that this is going too far. And I'm not surprised, unlike the representative Nilsen, because I was at a meeting where I heard the leader of the Progress Party, Carl I. Hagen, say that infrastructure is a social responsibility, and he used road networks, telecommunications networks, Statnett, etc. as an example that such things should be owned and held responsible by the State. So I'm not surprised that the Progress Party believes that airports in many ways are a state responsibility. Nor am I surprised that the Right votes and is happy that they do not get a majority. The proposal ended in an aviation policy crash landing at high light day. They needed political air traffic controllers in this government. But I'm very pleased that the central parties don't follow up the government proposal, sail if they tried to spray it down by saying they hadn't taken their stand yet. I believe that this proposal is buried. I therefore hope that we will not see it again, neither from this government nor from other governments. And I'll warn you against trying to make this part of the budget for the harvest, for the last autumn, the central government had to privatize Telenor to get a budget settlement. [[President clubs]] What to do this year and onwards [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e774	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e777	It seems that today we can decide to separate the vast majority of authority and oversight tasks from the business operations of the Aviation Agency. The new Air Safety Authority shall oversee the operations of the Aviation Agency. It will also be largely delegated to all aviation authorities, including: obtain the approval authority for the determination of approach and exit routes, except where these are considered to be of a particularly noise-preventive nature. Extensive international work is being carried out both to harmonise requirements for aeroplanes and aerodromes and to set standards of environmental policy significance. The Ministry will continue to have overall coordination responsibility for these issues. The main post-sharing tasks of the Swedish Aviation Agency will be to plan, develop, own and operate airports and provide airport and aerodrome services. The air carrier must have a concession for each individual airport. Here, conditions will be set for operation, technical/operational standard in relation to the flight route operations assumed to be maintained on site. All parties agree on this, except for the Advance Party. What has, on the other hand, been the subject of debate is the form of association of the Aviation Agency. Here, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left want to postpone this issue until the fall in order to see it in the context of an assessment of further information. Such an assessment should be based on the same criteria as those underlying the Ministry's assessment in this case. This relates in particular to the possibility of an organisation that will lead to predictable operations, good cross-subsidies and the ability to move quickly. I hope, as opposed to the representative from SV, that the Government will return with this matter to the autumn, with a form of association that could address the challenges facing the Aviation Agency, especially in the case of cross-subsidisation from Gardermoen to other airports.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e792	The representative of the Fall has explained in an excellent way the views of the Workers' Party, so I don't need to attach any further comments to it, but just refer to her posts. I just want to comment on a few points that emerged in the debate – one from the representative Nilsen, who showed that what is happening today is quite eye-catching. Yes, it is – in two contexts. It is alarming that a case is returned with the support of the government parties, but the matter is also alarming in a different way and beyond: it is alarming that this government is promoting such a proposal. That's the most eye-catching thing, precisely because of that, among other things. may result in less focus in the context of regional policy, as the representative of the Fallet was concerned. Let it be clear: the Labour Party has taken its position and the Workers' Party is opposed to converting the Aviation Agency into a limited liability company. I feel the need to say that because the representative of Sahl could give the impression that the Workers' Party, as a result of the return, did not have a position on the matter. That's not right. In contrast to the Christian People's Party, it's like this in the Workers' Party that we tend to have the same position both before and after elections, so I can reassure the representative Sahl that this position is firm, it's taken, and it's going to stand firm both before and after the election. However, I think it is interesting that the government parties in their proposal today are open to return, but with very important words spoken – and that is that it says: ‘The government may ask for a return’. I have to point out that in that proposal, too, there is full opening for the Council of State in order not to come back to the Stortinget, and he has with the full coverage also from his own fraction and his own parties in the Storinget at voting today in order not to come back. I can see no reason why the Council of State should feel no need to re-promote this matter, and would give the mild advice that he might make use of the ‘if any’ contained in that proposal. Finally, let me stress that if you are opposed to transforming the Swedish Aviation Agency into a limited company, that does not mean that you are against conversion into the Swedish Aviation Agency. Several speakers have pointed out that significant issues can be raised in the use of resources in the sector and that there is a need to review the activities of the Aviation Agency. I assume that the Council of State is going to be done, regardless of what kind of organisation the Swedish Aviation Agency is going to have.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e805	Before I start my ordinary post, I would like to remind you that the premise in this case has been made by other governments long before this, and it will affect the final result when it had to happen. Int. S. No 226 The majority of the Committee endorses the Government’s proposal to separate the oversight and authority functions of the Aviation Agency from business operations today and to establish the Air Safety Authority from the next year’s turn of the year. When the Progress Party will subsidize the proposal, the Committee stands united behind the motion for a resolution. Thereafter, the main task of the Aviation Agency — irrespective of the form of association issue — will be to plan, develop, own and operate airports and airport facilities on a commercial basis, and to provide airport and air navigation services for the benefit of users and travellers. The development of increased competition in the transport sector in Norway and internationally imposes clear role-sharing and professional behaviour in civil aviation management. I am therefore pleased with the approval of the Stortinge. The work on setting up the Air Safety Authority from 1 January 2000 will be continued thereafter, and the Stortinget will receive proposals for budgetary procedure in a regular manner. I have noticed that the members of the Progress Party in the Committee consider that the proposals, both in the context of the aviation authorities and in the context of the company, do not meet the requirements for clarity in the division and organisation of responsibilities, and that it cannot be appropriate to place the exercise of authority to a public limited-liability company. This must be due to a manifest misunderstanding. The Ministry proposes in the Proposition section. 2.4 Clearly and unambiguously distinguishing the functions of the Authority and the Authority from the business operations currently performed by the Aviation Agency. Furthermore, the following quotations may be made: ‘A new aviation oversight will thus also have authority and supervision over the facilities and activities of the Aviation Agency, aerodromes, navigation and communication facilities, and in relation to the production of air navigation and air traffic services, etc.’.» It is therefore not the public limited liability company that is intended for the exercise of its powers. I take note that the majority of the Committee proposes to send out Chapters 4 to 7 of the Proposition on the form of association of the Aviation Agency – i.e. after the separation of supervisory and authority functions – back to the Government. At the same time, I note that the premises for the proposals from the Labour Party and the SV and from the Progress Party are quite different. I have noticed that the members of the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left are asking the Government to return to the organisational form and form of association in connection with the 2000 budget. The government will have to come back to the matter in the budget proposal for 2000. In any case, the aviation works of the future will not be able to be as before after the separation of the Air Safety Authority. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the lack of a decision in principle could now make it difficult to implement any change in the form of connection for the Aviation Agency from the coming year. I show you, among other things: that the proposal for a public limited-liability company, or any other form of company, requires that the air carrier be granted a concession to own and operate airports and that the concession treatment requires specific procedures and processing time. Furthermore, all the main points identified by the rapporteur have been considered in the proposal itself and in the societal governance challenges. I hereby record that some chapters could be returned to the Government of a majority in the Chamber, but with far different premises.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e840	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e843	Does not the Council of State, Mr Færvoll, know who the formal responsibility for the Aviation Agency is today? Now it is time for this Council of States to take responsibility for its proposals. Now this state council must stop hiding in the skirts of others. Or isn't the current Minister of Transport reading the propositions he's making to the Storting before they get here? This goes over all the dusty evenings! The Workers' Party is concerned with geographical equality – some people have to take responsibility for rural policy in the country. The representative Sahl is a member of the same party as the Minister of Transport, and so the Christian People's Party has sent the proposition back. If the Council of State asks why, it is certain that he can contact his own members of the Committee on Transport. The working party thinks this is a thin proposition, and it also seems more in the committee. However, the Workers' Party supports the Government in relation to the Air Traffic Supervision. But I wonder why the Council of State believes it is necessary for just 120 employees in the first year. Why exactly 120? In addition, can the Council of State confirm that this increase in staff does not result in a substantial increase in fees for the airlines and thus passengers?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e858	The first part of the rapporteur's statement did not understand the Council of State and cannot therefore comment or confirm it. The only thing I can confirm is that the Council of States is going through all the propositions and messages before they go to the Storting. This one I've been through carefully, I'm in for the point for the point, and I know exactly what it says. I cannot confirm that there will be no increased charges. I cannot confirm that I have the final solution to the relationship between the Aviation Administration and the Air Safety Authority. That's why the Government has announced that it must come back to the opening balance sheet and budgets for them for the autumn. That's why it was very important for the Government to get signals now about how to organize the rest of the Aviation Agency. We do not get that message today, as far as I can see, because the Workers' Party sends the matter back with notice that it will be buried. The progress party sends it back with a message that it should return. And what government parties have done is signal that this needs to be further investigated and the concrete budgetary implications of it coming on the table for the autumn. That's why I've had to conclude that if II is adopted, the premises are so explosive that they signal that we're going in two different directions. This State Council has carefully assessed the cross-subsidisation and its impact. In fact, the Council of State sees no other practical solution today to maintain the cross-subsidy between Oslo Airport A/S – which a previous government and this Stortinget has decided to be a limited company – and the management company of the Swedish Aviation Agency, rather than to transform the Swedish Aviation Agency into a company form. Then I can take out group contributions, and then I can continue cross-subsidisation, which is going to be difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e867	In a previous article, a question about the Right considered that the conversion to an AS is correct. Of course, Right means it. In fact, it is also true that we believe that any government is promoting the proposals that they consider to be in favour of the matter under consideration. When the central government has promoted this proposal, we take it for granted that they have meant it, and it also supports what goes on the right, that we have also previously thought that this is a sensible way to do it. But then there was this with the relationship between the Council of State and – let me say – the members of the Government of the Grand Duchy, and the decision we're going to make here today. The council said – and now I quote – that he had gone “closely through”, “point-by-point”, this proposition. This must mean that the Council of State agrees with everything that it says. Then my question is to the Council of State: can he then explain why his own members send the matter back?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e877	The Council of State has taken the view that the Government fraction of the Storting has referred to what the Government itself has written in its proposal, that there are some unresolved questions related to manning, related to budgetary effects and related to any opening balance sheet, which can only be clarified in the budget for next year. That's why it's natural to come back to this then. I look at this proposal quite differently from the funeral proposal presented by the Workers' Party and SV. I will, when the harvest comes, regardless of today's decision, and the Government will have to present, whatever decision it takes today, a budget statement for the Stortinget that goes on the Air Safety Authority and the rest of the aviation industry. We have to do that, as a result of the budget regulation. Then we also need to clarify how the form of organisation should be. If it's a management company, we have one starting point, it becomes a state enterprise, another, it becomes a state limited liability company, the third. In other words, the decision taken in this context has budgetary implications. A management company – which cannot become like today, because it changes its character in the separation of aviation oversight – will have to follow the routines of the State and the State budget. This means bonds in a completely different way in terms of access to finance, and in terms of access to borrowing — even borrowing to finance profitable investments. There is already a significant obstacle.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e886	I would like to follow up the first question from Eirin Fallet. Before the Council of State began its completed manuscript, he made some remarks that the premise for this proposition had been laid down by previous governments, and for those who heard the whole sequence of openings, it was as if the Council of State said: I have, in fact, formally promoted this proposition, but the main responsibility for it lies with the previous governments, who have done all the work, and really it is not my fault! I could imagine asking the Council of State: what was the purpose of the opening sequence that the premises were made by the previous governments? What was the purpose of expressing it, if it wasn't to try to reduce its own responsibility and transfer it to previous governments? Then the Council of State then says to the question that he has not even received the agreement of his own party traps in the Storting: it is clear that there are certain things to come back to, such as opening balance sheet and budgetary consequences and such things. But it seems to me that the Council of State and the Department have it all the time! It's actually in the proposition and in the technical summary in the setting. If there's the problem for the government parties here in Stortinget, there's some curl in the communication between the government council and the government parties. Because everyone has been familiar with it all along, and it knew the Council of State when he, on behalf of the Government, made this proposition. Then I would like to ask: can he not really say that the proposal for Decision II contains anything other than that the Storting sends the matter back to the Government so that it will start again with this work? That's what's said, nothing else. The proposal of the three government parties is a nullity of its content.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e899	With regard to the Workers' Party and the SV's proposal, which is the setting's II, Karl Eirik Schjött-Pedersen has provided the reasons and shown where they stand in this context – that they do not want the case to be brought back. I'm not spending any more time on that reason. I am not of those state councils that will ever try to evade my responsibility or blame others. Therefore, my first statement cannot be read as other than that here there has been a previous process over a long time, where we are today. That process really started with the formation of Oslo Airport as a axis company, as a separate company where the staff from Fornebu, from Gardermoen etc. were transferred to that structure. A limited liability company is acting in accordance with the provisions of the Share Act. You take dividends from them. If the Council of State is to take dividends from Oslo Airport equivalent to what we took from Fornebu in the last year, the Council of State has to charge 400 pst. dividends per year; years. It is not technically correct to do so. Then it is an advantage to make group contributions between parent and subsidiary. That is the explanation of what has happened before, and then this collapse has already signalled the connection to the separation of the Air Safety Authority in the autumn. In other words, I'm following up on what Stortinget has previously proposed as a precursor. That's what can be read from the introduction to my article.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e906	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e911	The representative Oddvard Nilsen wondered if the Progress Party was opposed to AS, and of course we are not. What we believe is that an AS should not be an authority body and at the same time stand for business activities. There has to be a distinction there. What the Progress Party believes is that one should have a third, where the department stands for the design of the laws and regulations, and where one has a directorate responsible for the daily follow-up, and an agency or a work – which may be an AS – that produces goods and services, either itself or through ownership in other companies. The issue of State-owned airports should be brought together into one company – for example: The State’s airports – or whether each airport should be a separate limited liability company, must be further investigated and not made in the proposition. Nor do I believe that the proposition meets the requirements for clarity, division of responsibilities, tasks of authority and business that we believe are necessary. It may not be prudent or reasonable to place the exercise of the powers of a public limited-liability company. We also claim that the issue of revenues from one airport should be used for subsidising another, is a political issue and should be addressed here. It should be managed by government and accumulation and administered in accordance with detailed rules laid down by an aviation directorate and not a public limited liability company. Changes in the aeroplane structure and infrastructure adaptation should be implemented by administrative authorities, as a directorate. We want to refer to our comments in the setting, and of course we want the matter returned to Stortinget in a more concrete and reworked form.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e922	First of all, a small remark to everyone who is up here and warns against increased charges, especially at the Air Safety Authority. I would like to say that you should also have in mind the increased problems that come, among other things. by deregulation of aviation and by not being so concerned with costs that safety is forgotten. But the reason I went up here, is that after hearing the Council of State and representatives of the Centre Parties, my confusion has become almost total. The Council of State says that what matters to the Government is to get a principle decision today. Then I read the proposal from the centre parties, where it says the following: ‘Where appropriate, the Government requests’ — where appropriate — ‘return to the form of organisation and form of association of the Aviation Agency in the context of the 2000 budget’. It suggests the center parties. They do not propose a principle decision on the form of organisation and association today. But when the Council of State is going to explain it, he says that what you're going to get back to the harvest is opening balance, budgetary consequences and stuff. No, the proposal from the centre parties states that, if necessary, you should return to the form of organisation and form of association for the harvest – that is, not a decision of principle. That is why the representative Jorunn Ringstad also said that since they did not take a position on it, she would not touch it in her post. That's why she's just talking about the Air Safety Authority, and not about the form of the Air Safety Agency's organisation. I would ask that this be clarified before this debate is over, who is right here. Have the centre parties, in their proposal, defined the form of organisation – i.e. AS – or do they keep it open until the autumn, when they come back to it, if necessary? Or is it, as I understand it, that you do not take a stand today? The Council of State then misinterpreted it, because that means that only the Right in this room is proposing a principle decision today. The Labour Party and SV have said that we are in principle against AS. We don't say no to that, but we're against AS. So one could say that the Workers' Party and SV have taken their basic position on the AS form, and the Right has taken their basic position in which they support the Government's proposal. But I want a clarification: what do the center parties actually mean? Do they mean what the Council of State said, or what the representatives of the central parties have formulated in the proposal, and said from this pulpit?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e942	It is not often that I take part in debates on areas where I have previously had a responsibility as the Council of State, but now I feel a strong need to do so. When the Council of State says that this work on transforming the Aviation Agency into AS has been going on for a long, long time, he must probably go back more than one and two years, and also into the time I was responsible for this area. I just want to say that trying to shift responsibility on previous governments in that way, I thought the Council of State of Færvoll should stick too well. One should, in fact, take responsibility for what one promotes himself, completely and completely. Then it is that the relationship between Oslo Airport Gardermoen AS and the Aviation Administration was assessed by the time Oslo Airport Gardermoen was shipped as a limited liability company, but one does not need to transform the Aviation Administration into AS for that reason. It is clear that it is easier to interact between two limited liability companies than between one limited liability company and one management company, but it is well possible to address those challenges. I've been with and around many management companies and directorates to companies, but I should honestly admit that I don't see one case where the foundation to make it is as weak as for the Swedish Aviation Agency. They're not in competition with anyone – with a small exception, but it's so small that it's not worth anything. I think of the Aviation Agency as a pure infrastructure company in line with the State Road Administration. I have not heard any reason to turn the State Roadway into a limited liability company, nor is there any reason to convert the Swedish Aviation Agency into a limited liability company. The solution to that – which is used as a basis – can be found without going to that step, so that we can still have cross-subsidies between the different airports to a large extent.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e953	The representative Opseth may not have heard what I started with. I was not talking about the transformation of the Swedish Aviation Agency into AS over a long time, I was talking about the transformation of Oslo Airport into AS, which was done by former governments. I assume that the Minutes can show that. There's probably a lot of water in the ocean, and there's probably some sort of reorganization lately, also with the support of the representative Opseth in this room in terms of reorganization at the point where there's consensus today. And then, in that situation, we have to consider in concrete terms how we can make the most of what is left. That's what this state council has been trying to provide. He's even from District Norway, he's himself been out to find solutions that can benefit everyone. And to the Progress Party, I have to say again, as I said instead, read point 2.4 of the proposition. All of these questions have been re-examined, as stated in the comments. As for the reasons given by the government parties, in my view there is no reason to doubt that they say we will come back to this question in relation to the budget for the harvest. The Council of State has then said in Stortinget, in connection with the majority proposal, that it must then be aware that a new aviation agency needs concessions to operate the airports, the individual airport. With such a tight time frame, it will not be possible, in the opinion of the Council of State, to enter port on 1 January 2000 with concessional and practical arrangements. It seemed to the Council of State that it was right to inform the Storting about. It does not play a decisive role in the decision that Stortinget had to take, but it could later be claimed that the Council of State had not fully informed the Stortinge of the consequences of the decisions that were taken, if he had not mentioned this exactly. There is a need to change the form of a company through a very comprehensive procedure – concession treatment and permission treatment. The Council of State does not feel that what is available from the governmental parties is in any way in conflict with what the Government has said in the proposition. It's the government that's behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e964	I have to say that I am a little surprised at the progress of the party in this matter. Representatives of the Progress Party have today said that they want the Government to return to its organisational and liaison form later on. I must then be allowed to draw attention to two of the proposals. One is that the question of the changed form of connection should be returned to the Government. This has been announced by the Progress Party that they should vote in favour. Then we have another proposal where it says: ‘The Government is asked to return, where appropriate, to the form of organisation and form of association of the Aviation Agency in the context of the 2000 budget.’ That is, as far as I can remember, exactly what the Progress Party said from this pulpit. This has been announced by the Progress Party that they will vote against. I have to say I'm a little surprised at this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e980	The Christian People's Party is not in doubt that this matter has a past, and that this past is part of the decisions to be made in the present. One of the main points that we wanted to have a little more time to assess this matter was, among other things, that. to try to get out of the Workers' Party how they might benefit from this cross-subsidy when they do not want to convert the Aviation Agency into an AS. The representative Opseth was on the pulpit and repeated a good deal of the same. He said that it is well possible to deal with this difference. But the question is how to deal with this difference. It's one of the things that makes us want to spend time with the budget to look at what the Labour Party's alternative to this case is, because for us, it's essentially the district policy issues that are at the centre here. How are we going to get the funds that it is possible to get in order to also keep the airports in the country that we know are not business-economically profitable? Then there must be no doubt that we expect the Government to come back to this in connection with the budget, and that we will then take a final position on the form of association.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e997	Oddvard Nilsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1000	This debate becomes a little strange as it progresses. The Council of State goes to the pulpit and defends the proposition with everything he has of arguments, every point points to the fact that everything that his own party traps have used to argue for the postponement is in the proposition. Then you're left with the confusing impression: what's in this proposition that's going to change? What is the Council of State's opinion that is wrong, to which he may come back? I think, unfortunately, that the explanation is so simple that here there is a disagreement in the government fraction – briefly. You have not been able to come to an agreement, and then you have had to do this canoeing process here in the Storting. It's very embarrassing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1007	Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen has spoken twice before in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1010	Like Mr Nilsen, I note that this is an interesting debate. I also felt this time the need to comment, sir. Sahl's articles. There's not going to be any fixed habit, but there may be a need to solve some things. The representative, Sahl, clearly felt that he needed to clarify how to obtain cross-subsidies without having the Swedish Aviation Agency as a limited liability company. If it were to be a crucial issue, first of all, you had to ask the basic question: is it impossible to make dividends if you are not a limited liability company? Of course it's possible. Of course, it is possible for the Swedish Aviation Agency to charge dividends from Oslo Airport, even if the Swedish Aviation Agency is not a limited liability company. That's pretty obvious. The second is that this issue has, of course, been discussed and assessed by the establishment of Oslo Airport as a share company, and satisfactory answers have been found, as the representative Opseth was also involved in a previous post. So that solution would be reasonably clear to see. Then I registered that the Council of State in its last post made it clear that he had no problems with the proposals of the government parties in the Chamber today, and that it was really the Government's proposal that was put forward here. I registered that the representative Jorunn Ringstad in his interesting post earlier today made it clear, as a conclusion, that she and the Zenterpartie do not take a position on the issue of a limited liability company or not. It was clearly and unambiguously expressed in that article. And that is what is the natural conclusion of the proposal made by the government parties. The Christian People's Party does not take a stand, the Center Party does not take a stand, and the Left does not take a stand. That's not how the government can give the impression that you really agree with what's in the proposition, and then you just have to elaborate it more. You don't take a real stand. Obviously, then, the Council of State is somewhat concerned about – let's say – the consequences of not being clarified in terms of transformation. Yes, I assume that the Council of State assumes that the Aviation Administration will continue in its present form until the Storting should have made a different decision, and I repeat what I said instead: I think the Council of State makes a lot of sense using it 'if necessary', which is also in his own party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1021	Inge Myrvoll has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1024	There's a danger that I have to pick up the rest of the group that has speaking time left, if you want to clarify everything here. I'm also happy to see the minutes. I look forward to it, because I understood the Council of States in the same way as the representative Opseth. We'll check that when that time comes. So the Council of State also said to come back to this question, and now I interpret him as saying that ‘this question’ is not the question of the opening balance sheet or the budgetary implications, but that it was the very form of organisation and the form of association to be returned to ‘if appropriate’, as it says in the proposal, ‘if appropriate’. But then I would say that reorganising such an important activity as the Aviation Agency is not a matter of budgetary procedure. It is a case that requires a completely different comprehensive treatment, such as when Telenor became AS, Posten became BA, NSB became BA, or when someone is going to merge or sub-privatize. There is nothing that can be dealt with in budgetary terms. I'd like to ask you to look at it ‘if any’, and if you're going to have it as a proposal – if the Council of State is going to have it as a proposal, he should present it as a matter of his own. I'm sorry about the use of you, President!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1037	It's got to go in the name of the game.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1040	Sahl was a bit concerned with the Workers' Party's assessment of the conversion into a limited liability company. In fact, the Workers' Party sees no reason to turn the Aviation Agency into an AS. We are pleased with the way we can cross-subsidize today for reasons of geographical equality in our country. It is also the case – if the President can pass this on to the representative Sahl – that if Oslo Airport Gardermoen is a problem like AS up there, it is possible to re-enter Oslo Airport Gardermoen in the Swedish Aviation Agency. There's no problem. But it actually works well today, and that is what must be the important thing, that we can have a geographical diversity in our country and that everyone can get a good offer where they live.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1047	May I first remind the case rapporteur that the Gardermoen has been opened up and put into service and has not yet contributed anything in cross-subsidisation context, and on the basis of the usual share dividend model it does not seem to be able to contribute anything in a good time. It is therefore also a response to Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen. I said clearly that there is no problem in collecting ordinary dividends, but if I am going to go up to the same level as what we took out last year just at Fornebu, I have to take 400 pst. dividends on the shares of Gardermoen. It is therefore quite correct, as Eirin Faldet now suggests: it has been assessed whether it is reasonable and possible to change the structure of Oslo Airport Gardermoen AS. According to the Council of State, it is not reasonable to have a loan burden of approx. 10 billion kroner with what's into the structure of the Gardermo now. That's why you have chosen to look at other solutions. Then the Council of State repeats that he sees it this way – if the proposals of the government parties get a majority – that no position has been taken on the organisational model, and that it will then come back to this in connection with the presentation by the Government of the other necessary budget figures in order to be able to draw a conclusion to the harvest. This is what has been announced in the Government's own proposal. The council has not said that there is any error in the proposition. On the contrary, he has said that if you want to, the basis for making a decision is there. There are no errors, but there are always some who might want more investigations, further investigations. That is what I see in the proposals of the Progress Party. But when the Progress Party relies on the Labour Party's and SV's II proposals, and perhaps gives it a majority tonight, it has been built on the premises of the case rapporteur and by the representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt- Pedersen that in terms of the organisational structure and the form of association of the Aviation Agency, this should be buried for the future. And then I assume that everyone is aware that today's system in any case cannot continue without changes, as even the management company of the Aviation Agency, the rest of the Aviation Agency, must have a different structure after the separation of the Air Traffic Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1054	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[See page 4146]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1068	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1077	The staging proposition we're dealing with now contains a lot of issues. Initially, I would like to show that, among other things, are provided with several roadways affected by toll financing in some way. In this context, there is partly local disagreement on some elements of the implementation of the toll financing scheme in several cases. The majority of the Committee therefore emphasises that, as a primary principle, there should be local consensus before toll financing issues are submitted to the Stortinget. This is a principle that needs to be taken into account when dealing with such issues. Furthermore, emphasis is placed on the establishment of equitable collection systems for users, but also on the establishment of a system that provides the necessary revenue base in relation to the financing plans. I will comment on some of the specific issues that lie in the proposition. With regard to the expansion of the toll stations in Kristiansand, it was already in the cards that this expansion could come when the Stortinget agreed that the E18 in Kristiansand could be financed. The majority of the Committee joins this extension, although part of the road users passing the bombs will not use the new road systems directly. The justification is, among other things, this improves the accessibility of those entering the centre and the reduction of traffic on the lateral network, which is positive for the living environment. I am also pleased that we can now move on with the construction of E134 against Kongsberg. The size has previously favoured this advance which is now being added up to. With regard to the case of partial toll financing of the road systems at the Hareid centre, I must admit with my heart that I personally had long doubts as to whether this is the right solution, primarily on the grounds that this could lead to a race of such cases. Because around the country, there are many centres that need to improve traffic conditions. I think it's important that we have such thoughts in our head. At least we can't get a system where we have bombings around every place in the country. In this context, the majority emphasise the importance of ensuring the quality of the cost estimate of this specific project before signing the contract and starting construction. As regards the use of excess mass from the Triangle connection to the sub-project new Rv 546 Luftarøy - Hundvåkøy in the Austevoll municipality of Hordaland, the entire committee agrees that this makes sense. The government will not be advised to use tolls to cover the costs of this movement and the interpretation of the masses. The reason is that the Government asks questions as to whether this road link will actually be realised. This finds the majority, the Labour Party and the Right, strange. New Rv 546 is actually mentioned in the Roadmap for the period 1998-2007, where the project is subject to partial toll financing. On the basis of this and the fact that there is a real need to cover the costs of this mass distribution, the majority would suggest that tolls be used for this purpose. In the context of the prioritisation of projects in other national roads, a unanimous committee refers to the need to follow up Rv 671 to the Todalen in Møre and Romsdal. This is a started road project that has been a repetition here in Stortinget. I now hope that the Council of State will follow up, so that the remaining work will be carried out on an ongoing basis. When I read the proposition below this point, other highways, I have to say that I was mildly surprised. Reference is made here to the treatment of the road map in the spring of 1997, and it says: ‘In order to implement such a commitment, the majority of the Committee intervened in order to increase the divided framework by 3 billion. kr during the 1998-2001 road planning period and SEK 7,5 billion. kr for the period 1998-2007. The majority of the committee went in to earmark 500 million. SEK for racial protection in the first four-year period and SEK 1250 million. kr during the ten-year period. There has been no majority in the UK for increased investment for road purposes.’ What is this thing? This government has just jumped out of this majority, and I can't see that the government has proposed or been close to proposing investment funds to follow the majority's 1997 assumptions. On the contrary, in fact, the Government has gone under what was the Jagland government’s investment framework for the road sector in the period 1998–2001. Is this a new example of the government depriving itself of all influence and putting everything in the hands of the Storting? Or is it an attempt to conceal that the Government has not shown the will or ability to follow the 1997 promises? According to the representative Ringstad, it is now established that it is the last. In the nations of June 15, she states: ‘The majority of Stortinget will invest more in transport. It does not benefit when the government is not in it». According to the newspaper, she accuses the government parties of direct lifting violations in relation to the parties in the previous period at Stortinget. This is very interesting. I have asked myself the question: Is the representative Ringstad a brave woman, or is it just a game for the gallery, because in today's nations the gentlemen of Steensnæs, Jakobsen and Kvassheim go out and ‘promote the road in the well-being of culture’? Then maybe it all boils down to becoming a campaign game, at least when the gentlemen say they can't promise that everyone will get what they want, for education and health should also have their own. In any case, it has been interesting to observe what has happened in the nations this week. The chairman of the Committee said in the debate on the previous case that he was looking forward to the next act in this touchdown, and I must say so. Come on! But anyway, I would recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1122	Inner. S. No 225 for 1998-99, which we have to deal with today, merges into a series of similar issues that we have had this year. I could have actually just taken out my manuscript from all the other toll collection cases we've had earlier this year, and repeated it. Unfortunately, this government wants to become known in the transport sector as the government that taxed the drivers the most. I have always believed that the Workers' Party was the great horror of the drivers, but now I have to admit that this Minister for Transport and the previous one from the same government is now going a high time! Here you're going to go in for a further increase in the number of trees around Kristiansand. Three new toll stations are being set up here, and even on sections where the drivers will not use the new road section. The progress party has been against the toll collection in Kristiansand and does not want an extension now either. I would like to refer here, as in all other cases, to the fact that the drivers pay a total of 38 billion kroner in car charges, while the state's operating, maintenance and road investment costs are only 9.6 billion kroner. In addition, the majority today also want to impose on users of the ferry between Hareid and Sulesund tolls in order to finance the improvement of traffic conditions at Hareid Centre. The Progress Party fully agrees that the traffic conditions at the Hareid Centre should be regulated, but we are of the opinion that this is a state responsibility, and it will then go beyond the transport budget. Furthermore, it is with great disappointment that I see that from the autumn of 1999, the Ministry will facilitate a charging scheme using high-speed tyres. The lot of progress was known against the introduction of the charge for the use of peak tyres. I'd like to refer to Innst. O. No 6 for 1997-98. Unfortunately, it seems to be the government's aim to impose all kinds of charges and coercion on car users. That's when I ask, couldn't the Minister of Transport and all his people first go in and see what they can contribute to, instead of putting all the burdens on the drivers? When are streets washed and cleaned? I go from Drammenswegen and get here to Stortinget, I drown in dust and muck every time a truck passes. Do you think that's the fault of the high-tech users? Are traffic lights set so that we get a continuous green wave when we drive? I notice at least very little about it. What about tax relief for new cars? Norway has probably the oldest and most polluting car park in Western Europe. These are just a few examples, but I don't have much hope that any of this will be corrected. It seems that it is easier to impose a new fee instead.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1141	First to the representative Ola Røtvej, as for example refers from the nations today, to those who have said something about the ‘road in the well-being’ and who are linked to parliamentary leaders. I must say that I expect Ola Røtvej to also know that journalists do not always quote exactly as it is said, but perhaps as the journalist wants it to be said. So to the proposition, which includes a bunch of smaller things. It is good to be able to register that the Government is largely in agreement with all the proposals, and that there is so much agreement on so many of the issues, as was also the case-law rapporteur Ola Røtvej. I just want to briefly mention some of the issues on which there has been some discussion, and start with the toll system in Kristiansand, with three new toll stations. The new toll stations are mainly designed to avoid excessive traffic loads on roads parallel to the E18. The neighbouring municipalities are not particularly enthusiastic about the proposal, not least about the municipality of Vennesla. Resistance is particularly linked to one of these three toll stations. It's been claimed that here, the road 1 drivers to Kristiansand will have to pay for the development of E18, without even using E18. It is also claimed that this is contrary to the Road Traffic Act’s requirement that tolls should be applied to measures that are in line with the drivers paying. However, from the Christian People's Party, we believe that the extension of the toll collection is justifiable. The development of E18 will improve the emergence and capacity of the overall road network in Kristiansand and will hopefully reduce traffic congestion and improve the emergence of the entire Kristiansand centre. So to Buskerud, where we're going to go a step further with E134. Since the Stortinget did not go in to build a temporary link between the old road and the existing new road section, local initiatives have been launched to advance to Damåsen. In the past, the size has been positive for municipal/communal redundancy early in the period 2002-2005. The plans are now in place, and an overall committee joins the Ministry’s proposals with repayments in 2003 and 2004. One of the issues discussed in the referral concerns the deposition of mass from the Triangle Connection. Austevoll Brusselskap AS has applied for the use of surplus mass from the Triangle connection to the sub-project on the planned road link between Huftarøy and Hundvåkøy, and wishes to finance the landfill with tolls on the ferries to Austevoll. The Ministry does not recommend toll collection for this purpose. For the Christian People's Party, the problem is not the prior collection of tolls for the project, but that one actually starts using collected tolls before the final decision on expansion is made. However, the Ministry has considered the dumping of excess mass from the Triangle Connection between Luftaray and Hundvåkø as the most natural deposit, regardless of tolls from Austevoll, and the Ministry suggests that the deposit should be covered by the Triangle Connection – mass deposition is the responsibility of the Triangle Connection. I actually thought this was a good solution for Austevoll. They get the mass where they want it, but don't pay for it. And I'm surprised that the Workers' Party and the Right need to say in their remark that the costs of mass deposition can be covered by the collection of tolls. The Communication mentions some of the projects previously reported by the Stortinget but which have subsequently been put under the responsibility of the counties. In particular, as Ola Røtvej also did, I want to make the way to the Todalen in Møre and Romesdal, where today's road creates major problems for the local corner stone company. The signals of the Storting have been very clear, but in retrospect this route, which is part of the other national road network, has been left under the county's responsibility and priority. But an overall committee wants a solution that will ensure that the work that remains is carried out continuously, so that the work does not stop. The Christian People's Party is concerned with the opportunities offered by increased exploitation of natural gas, not least there are many interesting opportunities in the transport sector. Gas ferries have been planned both in Rogaland and in More and Romesdal. Now the one ferry is on route, it's ordered, while there are problems in Rogaland. It is technically difficult to use CNG as originally planned and is now working to identify the potential to exploit LNG in sectors other than transport. This screening work will provide useful information when assessing the possibility of providing LNG to a gas ferry operator also in Rogaland.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1164	Inner. S. No 225 contains, as the rapporteur very well explained, a whole range of issues. I'm not going to comment on everyone, but take to myself a few quite few. The first concerns the extension, or the setting up of several toll stations for the financing of E18 in Kristiansand. The majority disagree with the right, who want to collect tolls from drivers who do not use the road to be financed by tolls. And so I have said that I do not agree with the interpretation of the law that is used here. The right-wing opinion is that it is unfortunate to extend the toll collection in this way. It weakens the confidence in the tolling system itself as such, turning this into what we might call a general road tax. This is the right-hand side. Right will also point out that there is great local resistance to this extension, and that's also why the Right will vote against points 2 and 3 of the setting. It is gratifying that one has now found a solution that ensures the progress of the route Hegstad - Damåsen in Buskerud County. In this context, let me praise Buskerud, who has shown the ability to find solutions in a difficult allocation situation in Norwegian transport. They deserve that! With regard to toll financing, the improvement of traffic conditions at the Hareid Centre, I took note of the case rapporteur's words, and I immediately thought of the quote that I am protesting for the world, but follow the road. This matter is also right-wing. We think it is very unfortunate to introduce a principle of financing road development by introducing tolls on the ferry routes, especially when the ferry route itself is not due to wind up. By accepting this principle, as the majority now actually does, of course, the temptation will be enormous to impose tolls on several ferry routes in order to finance more or less imaginative solutions related to road sections. I know what we're standing in front of. The right will point out that this proposal is also completely lacking – if one ignores the actual place where the money is to be used – local support. That's also why the right will vote against points 5 and 6 of the setting. Right is pleased that one has found a solution in terms of excess mass and the project new Rv 546 Huftarøy – Hundvåkøy. The right, together with the Workers' Party, suggests that the costs of this mass position can be covered by toll collection and expects the Ministry to return to that toll application where appropriate. In this context, I simply want to refer to Norwegian road and road traffic plans and what the Right wrote in that connection. That's the whole reason why we're obviously on what we said at the time. A number of projects have been identified in the setting, which the Stortinget has previously prioritised, but which are not completed, and which may not have been prioritised by the county councils once the division of responsibilities between the state and the state has changed. In the right, it is considered necessary to look at these issues in particular. National transport plan in spring 2000. The right is in a joint comitology that points to the different projects, but would stress that we are prepared to come back to the problem both in the 2000 budget and in the spring 2000 national transport plan. In particular, there are, as many have been involved, the distance in the Todalen Right is concerned about, because there are so significant business policy reasons to realize this project. But there are also other projects where it may feel that the Storting has somehow run away from its responsibility, and we have to clean it up – at least I think it is. The right is in a joint committee comment on the use of gas in the ferry sector. Right will underline the need for further investment in this area. In addition, it is important to see whether it is possible to combine increased use of gas in the transport sector with increased use of gas in general. Such rotation of use could have positive environmental effects, but in addition it could generate innovation related to the use of gas, which is superfluous if a wish to develop coastal new industries related to gas production. Finally, I am pleased that the majority underlines the need for a voluntary transition to high-speed tyres and therefore does not want to apply fees. That is very much in agreement with the Right. That was also the reason why the Right in its time voted against the bill that opened up the introduction of such fees. We thought and thought that it would be possible by positive means to influence the attitudes, so that the drivers would not use tip decks and go over to use non-rigid tyres. It turns out, as we said at the time, that people are reasonable and that it goes the right way. Of course, the attitudes have to be further worked on, but we hope that we never see these fees.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1190	The case spokesman had a good and thorough review of several of the individual projects mentioned in the joint proposal for management. Many of the projects, however, are not mutually exclusive in the Committee. So I'm not going to spend that much time, but I'm just going to associate some comments with a couple of the projects that have been mentioned. The first thing I want to mention is the use of the excess mass from the Triangle connection to the subproject new Rv 546 Luftarøy – Hundvåkø in the Austevoll municipality of Hordaland. The entire committee agrees that the masses from the Triangle connection should be placed so that they can be useful at a later date. Based on such reasoning, it is natural that the rocks are placed between Luftaray and Hundvåkøy. A large majority in the Committee, all other than the Progress Party, also states that the project Huftarøy – Hundvåkø is within Norwegian road and road traffic plans for 1998-2007. It is also shown that it will be relevant to launch the project in the period 2002-2007 and that the intention is that the project be partly financed by tolls. So there is a big deal about most of this, both in terms of the location of the masses, and in terms of the location of the project in question in Norwegian road and road traffic plans. At one point, which is the cost of mass placement, the Committee is divided into a multiple of the Labour Party and the Right and a large minority of the rest of the parties in the Committee. The central party is in the minority, which means that the position of mass from the Triangle Connection is also financially responsible for the Triangle Connection. We find it unusual from previous practice to open up tolls before final project development decisions have been taken. But apart from this economic side, as I have already said, there is a broad consensus about the mass position and the project's place in Norwegian road and road traffic plans. The other thing I want to make is the matter of prioritising projects within the other national roads. According to the working practices currently in the Committee on Transport, it is unusual for the Committee to include specific individual projects on the national road network. But the two projects taken under this point are projects that have been mentioned by the Committee before this magnification period, but that have not found the solution. The road to Kragerø has previously asked the Committee to make progress at the latest in the budget for 2000, and I expect this to be followed up. When it comes to the second project under this point, the highway to the Todalen in More and Romesdal, this has been mentioned a number of times from the Stortinget's side. The completion of this road will be of great value to the industry in Todalsfjordbotn. The Surnadal municipality has also repeatedly pointed to the large value of the completion of this project for the municipality, and it is as evidence that the municipality has agreed to advance up to 5 million. kr, a decision that the municipality has recently confirmed. In this case, the Committee asks the Ministry to arrange for the work to be carried out without stopping work. And I expect the government to take hold of this matter. So I notice that the representative Ola Røtweg used parts of his post to comment on the nation's comments last week. It might be a bit of a while to comment in Red Road's post, but I'm still going to refrain from long comments. Let me just say that I actually put back with the impression that the representative Røtweg almost did not want more money to come out of what we have said. But perhaps the representative Røtweg has started work on finding formulations that he can use in a future election campaign to create uncertainty about other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1207	A sentence in today's proposition gives rise to a number of reflections. The government is going to write: ‘There has not been a majority in the UK for increased investment for road purposes’. In the common language of ageing, this means that the Government has failed to get through its desire to grant more for road purposes. And then I have to ask the Council of State: When has the Government proposed road appropriations that the Storting has gone against? When? And as the representative Røtweg said, when has the government made any proposal to fulfill the promises made by the government parties before the elections? During the budgetary procedure in the autumn of 1997, the Government received through the road budget without any change in the amount. In the autumn of 1998, the road budget increased by 70 million. kr in addition to the Government's proposal. The Workers' Party proposed last harvest to increase national road investment by 260 million. kr in addition to the Government's proposal, but did not receive a majority in favour of it. So I ask again, when has the government proposed road appropriations that the Storting has gone against? Or is it that the Council of State is hiding behind others, as if the representative of the Fall described in a line change earlier today? So yesterday, the newspapers asked the United Nations Minister for Transport, Färvoll, if the government has been running away from the promises they were making when the road map was being dealt with in the spring of 1997? Then the jam gets the council to answer: ‘The Government does not grant a crown. It was the Stortinge that made the assumptions." But does the Council of State think that it is completely uninteresting to the Government what policy the Christian People's Party and the Central Party have drawn up in the Stortinget, and what policy they have proposed to their voters? I understand that the Central Party's own representative for big business Jorunn Ringstad in the Nation last Tuesday accused the government parties of direct lifting violations in relation to what the parties participated in in the previous period at Stortinget. Because that's what it is! But it's interesting that they now also say it themselves. And the Council of State continues to surprise. On the question of whether he is satisfied with the profile given to the transport budget for 1999, he answers: ‘I don’t want to comment on that.’ The Council of State was then a wise member of the government that provided the budget. If he couldn't accept the budget, it's just one consequence to subtract it. So I assume that he is behind the decision of the government that he himself was in. But is that the increase in road investment that Right forced through, which he has problems defending? In this case, it should be very interesting for those who contributed to the budget conciliation in the Committee on Transport, with a framework much lower than they themselves would have liked.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1240	In my main post, I'll focus on the committee's attitude, and then I'll try to get back to some of the questions in a three-minute post later. I have noticed that a majority in the committee on most points joins the Ministry's proposal in St.prp. No 68, and I am, of course, pleased about that. I would therefore just like to comment briefly on some of the Committee's comments on individual matters in the vote. As regards aviation safety on the Norwegian continental shelf, I would like to stress that this is an important and comprehensive issue. I will therefore, as you already know, come back to Stortinget at the beginning of 2000 with a thorough and up-to-date assessment of this matter. Then to the said extended toll system in Kristiansand. Today, toll collection from two toll stations – at E18 at Bjørndalsletta and at E39 at Falconbridge – is carried out at the entrance to Kristiansand. The extension covers toll collection from three new toll stations on the side road system. The collection from the new toll stations is scheduled to start at the turn of the year 1999-2000. An extension of the tolling system will reduce road leakage to untolled roads and increase the income base. I have noticed that a majority in the committee find it unfortunate that there is no local consensus on an extended toll scheme. In this case, the neighbouring municipalities of Vennesla and Iveland are opposed to enlargement. I would like to stress that the Ministry of Transport places great emphasis on local consensus in toll matters. In this case, the Ministry has placed the decisive emphasis on Kristiansand Municipality, as a host municipality, and the West Agder County Municipality, as part of the scheme. Another thing I would like to comment briefly on is the prioritisation of projects in other national roads. The size has previously expressed a number of road sections to be prioritised in other national roads, while the county municipality has a primary responsibility for prioritising this part of the road network. I have noticed that in this context the committee is asking the ministry to follow both the road to Kragerø and Todalsvegen. The Ministry will come back to this in its budget proposal for 2000. However, I would like to mention that there may be some doubt as to whether the Stortinget has prioritised the entrance path to Kragerø on previous occasions. This is also the reason why the entrance path to Kragerø is not included in the overview in St.prp. No Sixty-eight. I have otherwise noticed that the majority of the committee opens up the possibility of dumping lots from the Triangle Connection, as a sub-project on the planned bridge link Rv 546 Hundvåkøy – Huftarøy, toll financing. In this context, I would like to make two comments about this: Firstly, the main part of the cost of mass dumping costs should be covered by the Triangle Connection. The triangularity has to be removed from the masses, and there are currently no good alternative dumping sites. The extra cost of the Triangle Connection will be 1-2 million. kr, as in St.prp. No 68 is proposed to cover the budget for other national roads in Hordaland. Secondly, I have to ask questions about the credibility of toll collection as a source of funding will be weakened if we are to allow toll financing of this project. So it's toll finance dumping of stone in the sea. The road connection between Huftarøy and Hundvåkøy has not been established. Nor is it top priority among planned toll projects in Hordaland. We are now in a situation where we have a tight frame on the road budget, where we are among others. is well below the rate of expansion laid down in the Norwegian Road and Road Road Plan 1998-2007. Toll financing arrangements for this project in such a situation will easily imply that the project will be prioritised at the expense of other projects which are higher priorities in Norwegian road and road traffic plans. I have noticed that the Committee asks the Ministry of Transport to follow up and contribute to the implementation of the work of Norsk Gassforum on the ‘Natural Gas Road’. The Ministry will follow up its active work on the use of natural gas in the transport sector, as stated. the significant appropriations allocated to natural gas buses in Haugesund, Bergen and Trondheim in recent years and the preparations for the use of natural gas ferries, as referred to in the Proposition. With regard to the wider work of the Norwegian Gas Forum on the «Nature Gas Road», this clearly addresses the responsibility of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, which is generally responsible for managing national policies in relation to domestic distribution and the use of natural gas. I would therefore like to mention the role of the State Ministry of Oil and Energy in relation to the application from Norsk Gassforum. I can assure you that the use of natural gas in the transport sector will be subject to professionally sound treatment in the national transport plan context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1279	When the Storting of the spring session clears up in various affairs, many people out there are relieved. Traffic records everyone, and when the licenses are given and the follow-up is promised by Stortinget, we often get great thanks and honor in the committee. Yes, there are still occasions when greetings and flowers appear. Now this doesn't have to be understood as giving priority, but it tells a lot about what it's like to live around, and how much access means to people and businesses. As you can see, it is gratifying to note that increased borrowings both in 1999 and in the years ahead will provide more rational progress on the Gutu-Kopstad road section of the E18 in Westfold. We are all aware of the particularly unfortunate road section in Sande, and it must be good for the inhabitants that the construction time has an end. In the Sande municipality they have been patient, and this year they have lived with plant operations everywhere. Fortunately, this secures the progress. We also find reason to remember the road to Kragerø. A joint committee expects the Ministry to come back with new assessments in connection with the 2000 budget. That road was a promise to the city when the railway was laid down. We have an old promise there from the time when Johan J. Jakobsen was the Council of State, which has not been fulfilled. As a Busherud representative, I find particular reason to rejoice that E134 Hegstad-Damåsen is now in the box. When all the good forces, political tensions, state politicians and the business world, which I want to especially praise here, are involved in and pull the load in the same direction, then the result will be good. An accident-laden track shall be improved by acceleration and the result shall be better in the near future. Then I'm more concerned about the Drama Package. I hope and believe that local policy decisions are on track, and that no politicians are starting to fool up what's going to happen. I have, among other things: set that the double bridge of E18 should be used in close proximity as a pledge for the full DRAM package to be fulfilled first. I think it makes more sense to trust the Storting as a running authority, that the promise there stands by layers. The working party is of the opinion that the package should be completed. Overshooting is alarming. But twitching with approved planes is far worse. Then other projects in our long-term country can quickly rap the crowns, because the government has now also understood that transport investments are good election issues, cf. play out the last days of the representative Jorunn Ringstad from the Center Party. But it's important not to get engaged these days. We can all meet our promises after September 13th, and the challenges we face are almost invincible. We also tend to be reasonably good at reminding each other of the promises we have made, cf. what has happened after the potting option.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1300	In the proposition we have to deal with today, there's a matter I want to take the lead and talk a little bit about. It is the use of the excess mass from the Triangle connection to a subproject Huftarøy - Hundvåkøy in the municipality of Austevoll. Austevoll is a small municipality in Hordaland with 4,500 inhabitants. There's a number of islands that are going to be bound together, nine that people wear. They have many bridges, two are done, one is under work, and this is the last bridge to bind the municipality together. It is not a matter of this municipality being able to land in any way, but it is important that the islands where people live in the municipality can be bound together. That's why this is a very important project for the Austevoll municipality, and of course for Hordaland. And when it's the case that there are excess masses on the triangle connection, it's important to put them there. I am glad that the entire committee agrees that it can be placed there – except for the Progress Party, which was not in agreement with it either. One can show that this project is in the road map, that it is time to start the project in the period 2002-2007, and that it is expected that the project will be partly financed by tolls. That's why I'm very happy that the Right Party and the Labour Party say that this can help them collect tolls for already now. I think it's very important to give these signals to the municipality of Austevoll, so they know what they can count on in the future. So it has been said in the debate here that it does not yet have a proper position on this project. But when a number in the Committee, the Right Party and the Labour Party say this as clearly as they did in their comments, I expect that there will be a number for this project here in the Chamber, and that the Council of State will take it for information and come back with a case about it. Of course, it can't happen very quickly, but at least there are a lot of people who want this project to enter, and that a toll finance can already be used for it. I heard the council's comment when he had his post, but I did not hear any enthusiasm for this comment. Of course, I didn't expect that either, because the lot he belongs to is not on that note. But I expect, as I said, that when the majority have written such a clear note, the council will take note of it, and I would like to confirm that he will come back with a case on this. Since the centre party cannot attend that comment, I wonder what former leader of the Committee on Transport, who is from Austevoll, is referring to these parties today. I don't know if he had converted if he had been here, but I think at least that he had said that it was bad that they couldn't agree to give a handshake to Austevoll that – as I said – is bound by many small islands and needs a handshake from the big community in order to finance their bridges. They have done a very good job themselves to be part of this and to fund it – and have also been involved in the financing of tolls in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1316	The President shall draw attention to the fact that the regulatory time for the evening meeting is immediately over. However, the President will propose that this meeting continue until the current map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1321	I have a distressing feeling that the Stortinget is being fooled in the matter of the gas-powered ferries in the Bokenafjord connection and the follow-up to the intentions behind the decision on the «Naturegaswegen», because the Stortinget has repeatedly confirmed its willingness to invest in gas ferries and associated infrastructure, and over and over again the department comes back with new delays. I find it discouraging, at the limit of unacceptable, that the Government will train this case until the national transport plan 2002-2011 comes to the fore. In St. prp. No 1 for 1997-98, gas ferries said that the design had taken longer than expected. For the ferry to Mortavika – Arsvågen, construction contracts could only be concluded in 1998. Now, halfway in 1999, and after these ferries have been called over and over again, Stortinget is invited to push the entire project out in time. It is difficult to interpret this differently from the fact that this government does not want to implement the Stortingen decision on gas-powered ferries in the Bokenaförd connection. In a letter from the Directorate of Road to the Ministry of Transport of 26 March this year, there is a lot about this. It says: ‘All public investigations into the potential use of the energy resource of natural gas to a greater extent in mainland Norway have concluded that, if this is to become a reality, it is necessary to focus on the distribution of the gas in liquid form’. In addition, it says: ‘A project of scale and duration that we consider necessary in order to make the gas-ferry project more than a good but poorly implemented idea can only be secured in our opinion by the State which is a driving force and a financial guarantor.’ It goes on to say: ‘If such a bet is made, the construction of gas ferries to several ferries in Rogaland and Hordaland may be relevant, which in turn would facilitate the implementation of the ‘Natural Gas Road’ vision.’ There are so many things that point in the same direction. It goes on to say: ‘The worst thing that can happen for the natural gas project will therefore be to stop one ferry. This will give a signal effect to the transport sector that the use of alternatives to today’s solutions is not really relevant.’ It is also stated in the conclusion: ‘At the next stage, we recommend investment in a mini-condensation plant such as: Gasnor’s option C, together with investment in gas ferry for use in the Mortavika - Arsvågen connection in Rogaland. The investment will also provide back-up gas for the ferry in Møre and Romsdal.» I think this letter from the Directorate of Roads to the Ministry of Transport clearly shows that there is a basis here to proceed with gas ferries before the transport plan is to be dealt with. And I expect that in the draft budget for the year 2000, there are elements that show that work is moving forward.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1363	The Council of State has the impression that the last article is based on some misunderstandings about where we are now on the gas ferry project. I also refer to the summary on page 5 of the setting. There is already a contracted ferry that is to be inserted into a specific connection. We have recorded that the scheme of gas use in Rogaland was not implemented with the type of gas proposed. So let's try another solution in this area. In the case of the ‘Natural Gas Road’, I explained it in my post. The transport side, the oil and energy department, I want to deal with that department, so the cooperation is intact. Let me briefly comment on some of the questions that have come. To Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, I would just like to say briefly that the Council of State has to deal with the budgets that he is given, and this big deal decides. In other words, from my point of view, in the future, there will be a careful emphasis on the fact that the projects I promote for Stortinget are as good as possible when it comes to frames. So I want to add that the projects are going to be on +/- 10 pst, which the Storting has also wanted in the past, and that we are avoiding the huge exceedances that eat from future projects. There has been a burden on the road sector over many years. So the representative requested Frøiland's enthusiasm around Austevoll and stentipping etc. in the case of excess mass from the Triangle Connection. I was very excited. It's just that I see that it must be clear who is going to pay this. This is the job of the Triangle Connection to do, they're going to cost this -- it's their surplus mass, and they don't have so many other places to tip it. What would have to be extra costs, we're going to cover the other national roads. When the Storting had to decide on the implementation of the project that the representative of Frøiland talked about, it would be quite natural for tolls to be assessed. This Council of State sees tolls as a good solution for speeding up the targets of a number of projects so that other projects in the queue can emerge. Then I would like to congratulate the Committee's chairman, Oddvard Nilsen, and the representative, Thore Aksel Nistad, on their efforts to train the drivers in Norway to reduce the heavy-duty use. Because that's what the government wants. What we've done is to get a warrant, because if you don't do this assignment by 2002 and the free share is reached approx. 80 pst., it would be natural for a fee to be imposed. If this is the case, it is not appropriate to impose a charge.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1378	When I take the word for a three-minute post late in the evening, it's to comment on Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen's posts here. For the nth time, we experience that the representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen overlooks the reality of the matter we are dealing with, and chooses to use the time to repaint the lifting break of the centre parties and their ineffectiveness. Let me again state that the Christian People's Party has no problem admitting that we have not fulfilled all our promises in the agreed plan. For me, it is important to stress that honesty is the longest, and we have also said this to our voters in an honest way. I also think our voters understand that. And I also think that in this room there was a broad consensus that tightening was necessary to save the Norwegian economy. In addition, we are struggling with large bonds and with large exceedances on several of the projects that the opposition parties in this room must also take responsibility for. One of the projects opened this week, and unfortunately the appropriations for Finnmark, for other projects, have suffered. I look forward with pleasure to and want to see how the Workers' Party, as I understand it, wants to return to the government corridors, in the future will speed up the transport sector. As far as I can understand it now that interest rates are falling, the oil price is good and the unemployment rate is less than it has been in the last ten years. And we can ask ourselves if it would have been if we hadn't had to take the chance of breaking any of the promises we originally made. I think history will show us that we tolerate the comparison that comes on the day the Workers' Party will shape its transport policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1387	I record that the representative Sahl has made it his own sport to defend the government against the demonstration of realities that I have found necessary to do in a number of matters. We'll probably have a number of ways to get back to that in the rest of the period. But then the representative says Sahl that the undersigned does not comment on the reality of the matter. But that's exactly what I'm doing. I have taken from the wording that the Council of State in a previous case underlined that he checks very carefully before they move on to the Stortinget, and where the Council of State – and the Government – states: ‘There has not been a majority in the Stortinget for increased investment for road purposes.’ I can unfortunately not be more concrete than going directly into the proposition. Then my point in this matter is not that the government has broken promises. It has done so, and I have shown that the representative Jorunn Ringstad now, on behalf of the government parties, has acknowledged that it has been done, not with the same enthusiasm as the representative of Sahl – the representative Ringstad regrets it somewhat more than what Sahl does, I have registered – but my point is that the council is pushing the Storting ahead. The Council of State covered itself behind the Stortinget, which was also the representative of the Fallet in a previous line today. And then the Council of State says he's dealing with the budget he gets from the Storting. Of course! It's elementary constitutional right. But that's not the point. The point is that when the Council of State adopts a wording such as ‘There has not been a majority in the Grand Duchy for increased investment for road purposes’, it is to say that the Government would have wanted to join the Grand Duchy for increased appropriations, but unfortunately it has not been possible. That's not the situation. The government has received more in the Storting for road purposes than it has requested, because the Right Party and the Advance Party have pushed up the appropriations – not as far as the Workers' Party was in favour of national road investments last autumn, but they have thus pushed up the appropriations for road purposes in relation to what the Government proposed. Then the government sits and says that there has not been a majority for increased bet. My question is then: When has the government proposed an increase in bet? When has the Government proposed any allocation for road purposes to which they have not received agreement in the Stortinget? If the government's representative can show one single example, it's interesting. Then is my point: Had it not been more honest from the Council of State and written that the Government has found no room to propose more for road purposes, or what had been even more reasonable; that the Government has not seen it possible to keep its roadlifts. It is fully possible to formulate itself in such a way, and it would have been to take responsibility for their actions. But what the Council of State does, and as the representative of the Fall pointed out in other matters too, is that he pushes the Storting in front of him as if it is the Storting that has problems with these appropriations. Had it not been possible to take responsibility for your own actions and not to try to shift responsibility to others?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1402	I'm not going to say that the Council of State covers itself behind others, but the letter I quoted in my post was from the Directorate of Road to the Ministry of Transport, so I assume that the Council of State may have read this. Because when the Council of State presents it as if it is a new problem that liquid natural gas must be used in a gas-driven ferry in the Bokenafjord connection, LNG gas, then that is not the right thing. In the letter I quoted from, they recommend that measures be taken to put infrastructure in place in Haugaland in order to be able to use these ferries, and they are precisely based on LNG. The fact that these ferries were going to LNG has been known for many years. And the technology developed for the gas-powered ferry ordered for the ferry service in More and Romesdal has actually cost a lot of money to develop. And it is recommended that these investments in technology be spread over several ferries, that several gas ferries based on LNG be contracted, and that investment in infrastructure measures be started in Haugaland, so that LNG can be produced from there for ferries in the Bokenaförd link, that one can be both a supplier of any ferries in a link in Hordaland and also a spare supplier of the already adopted ferry project in Møre and Romsdal. It is clear from the letter that I received a copy of, and that is addressed to the Ministry of Transport. This is what we ask the Council of State to take seriously, a recommendation from the Trade Union, which is based on decisions taken by the Stortinget in the past and subsequently confirmed by decisions and committee comments. We think it is regrettable that the government will push this beyond this period of expansion, and actually leave to the next big deal to find the allocation of these absolutely necessary investments, if we are to take the decisions that the Storting has taken in the past, seriously. But it is therefore the government's duty to present a draft budget that meets the decisions taken by the Stortinge in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1409	The council has to repeat that there has to be a slight misunderstanding here, or that someone is talking past each other. This is a pilot project where you have now contracted the first ferry. Additional costs have also been explained for the project that will be covered. We continue to work on the project in Rogaland to find similar solutions. As regards the work of Norsk Gassforum, I have also shown that the Ministry will follow up its active work on the use of natural gas in the transport sector, cf. the significant appropriations allocated to natural gas buses in Haugesund, Bergen and Trondheim in recent years and the preparation of natural gas ferries, as referred to in the Proposition. But the government expects that when experimenting, you also have to gain experience before going out on a larger scale. The next project is Rogaland. However, with regard to who is going to build the infrastructure on land, on the hands of the companies, it is the opinion of the Council of State that the Ministry of Oil and Energy has a responsibility to manage national policies in relation to the domestic distribution of natural gas. It is this cooperation that the Ministry of Transport is now trying to establish and move on. So there's no training, no attempt to postpone or push appropriations, but we have some technical and technological challenges. Then to the representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen. I never needed to push anyone in front of me, either as a big-time representative or as a state councillor. In other words, I've never pushed and never going to push the Storting in front of me in argument context. On the other hand, I have repeatedly said that with regard to the budget I am going to handle, whether I have been the Council of State when it was adopted, a member of the Government when it was adopted, or this has arisen in another way and I have entered the position I have here, I am responsible for following it up, keeping the frameworks and also presenting the projects. The next challenge for all of us is about the 2000 budget. I perceive the representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen so that he would like to take a look at some of the formulations and how this can be expressed in such a way that it is not misunderstood in the text itself. I'd like to take that challenge. What's in the proposition is just a statement of fact.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1422	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[See page 4146]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1436	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 4147]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1450	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 4147]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1464	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to a main intervention of up to 5 minutes from each group and from the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will suggest that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the posts allocated will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1469	After Saga had sought various alliances in its efforts to strengthen its equity, Hydro presented its bid to Saga's shareholders on 10 May in a trading relationship between Hydro shares in relation to Saga shares in a force ratio of 3:1. We all know the history after that time. This process has lasted a long time after the proposition was promoted, and we have seen that Elf has arrived on the track. Hydro has again raised its bid, and so has Elf – raised and changed its premises for its cash bid. We have also seen that this case has taken a completely different turn than it should. Initially, this matter is about two aspects. One is a power of the Government to obtain funds for advisory assistance, and the other is, as a consequence, that the majority of shares at the Hydro General Assembly are asking for authorisation to accept a reduction in the majority of the State's shares from 51 to 43 p.m. in Norwegian Hydro. In addition to this case, it is that if the last solution is accepted, there will no longer be three independent Norwegian oil environments. At the same time, we are reducing the diversity that has contributed to the creation of Norway into a highly successful oil nation in more than one way. This matter should initially be very curative. If it had been up to Saga's shareholders to care for this, they would have been exempted from the political interference we've seen, both from the government team and from the political team in Stortinget, where this at an early stage, too early, has been presented as a desired solution. The Minister of Economic Affairs and the Minister of Oil and Energy has made this clear. This has been the result, it is claimed by several credible teams that, unfortunately, a situation in which several foreign large, heavy players have made their bids has been exempted, in that they have seen this as a politically desirable solution, and that it was not up to Saga's shareholders to decide on this matter alone, and that they must have so-called political good contacts that can help to determine the final result. There has been a mix of political roles, a mix of interests and different motives, which are not at all worthy of the nation of Norway. From the Right, Hydro has to do with Saga's shares, but it has to be done completely without state interference and government direction. It is Saga's shareholders who must be allowed to decide in this case. What has happened in the last three weeks is simply that Norway, as a nation, has been given a mark where the reputation that it has had internationally, in my opinion, has been clearly weakened. This process has contributed to getting quite a number of dark signals into the debate, and it has been shown that the political credibility and stability that have shaped this picture in the past, which through international companies has been with and built up the oil nation of Norway, is now relatively threatened. We have seen that it can indirectly be as a final result today that there is state capital that helps to buy up and almost nationalize the private company Saga. And that is not at all wanted by the state. This case would have been very curative if it had been up to Saga's shareholders to decide who should enter this picture. It would have been curant to the Right even if it hadn't been the case that the majority parties not only adhere to a note where they give the Government the power to buy back from 43 up to 51 pst. again, but you even have to have it into a separate Roman number decision, II. This means that it is happily stated that it is the state that is involved in the indirect purchase of Saga Petroleum ASA. The second ratio is that you are giving a clear signal and authority to the Government that you are going to spend 7 to 9 billion dollars of the state's money to buy back in Norsk Hydro ASA. It should not surprise anyone who is in a majority position, that today the European Commission has been notified, and that the matter is hardly going to be of any great pleasure to Hydro's shareholders. Finally, on this basis, of course, the right vote against the motions for resolutions I and II. Time does not allow us to justify why we are also voting against the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1495	From the debate in the media and now also from what the representative Ivar Kristiansen said, a few impressions can be that there is government and magnificence that have contributed to the Saga being put out to the hall. It's a complete distortion of fact. It is Saga’s shareholders who have contributed to the company being put out for sale. The history of its owners has the full ability to participate in the company’s continuing to become a private company – probably a private Norwegian company – if they want to. Worker's party wants a shortage on the pedestal. We'll probably have that, whatever happens to Saga. But we still want three Norwegian oil environments, and, as I said, we also want Saga to continue as a company. Nevertheless, it is neither the Government nor the Storing's images to determine just that. It's Saga's owners who can decide if they want to do it. It's also true that what we're discussing today is essentially whether Hydro should be able to participate and possibly buy Saga if the shareholders are willing to sell, and they are willing to sell to Hydro. It's just as simple and so complicated. If Hydro comes in such a position that they can buy Saga, they must have authority to an extension of their capital, and then they have chosen to do so in such a way that they offer Saga's shareholders axes in Hydro. It would be a little strange if the Stortinge were to choose to prevent Hydro from being an actor in this area. Because when we created Saga in its time, it was because we wanted a third Norwegian private property company. So far, there's no reason for it to be the result in the future. Either I assume that we end up with two Norwegian oil environments, or we end up with Saga becoming a foreign company. In any case, we do not have three Norwegian environments left in the future. But if Hydro gets permission to buy up Saga, the state's owner's share will decrease from 51 pst. to 43 pst. It's not dramatic in itself. The State will still have control of the important decisions of the company. When we have agreed to give the Government an authorisation to buy it back up to 51 pst, it is an authority. There is no directive. The government can use the authority if it wants to, and whenever it wants.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1510	Let me first take up the proposals of the Advance Party, where we express the clear wish that Statoil will not be given the opportunity to participate in the purchase of Saga. It's because we, as owners, see that Statoil has more than enough to fix their own house and do what they already have on the base. The new board of directors and the new group leader who comes have more to do with what they're going to do in a proper way, if they're not going to start messing with the slaughter of a very well-functioning company. Then I'll be allowed to disagree with almost everything Kjell Opseth said. What he says is also not correct. This case is submitted to the Stortinget, but not to the Stortinget, which is normally the authority. If we had exercised our powers, in case we had asked the Competition Authority to take a proper look at the purchase of the listed company Saga, to what extent, in order to say no, the consideration of competition might have been possible. It would have been the exercise of authority. What has been submitted to the Stortinget today is presented to us in our capacity as the owner of about 51 pst. of the shares in Norwegian Hydro. That's the owner function that we're now doing. Then it can't be like Kjell Opseth says, that Hydro is a company that we don't have anything to do with. The reason for owning the shares has just been to exercise an active ownership. It is not the case that the Saga shareholders have offered the company for sale. In a listed company, there will always be owners who sell their shares, and someone who buys. What puts a company in play that way is that someone makes a formal offer to all the shareholders to buy all the shares – minimum a certain percentage for the offer to stand by. That's what started this, and it didn't come from the shareholders in Saga. It came from the management and boards of Statoil and Hydro. This would not have happened – at least it would not have gone that far – if the owner had said no. It was often claimed that neither Hydro nor Statoil does big, important things without having checked with their owner that the owner said yes. And the owner here is the Norwegian state. Neither Hydro nor Statoil would have thought of bringing a ‘takeover bite’ to Saga if they had not received prior approval signals from the Government, which in turn had clearly spoken to the Workers’ Party and secured back coverage. This is a state acquisition of a listed company — the third Norwegian oil environment — which was not entirely initiated by collapse and government. There were a number of industrial people and large parts of the Norwegian people who bought shares in what was the beginning of what is today Saga Petroleum. I think this is looking at a time when we just need to compete on the pedestal and to open up opportunities for new companies that are specialists in different areas. Hedge production has been mentioned as one thing. There are also other elements on the Norwegian pedestal that are now ripe, which is why different environments need to be thought differently. Maybe an environment sometimes gets some new, nice thoughts that the others haven't come up with. It is competition between the oil environments in both the technological, the financial and the other areas that belong to being an oil company, which we should stimulate, at least if we were to think of it as a national assembly and as an authority practitioner. But in addition, as I said, when we look at our ownership role in the two companies, I don't think it serves the interests of the companies, and it also seems that Hydro has actually lost. The stock value of the state’s ownership interest in Hydro has fallen dramatically since this offer came. So there is not a single reasonable reason why Hydro and Statoil should be allowed to buy Saga – not a single reasonable reason! But there's a lot of objections. One of them is to preserve these three oil environments and manage Norwegian interests better than what you do in what comes from the Government. We are voting against I, II and III and for our own proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1527	The representative Carl I. Hagen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1530	It blows freshly around Hydro today because of engagement on Iceland and in Europe, and on the basis of advertising campaigns in Europe against Hydro from Elf, after what I have heard. But it might be to wait, because Hydro is Norway's largest listed company and is one of the Nordic's leading industrial companies. Also, Hydro is not expected to be interested when Saga is on sale. The reason why Saga is for sale is, as I read it at least, a weak result in 1998, a debt of DKK 13.5 billion and a equity of NOK 7.2 billion. This is about enormous values, and we might know a little bit more tomorrow about what the outcome might be. However, when the State is, in fact, a majority shareholder, and the Saga offer goes on an extension of Hydro's capital towards Saga's shareholders, where Hydro's existing shareholders do not participate, it is absolutely necessary that the Minister of Industry is given the powers formulated in the Decision I. Otherwise, Hydro, which is a limited liability company, as I said, will prevent her from participating in the Saga. It must be untimely. I thought it was strange that the cork Right, as I understood Kristiansen, or the Progress Party sees it, and goes against the setting. The Christian People's Party is not pleased that the lack of Norwegian oil industry can be reduced. For my part, I would like to see Saga maintained and passed on as a company owned. But here's the deal. Commercial considerations must be justified. It is true that Ivar Kristiansen, the spokesman for this case, says that it is Saga’s owners – shareholders – and possibly the board that decides this. In this case, in the case of II of the Decision, I would like to stress that the Government is given a mandate, i.e. a declaration of trust. The state is and is going to be a major shareholder in Hydro, so it's free to manage this property. This does not mean that there is a disguised order that the state should buy up again, is not deleted. The control you would like to have with Hydro will also be able to perform with reduced ownership. But the government will not come to Stortinget if it might find it relevant to purchase axles in Hydro again. I understand that the right-hand side doesn't want the government to buy up to a plural position again. State ownership in the Norwegian business community is emerging. But this government is pleased with the powers it is given, and will certainly use them with understanding.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1548	Saga's board has recommended the shareholders to accept Hydro's bids. On the right, Hydro prohibits the purchase of these shares in the Storting as Hydro intends to make the purchase. So much is right-wing government ownership that they want market forces to be completely overrun in this example. Saga has been strongly wanted and prioritised, and no one in Stortinget has suggested that three major Norwegian players on the base are not an advantage. Saga has been given priority by allocations, perhaps Saga is the Norwegian company that has received the most state aid over time. The owners of Saga have put the company out for sale. They do not want to continue as they are now due to poor performance and major financial challenges in the future. They want to cooperate with or become part of another or more companies. Hydro has made purchases in cooperation with Statoil on a commercial basis. Hydro has made known the consequences for the three companies. There will be 800 fewer annual works in total, but it says in the proposition we have received from the Government, that the expertise will be preserved. The board of directors of Saga has recommended that the shareholders deal with Hydro. Through trade, the ownership interests of the country will be reduced. The state will lose control of Hydro, and will go from 51 pst. holding and down to about 43 pst. A reduced ownership interest for the state of Hydro was assessed by 1994 at the latest, when the equity of Hydro was extended by NOK 5 billion. At the time, the majority of the Committee said: ‘... sees that the State owns 51 pst. of the axes of the company. With the value of the company for our industrial environment, employment and foreign exchange earnings, the country should continue to own approximately. 51 pst. by the axes of the company.» The considerations mentioned here have not become less important in recent years until now. In my opinion, they are becoming more important to the state if Hydro takes over Saga. Hydro has been a profitable investment for the state. I trust that a bigger Hydro will be more profitable – I have that confidence in those who lead Hydro. The Central Party will authorise the Government to purchase up to more than 50 pst. if the Saga purchase becomes a reality. We want to get a clear signal on it now. There should be a signal that the state is not going down to 33 p.m., as someone might perceive what is happening now. Another aspect here is the avoidance of new concerns about the Hydro shares on the stock exchange. The right-hander says in his post that this matter should not have evolved as it has. I would say that it is the market that has been the driving force in this matter. Saga's shareholders have run, in addition to the market. We agree on many things, but this also applies in other industries, and in those areas I have not heard that the Right has been so skeptical the times we have had the opportunity to discuss such matters in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1575	Part of the background to this case is that you have to bring it with you when you are now discussing whether to give Hydro the opportunity to expand the stock. Saga has had poor results over several years, and we also had a low oil price situation during the winter, which has made it speculate in the press and in the oil environment about whether anyone was going to live at Saga. It has been a publicly known case that Saga was in some way out for sale. It's also been part of the background for this. In addition, this concerns the structure of Norwegian oil industry, a structure that Stortinget is constantly discussing. It has been a wish from Stortinget, also from SV, that we should preserve three oil environments, and the three oil environments have so far consisted of a whole-time state company, a semi-state and a private one. There has also been a structure that SV has been positive to, and that we believe has been right. For SV, this has been a difficult matter – I would like to admit that, because we see, we should say, both negative and positive aspects of it. We were positive that Elf placed a bid on Saga when Saga was first called ‘in spinning’, as it is well called in those circles, both because it could help to keep Saga’s organization and Saga’s competence as far as possible, and also because it would help Hydro remain 51 pst. State. There is no doubt that Hydro's bids and the bid received their design, namely that one wants to exchange shares, have been strongly motivated by the fact that Hydro wants to get below 51 pst. State share majority. So we've wanted both Hydro to be a separate company and Hydro to be a 51 pst. State company. That's why we were also positive, as I said, to Elf's bid, which could meet two requirements. The solution that we now have and that we are now sketching, even after Hydro has made his new bid, means that Hydro will be a less state-owned company than we want, and there is also a danger that Saga's organization will disappear to a great extent, and that Saga will disappear as a separate company. Unfortunately, the reality we have to deal with is that a reality SV really doesn't like, but a reality we have to look into in our eyes. That also means that there is a responsibility on Saga’s shareholders. It is quite unreasonable to say that this responsibility is a political responsibility alone. If the shareholders in Saga want a different solution than the solution that Stortinget is discussing today, Saga's shareholders actually have the opportunity to do so. It is a privately owned limited liability company, which has the opportunity to say that you recommend a different bid than what is highest, and then you also have the opportunity to say that you do not want to sell. This means that what the Stortinget is really discussing is the structure of Norwegian oil industry, to open up when Saga is first ‘in spinning’, to change the structure. I really don't want to, but those cards are dealt, and they can't be returned. On the basis of an overall assessment, SV, as the situation is, wants to grant this authorisation. For SV, it is important – unlike for the speakers who have been here before, who also support the majority position – to state that it is important for us that the state buys up in Hydro. The model with a 51 pst. State Hydro has been a success. There has been an industrial success for Norway — it has contributed to significant industrial growth for Norway. Hydro's model has been a pattern, by the state being a passive shareholder, but at the same time, if that situation should arise, has had the opportunity to dictate what the conditions should be. This has not been done by the State, but this has contributed to the fact that Hydro has its headquarters in Norway, it has contributed to industrial growth and impulses to the Norwegian community by, among others, Competence building, to which SV has been positive. We're afraid that what we're seeing now is a government sale in Hydro, and that one over time will also come lower than the 43 pst. which will result from this exchange of shares linked to Saga. We regret that, so I would like to challenge the Council of State that is going to keep its post afterwards, and say, "How does he want to use that mandate?" Will he actively go in to say that the state will buy itself up again in Hydro? As I said, based on an overall assessment, we choose to support today's setting. This is and has been a difficult problem for SV based on what I have said here. I would have liked to see, which is our primary wish, that there was a third private oil environment in Norway on national ownership. That possibility isn't the Stortinget that has played over the end, it's Saga's shareholders who have put Saga out for sale. I'm very sorry, but this is the situation, and it's a reality SV, like others, has to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1590	Norsk Hydro's desire to acquire the shares in Saga Petroleum is a matter that raises both political and business issues and that has had to be dealt with very quickly. Saga had gradually come into a somewhat weakened situation and had taken its own steps to find new strategic alliances and new shareholder groupings that could contribute capital. Saga's ability to continue as an independent company thus became uncertain. In this situation, when Hydro has chosen to invest in taking over the company, this is a business decision of the board and the company meeting in Hydro. However, as the acquisition was not to be financed by borrowing, but by the fact that much of the payment was to be in Hydro shares, it also became a matter for the general meeting. The State, at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade as a shareholder in Norsk Hydro, would not be able to vote in favour of a capital increase without the permission of the Stortinget. Hydro's board decision to try to take over Saga Petroleum ASA became known on 10 May. The proposition on the matter was submitted on 28 May and is treated as known in Stortinget today, 17 June. For the country as a partner in an international industrial establishment, it is very satisfactory to show that decisions can be made in such a large case so expedited. The Committee has underlined the importance of allowing the Saga share bids to take place without the intervention of political authorities in the process and the implementation of the non-discrimination requirement. If, for commercial reasons, Norwegian Hydro finally receives the Saga Petroleum award, the Committee agrees with the Government that it is natural for the State to waive the majority share in Norsk Hydro. The state wants a stake of about 42-43 pst. continue to have a control position as a shareholder in the company. I would otherwise like to stress that the commercial process around the acquisition of the Saga shares is still exciting, and contains several unresolved questions. It is positive that Hydro has found cooperation with Statoil in this regard and that the offer to Saga shareholders now made comes from the two in common. However, the French oil company Elf competes with Hydro and Statoil. Both have had a deadline for the Norwegian shareholders in Saga which expires on 18 June, but Elf has now extended its deadline by one week. The Government stated in its proposal that the need to submit proposals to the Storting on the power to increase the state's ownership of Hydro to over 50 p.m. would be assessed on an ongoing basis, and the majority of the Economic and Social Committee proposes a formal decision where: «The Government is authorised to purchase shares in Norwegian Hydro ASA up to 51 p.m. State holding, at the time the Government, if any, finds it appropriate.» This has led to an enquiry by Oslo Børs, which points out that the mandate could affect the price of the Hydro share. In this context, I would like to refer to what has been stated both in the proposition and in the setting, where there are no objections to the government renouncing the majority of shares in Hydro and going down to the level outlined at 42-43 pst. Here, the state will continue to have control over fundamental issues in Norwegian Hydro. If the majority proposal is adopted in Stortinget, the Ministry will assume that this mandate will last for a number of years. The government will be able to continuously assess the need to increase its ownership interest in Hydro, but there are currently no concrete plans for such share purchases.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1612	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1616	The Labour Party and the Centre Party's proposal to increase the State's ownership of Hydro if the company gets to buy Saga must be one of the most crazy proposals made in this Chamber. The proposal is an example of how the Workers' Party's clockwork on state ownership is combined with the Central Party's fear of foreign capital. Kjell Opseth stated in his statement that ‘we also want Saga to continue as a company of its own.’ That's not true. The Workers' Party was the first party in the Stortinget to discuss the so-called slaughter of Saga. I myself was at the Thorbjørn Jagland press conference, where he said: the state must take hold. The State must coordinate its interests and ensure that the values of Saga are added to Statoil and Hydro. He could have added: True my words. Because that's what's now happening. So far, there's not a single argument why the state is going to spend 7-10 billion dollars on taxpayers' money, or on future pension funds, to buy up a private company. Why is it necessary for the State to have a majority share in Hydro? It is not a single representative who has been up in this pulpit and explained why. I took part in a debate with the representative Morten Lund earlier today and asked him if he could mention a single example of the state having used its majority position in Hydro. There was no reply. It speaks for itself. The right has been open for Hydro to submit a bid, but it has been under the clear assumption that the state's ownership will decrease. It is absolutely necessary to maintain the balance between State and private capital and State and private interests on a Norwegian base. With the proposal now in place, the consequence could be less diversity, less competition and more State. It is taking several steps back in both Norwegian oil policy and Norwegian oil policy. And how do the Workers' Party and the Center think this is perceived in the market and among the foreign companies? Well, in Norway we think Norwegian, and we think stately. There is no invitation to the foreign companies to invest capital, both human and real, on a Norwegian base. There are values that Norway needs. That's not the signal the center parties and the Workers' Party are sending out today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1633	The previous two speakers have explained the special circumstances of the Saga situation. I'm going to pick up a couple of points of a more principleal nature. I must say that the end of Sponheim's posts seemed like it, insofar as he should have written it himself, had to be written with the pen. This authority will last a few years, he says, but he has no plans to use it. What is at least certain is that this has created uncertainties in up to several areas. It is completely incomprehensible to me in the light of the ownership message that this government presented, which we dealt with four months ago, and which referred to both this with public ownership, private ownership and mixing the roles of the regulator and owner. The government parties, the Right Party and the Advance Party agree on all comments in that setting, while the Workers' Party was relatively traditional. However, that was before Mr. Lund became head of the Business Committee. I have to say that I am reacting very emphatically to the attitude that this attitude that is now being treated expresses what it is about giving this authority that the Government has not in any way requested. On the contrary – Sponheim clearly says that a purchase of 51 pst. It's not desirable, as it says in the proposition that we're dealing with. So why is it necessary for the government parties to be involved in giving Sponheim a mandate that he has not requested, when he has warned of the consequences of using the authority that he receives through the setting we are dealing with today? There have been suspicions that this proposal should have been staged by the Workers' Party. I have no exact knowledge of how this has come on the table, but I strongly suspect one of the government parties. After hearing the representative, Lund, I have, in effect, confirmed the suspicion I had. It is not, in fact, as the representative Seele said, that the government does not have to come to Stortinget with any case to buy up to 51 p.m., based on their having this mandate. It could have been possible to get the Council's answer as to whether it is as Mrs. Seele said, or whether the Government needs a grant in the Stortinget. I would assume that you need a grant when you spend NOK 8-9 billion on buying a share. I would definitely believe that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1649	I will only be allowed to say to the representative Hagen and his strong emphasis on what this matter is about: there can be no doubt that this matter is about giving the Government an authority to vote for a capital extension in Hydro – and only that. Then I understand that the representative Hagen added to me and the Labour Party other motives than those we have. No, I stand by – also to the representative Sanner – that we should like to see Saga continue as a private company. When I used the popular expression that Saga was put out for sale, I am fully aware that in the interior circles will be called to come into play. It had actually happened a long time before Hydro put a bode on Saga. But equally, the shareholders still decide whether Saga should continue as a company, whether to accept Hydro's offer or Elf's offer. It's not up to the Storing to decide. I thought there was a reason to make it clear. So to this authority as a multiple now, the government will give it a chance to buy it again. Yes, I stand by what the Labour Party has been in the setting. We have given an authorisation to the Government to buy up if they find it advisable, and when they find it purposely. There is no directive. I thought there was every reason to underline that. So to this statement of $8-9 billion. It is said in such a way that you should believe that this went beyond schools and hospitals. But this is a repositioning of the state's capital and so on below the line, which we in inside circles know what it means. Thus, there is no impact on the other activities of society. But that means a repositioning of the state's capital, yes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1660	Let me first say that I appreciate the last remark of Kjell Opseth, where he stressed that an authorisation need not necessarily be used. But I see no reason for us to give the government any authority to purchase shares in Hydro later. Apparently, some people are walking around thinking that you have to have 51 pst. to have control. As far as I know, it's never been more than 65 pst. of the shares represented at a general meeting in Hydro, in which case there is more than enough control over 42-43 pst. But the remarkable thing is, why do you have to have control all over the world, when the majority in this room later on, like what Hydro is doing, is something that doesn't concern the owner, as if there's something we're going to allow Hydro out there? The controlling owner is this hall right here, and it's actually this hall that says yes that Hydro can buy up Saga. The top real boss of what Hydro does is this hall, which is currently controlling 51 pst. of the shares. Then this majority in favour of Hydro buying must not pretend that it is the Director-General and the board of directors of Hydro who do. If this would want to exercise its ownership, you could say no, as the party's big crowd will do. So Kjell Opseth says that Saga came into play before Hydro made his offer. Well, what originally started to create this situation might as well be said was that Statoil – as many have said is the state's extended arm – began to buy shares in Saga. The first writings came when Statoil bought up to 20 pst. by Saga and one began to wonder what the purpose of the state was. So today, the intentions have appeared relatively clearly. The State, represented by the majority of the population – all except the Right Party and the Advance Party – wants to slaughter Saga. There is no credibility at Kjell Opseth when he says that he would like to keep the three independent environments. Had the Workers' Party joined the Right Party and the Advance Party, Saga was also preserved.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1667	After listening to the debate, I am certainly not strengthened in my belief that the majority parties have fully understood what is the main problem in this matter. It's not like Morten Lund and others say, that Right will forbid Hydro to live in Saga or other companies. That's not where the problem lies. The problem is not to give permission, as is stated in the settings I. When the representatives of the majority parties, in the same way as the Minister of Industry, state that this is an authority, but not an order, to quote one of the representatives, I have to ask why, in the name of heaven, one has not been content to have this as a mere remark, but even want it as a premise for the whole matter. Opseth says that this can only be taken and changed the balance of the state. You can sell the house and then take the money and move it to the bank. But that's not what this case is about. The point is to get the picture that it is the state that pays the invoice. It is the state that, through a political signal that this is a desired solution, puts the premises for the whole case, and that will send the whole case to the European Commission for final decision and opinion. Without political squabbling and interference, without political governance, this process had got its own way, on its own premises. It had this matter on it. Those who know the most about this, namely the shareholders of a private company, are likely to know more about business operations and at a level different from what this assembly can exhibit at that time, and would be the best ones to decide the future of Saga. But now this matter is being sent out on a very uncertain voyage, and it is not only Oslo Børs' board, but also the European Commission will have strong views on this. That's what the process is, and that's what's the main point in this case. There's a solution that the Right obviously doesn't want to be on.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1672	It is this hall that decides whether the Saga shareholders should have one or two potential buyers of their shares. Luckily, there's a majority to be able to choose between two. But the Right and Advance Party, who want to vote against I, will therefore prohibit Hydro from being a possible buyer, because Hydro cannot buy these shares without being allowed to expand their share capital. That's their recipe, which they've come up with. That recipe is not good enough for the Right. I understand that if the state's ownership of Hydro permanently goes down to 43 pst., this is okay for the Right. But if that doesn't happen, the shareholders in Saga will lose $10 per cent. the action. That's what the Right will decide. Now we don't need Right-wing support to ensure that the shareholders can choose freely between an offer that gives NOK 135 and an offer that gives NOK 125, one of which is linked to keeping Saga as a slightly expanded company, while the other is linked to Saga disappearing as a company. That opportunity is given to the shareholders today. They choose freely between two. I think that's a great way to make the market work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1679	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4147]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1687	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1693	During the debate, Mr Solheim, on behalf of the Socialist Left, put forward five proposals. In the course of the debate, Solheim has made it known that he wishes to submit the proposals to the Government without a motion for a resolution. They will then receive the introduction ‘It is recommended to the Government’. Proposal No. 1 sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the Government work to bring the WTO under the auspices of the United Nations bodies in order to ensure that WTO agreements do not undermine international agreements under the auspices of the United Nations.’.» Proposal No. 2 sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the Government work on the incorporation of ILO’s minimum labour standards, such as the prohibition of child labour, the prohibition of forced labour, the right to free organisation, the requirement of minimum wages, standards of health and safety, the prohibition of physical punishment, restrictions on working time, no discrimination based on race, sex, religion, sexual orientation, national affiliation, disability, or political or trade union affiliation, as part of WTO legislation.’; Proposal No. 3 sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the Government work towards the rules allowing derogations from WTO and CODEX standards. [[food quality standards]] Proposal No. 4 sounds in changed form: ‘The Government is advised to facilitate greater transparency in WTO negotiations and to promote greater transparency in WTO bodies.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended to the Government of the WTO negotiations to work for international fuel taxes.’.» The President proposes that the proposals be submitted to the Government without any rebuttal — and considers it to be adopted. The President will propose that the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the forthcoming WTO negotiations be annexed to the Protocol at the Storting meeting on 25 May 1999. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1766	Here, the Progress Party and the People's Party of Cross-Political Affairs have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1779	During the debate, Erik Solheim put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The proposed amount is increased by 650 million. I'll give you a total of 1 billion. The Government is asked to return to the Storting with plans and reports on the use of this money.’ The Committee had ceased: The 1999 budget shall be amended as follows: CapePostDestinationCroner0192Peace, reconciliation and democracy71Contributions to the former Yugoslavia and ODA-approved OSCE country may be transferred, increased by 350 000 000 from NOK 633 000 000 to NOK 983 000 000.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1834	An alternative is to vote between the vote and the proposal of the Socialist Left.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1961	The President has been made aware of an error in the settings recommendation. The correct maritime defence chapter number shall be 1732.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1973	In the course of the debate, nine proposals have been put forward. It's: the proposals No 1 – 4, from Øystein Hedstrom on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals No. 5 and 6, by Ansgar Gabrielsen on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 7 – 9, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposals Nos. 1 – 6 is included in the vote and the proposals No. 7 – 9 is distributed in the hall. There is a vote on the proposals from the Socialist Left, then on the proposals from the Progressive Party, then on the proposals from the Right, and finally on the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1990	A unanimous nutrition committee has said that it will expect to address various agricultural policy issues until we deal with the agricultural notification. We're going to treat it to the fall. Proposal No. 8 and 9, from SV, apply to such problem settings, and we therefore asked SV to send them to the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e1997	Karin Andersen nods – the President sees it so that the proposals no. 8 and 9, of the Socialist Left Party, have been converted into a transmission proposal, and the introduction is amended accordingly. Proposal No. 8 then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended that the Government introduce an upper ceiling for transfers for each use.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the Government establish a plan for the minimum of 10 pst for organic food production and organic products sold to the consumer. by the market.’» The President proposes that the proposals be submitted to the Government without a vote of the facts – and considers them to be adopted. The President will then vote on the remaining proposal by the Socialist Left, proposal No. 7th@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals on how to increase environmental taxes on, for example, sprays and fertilizers within the framework of the WTO Agreement and return money to increased ecologisation of agriculture.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e2023	We are voting on the proposals of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a gradual reduction in customs duties on imports of agricultural products with a view to achieving effective competition from industrial and developing countries in the Norwegian market.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for proposals to continue a system of tradable production quotas for cow’s milk so that all allowances declared for sale in 1999 are resold if possible. The scheme is not limited to local or regional level but is country-wide.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to side with the work of designing an auction system for the MUL imports of meat.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘a.Proposal for a new agricultural agreement is not accepted.b.Existing arrangements for agricultural agreements are repealed.c.The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for agricultural subsidies and other State financial measures to agriculture in the context of the ordinary government budget without prior negotiations.d.The Government authorises the Government to make agricultural subsidies available for the remainder of the current financial year with a framework of 2 550 million. krona lower than the approved budget capped. 1150 for the implementation of the agricultural agreement.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e2068	The proposals from the Right are being voted on. Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The net deduction from the agricultural aid scheme is raised to NOK 12 000.The agricultural development fund's reserve is reduced by SEK 100 million. Kroner Cape. [[(Chuckles) 1150 heading 50)]] 1150, entry 74 is reduced by NOK 476 868 000.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘1. The system for fixing milk production quotas is changed from administrative fixing to market-based fixing. 2nd@item: inlistbox In the case of the sale of the allowance, the price of all litres is paid irrespective of the size of the allowance. 3rd@item: inlistbox The current allowance withdrawal scheme exceeding 200000 litres from the producer wishing to end milk production is discontinued. 4th@item: inlistbox The ceiling for the maximum production of 130000 litres after purchase of the quota is removed, while maintaining the system of regional breakdown. 5th@item: inlistbox The system of primary turnover of production quotas at regional level shall be reintroduced.’;» The Progress Party has announced its support for these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e2346	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e2363	Here the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e2390	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's: proposal No 1, by Jan Sahl on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left Amendment No. 2 by Mr Stensaker, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 3 and 4, from Oddvard Nilsen on behalf of the Right. The President proposes that there should first be a vote on proposal No. 2. by the Progress Party, then by Proposals Nos. 3 and 4 from the right, then over the setting I, and finally alternately between the setting II and proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. – No objections have been raised to this, and this is how it will be done. Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘St.prp. No 66 Concerning the oversight and authority of aviation and the form of its connection to the Aviation Agency, it shall be returned to the Government.’» [[1998-99]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e2421	Proposal No. 3, from the right, is taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: «The aid consents to the Air Transport Agency being organised as a public limited-liability company from 1 January 2000 in accordance with the principles and general guidelines set out in St. prp. [[1998-99]] No 66
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e2434	Proposal No. 4, from the Right is taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Aeronautical oversight is placed under the Ministry of Labour and Administration.’ The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has announced that they will vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e2448	The President has understood that the Progress Party will now substantiate its position.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e2470	There is a proposal, No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to return, where appropriate, to the form of organisation and form of association of the Aviation Agency in the context of the 2000 budget.’ An alternative is to vote between the Committee's position and the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left. The President has understood that the Right will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e2514	Here the Progress Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e2546	Here the Progress Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e2584	During the debate, Mr Hagen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests that Statoil not be given the opportunity to purchase Saga Petroleum ASA or shares in fields owned by this company.’ The right has announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e2611	Here the Progress Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e2669	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17-2.ana.ud1175e2685	There is no record.
