ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e100	The representative of Svein Ludvigsen, who has been on leave, has again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For the State of Finmark: Inger Lise Balandin For the Rogaland County: Ingrid Fisaa For the Sogn and Fjordane counties: Reidar Sandal For Vestfold County: Trond Mathisen The application for welfare leave is submitted by the representative Trond Giske on Tuesday 15 June. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the meeting of the alternate of the Telemark County, Gunn Marit Helgesen, there is an application to be exempted from the meeting of the representative of the Ingvald Godals leave from 16 June to 18 June for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Telemark County: Kari Lise HolmbergFor South-Trondelag County: Tore Nordseth
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e154	Tore Nordseth is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e159	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e164	I allow myself to propose Asmund Kristoffersen and Bjarne Håkon Hanssen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e169	Asmund Kristoffersen and Bjarne Håkon Hanssen are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Asmund Kristoffersen and Bjarne Håkon Hanssen are unanimously elected as presidents of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e181	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 50 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Working Party 30 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left 10 minutes each and the Twist Party elected 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each party group, and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e192	The 1998 Annual Report of the Steering Committee on Intelligence, Surveillance and Security has given considerable attention to the fact that both the sample itself and the Minister of Defence asked the Stortinge to clarify the limitation in the description of the selection’s right of access to the secret services. I will come back to that, but initially there is every reason to stress that the members of the Supervisory Board carry out a very important task and that they have undertaken both a work-intensive and responsible task. There may also be grounds for recalling that in accordance with the Act on the Control of Secret Services Section 2, the purpose of the inspection is: to clarify and prevent any wrongs being committed against anyone, including ensuring that no more intervention is used than is necessary in order to ensure that the activities do not unduly harm society, ensure that the activities are conducted in the framework of legal,administrative or military directives and illegal law; Under the same law, the Committee of Supervisors shall respect the security of the State and the relationship with foreign powers, and the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of the European Parliament, acting unanimously, stresses the need to ensure, in particular, that the legal certainty of individuals and organisations is properly ensured. Both the Skauge Committee in NOU 1994:4, the control of the ‘secret services’, as well as the Justice Committee in its Innst. O. No 11 for 1994-95 stresses the need for mutual trust between the services of the one hand and the politicians and the people of the other. The Committee notes that the Court of Auditors’ practice of law and instructions as well as the composition of the sample must be ensured the necessary trust and integrity, both towards the Grand Duchy, the controlled services and the public. The Committee agrees to conclude that the annual report shows that there is still a need for an independent control committee and that the annual report submitted meets the requirements set by the Stortinget. In addition, the Committee considers that the control system may have contributed to the improvement of the procedures of the control committee. Indeed, it is positive that complaints received are more than halved from 1997 to 1998. There is reason to stress that the services themselves, and therefore their employees, carry out their duties in a broadly satisfactory manner for the safety of the Kingdom and for the legal certainty of individuals. The fact that the selection has found to be subject to prosecution must not overshadow the fact that the so-called secret services are of vital importance to all of us, and that the services have a very important mission to perform in order to live safely in a democracy and a rule of law. In the last year, the services have been subject to considerable criticism, but I now find reason to give recognition to directors and employees in the Defence Intelligence and Security Service as well as in the police surveillance service. In this way, there is every reason to note that POT’s management itself notified the Supervisory Board that several computer-based internal work registers had been established at the Monitoring Centre that had been unknown to management and that cannot be said to be fully compliant with the legislation. The Committee commends the monitoring manager’s initiative to inform themselves about these, in part, fairly comprehensive registers which have not been subject to control, either internally or externally. The Committee also notes that the overall impression of the Audit Committee is that, in the external sections of the POT, there is a high level of awareness of the legal security aspects of the activities carried out. Nevertheless, it is urgent to complete the lengthy alerted registration circular which should describe clearer rules and guidelines for the recording and recording of personal data. The control committee refers to their involvement in the so-called Lamark case and at the same time acknowledges that the control committee’s responsibilities do not include non-residents whose relations are related to the service of foreign countries. Thus, the matter lies outside the control mandate of the sample. However, the Committee does not have any critical comments on the handling of the matter by the panel, but the Committee stresses that the committee must exercise extreme caution in its control activities in such cases, since this activity has been entrusted to the government’s responsibility. But the Lamark case is in a grey zone, because, as the Control Committee itself quite correctly notes, the control law opens the sample by reference to Section 3, which obliges the sample to pay particular attention to matters that have been the subject of public criticism. I will now explain the question raised by the sample itself, namely the right of access of the sample to the secret services and the interpretation of the law and the instructions within which they will work. It is mainly a military intelligence service. I also refer to the setting, which also explains the process of downgrading different documents. The case was given a bit of an admirable cut, as the question was updated by a regulation prepared by the then Minister of Defence and the current committee leader, Jørgen Kosmo. The regulation was not made available to the sample, but there can be no doubt that the Council of State was not obliged to inform the sample of the letter. On the other hand, this could have been done as this relationship affects the monitoring exercise of the sample. Later, the letter has been downgraded and made publicly available. Let me mention, moreover, that the Presidency has assessed the rules on the viability of large-scale representatives on the basis of this case, and has, as in the past, maintained that instability occurs only in matters relating to the processing of their own powers, and in the matter of taking a position on the question of suing them for national law. As far as transparency is concerned, it must be acknowledged that the law and the instructions are not quite clear. That is why it was right for the Supervisory Committee, as well as for Minister of Defence Løwer, to ask the Stortinget to clarify how far the right of access goes. We have done that in this setting, but in any case, judgement and wisdom will be necessary in concrete matters. Paragraph 2 of the Act emphasises the security of the state and the relationship with foreign powers, and focuses on the fact that the services do not engage in injustice against anyone. Paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 of the instructions as regards the limitations of control, the limitations of transparency and the issue of transparency and control do not clearly define the scope of transparency. However, since the case was updated in a specific case related to the Intelligence Service, Section 111a of the instruction on supervision is relevant to quote, namely that the supervisory task is ‘to ensure that the business is kept within the defined tasks of the service and that no wrong is exercised against any’. Let me also underline the understanding that transparency in intelligence can create unnecessary tension in relation to cooperation with other countries' services, the more secrecy is essentially about protecting sources, methods and bilateral cooperation relations. The issue arose when the Audit Board wanted a general transparency in the activities of the Intelligence Service, including cooperation with the services of foreign countries over a two-month period. This is about very sensitive information relating to the security of the Kingdom and its informants, and it is about the confidence of other countries' intelligence services in the processing of information with due care in our country. The latter is of great importance at a time when Norwegian soldiers serve in peacekeeping and peacemaking missions abroad. It must also be emphasised that Norway’s ability to support our intelligence needs depends on the lack of detection of the e-service capacity, technological level and vulnerability. The majority of the Committee, all except SV, unequivocally states that the Committee's requirement of transparency in this particular case is not in accordance with the instructions. Thus, the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right have given their support to Kosmo, Færvoll and Løwer's perception of the Court's working conditions with regard to the right of access. In this way, this confirms the view of the Stortinge that the highest possible consensus is reached in the bodies of the Stortinge on matters of a defence and security nature, for the sake of the security of the Kingdom. The attitude therefore bears the hallmark that some formulations are consensus, yet precise enough to guide the Storting's own control committee as well as our secret services. Section 5 of the instruction limits the transparency of the selection to not seek more extensive transparency in classified information than is necessary for the purposes of verification. In addition, they shall respect, as far as possible, the protection of sources and the protection of data received from the rest of the world. The majority of the Committee – Workers’ Party, Christian People’s Party and Right – have argued in a joint note that § 5 and the Councils of State, Løwer, Fjærvoll and Kosmo’s understanding of the Court of Auditors’ transparency in the Intelligence Service as described in the correspondence attached to the suspension should be used as the basis for both the selection and the services. In other words, transparency is not unconditional and absolute. This is also the opinion of the Progress Party. If there is doubt or disagreement between the Control Committee and the services on the right of access of the sample, the matter shall be referred to the Minister of Defence. In the event of disagreement, the sample shall bring the matter before the Enlargement for final decision, and the sample may not require documents to be provided until the Stortinget has resolved the matter. The majority assumes that this view is the basis for future cooperation between the sample and the services. In the context of the proposals of the Progress Party, set out on page 10, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the majority of the Committee – the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right – agree on the content. Nevertheless, we see no reason to vote in favour of the proposal, as we have already clearly said this in our remarks. In other words, both the Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right join the defence ministers Kosmo, Fjærvoll and Løwer's understanding of the Committee of Inquiry's transparency in the E-service, as I have already said, from the correspondence contained in the vote, and I would like to point out that this is the basis for the work of both the Government and the Supervisory Committee in the future. In other words, it is a broad majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right, who have now found it necessary to restrict the right of access and clarify the purpose and handling of the law and the instructions. In this way, the majority has provided the necessary clarification process requested by both the Control Committee and the Government. I'm adding that I'm counting on both the Storting's control committee and the services, as well as the head of defense and the Council of State, to use the discretion and the wisdom necessary to avoid disputes that have to be settled by the Storting. Moreover, the whole committee points out that the Stortinge has decided that the control system should be evaluated before the end of this ageing period, and we are now given the opportunity to gain experience in the clarification of the size of the population today. The progress party has its own comments, and I assume that they will explain them in more detail. In reality, however, the whole committee, except SV, stands together to limit the right of access to the Monitoring Committee. I also assume that SV will explain their specific comments. As far as the Right is concerned, we found it necessary to express our satisfaction with the Minister of Defence, Mr Løwer, who at the Committee meeting on 9 June this year confirmed that, in the event of disagreement between the services and the Control Committee, she would refer the matter to the decision of the Stortinge. The same has also been said by the Progress Party, and now let me just add that it is interesting that the Christian People's Party has not shown the same confidence in its own government council. Finally, I would just like to briefly point out that the Supervisory Board at its head has participated relatively actively in the public debate on the annual report's treatment in Stortinget. There is reason to recall Section 12 of the instruction, which deals with communications to the public from the sample. There is also reason to recall the EOS Act § 8 paragraph. 2, which deals with communications to the Stortinget. And let me say it this way: it will undoubtedly serve all parties that the Control Committee and its chairman in their opinions are clearly sticking within the limits of the law and the instructions are drawing up. Let me touch two other points so briefly. First, there is an overall committee that emphasises that in the case of soldiers who meet for first-time duty, it is worrying that a significant number are denied protection clearance due to registrations from previous circumstances in the criminal and fine records. This will later have significant consequences for these young people, including in civil matters, and it is desirable that the defence should provide the soldiers with proper information on the consequences, but also on the remedies available and the possibilities for later clearance. This is a matter which the Committee on Control has highlighted and which the Committee on Control and Constitution considers important. I expect the Council of State to bear this in mind and follow up on the defence. With regard to more administrative aspects related to the activities of the Control Committee, the Committee has recorded the need for satisfactory locations, the updating of data facilities and an increasing need for expertise, especially in the field of telecommunications and data communications. I understand that this is improving, but I would like to stress that the Supervisory Board has an independent responsibility at all times to address such matters in the budgets and in action plans towards the Presidency of the Stortinge. In addition, I refer to the attitude of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs and recommend that the 1998 Annual Report be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e274	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e277	Let me first say that I think the case rapporteur was very clear in his statement on the matter. I think it would have been useful if the majority – the government parties, the Right Party and the Workers' Party – had been equally crystal clear in their comments on the understanding and full support of the Kosmo, Færvoll and Løwer Government Councils' understanding of the limitation of the right of access to the sample. In particular, I think it was nice that the case rapporteur now expressed that this understanding is also assumed by the majority to be valid for the future and both for government and for selection. Indeed, it is among the major weaknesses of the remarks that we are not dealing with the future, but just the past. I would ask the case rapporteur to confirm that the entire majority is behind what the case rapporteur has now said, and that he agrees that it is not that the sample has to have access to all relevant information, that is, that there is a restriction on the right of access to the EOS Committee. The second is whether he could explain what basis it is in our constitutional system or our legislation or rules of procedure when the majority ‘point out that the Committee of Control and Constitution should be informed that a dispute has arisen between the committee and the department’. Where do we find a kind of basis in our constitutional system or elsewhere so that a sample or administration can be given access to alert a trade committee in Stortinget, not the Stortinget or the Presidentship of the Stortinge? And in that case, if you absolutely wanted it, wouldn't it be more natural with the Defence Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e289	First, I would like to remind you that I explained that the Right felt it necessary in a special remark to be satisfied with the understanding and handling of the matter by Løwer. Having said that, I refer to the vote on page 10, which follows the proposal of the Progress Party, where the majority of the Committee consisting of the Right, the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party say that what the Progress Party has promoted in its proposal is behind, and has said earlier in the vote. That is why I spoke the way I did, and I believe that it is confirmed that this is a common understanding of it. So to another point raised by Mr Hagen, namely the wording of the vote by the majority calling for the ‘control and constitution committee to be notified’ between the time when the Council of State sets its feet down and the Grand Council is to clarify the transparency. It must be understood that, as the law and the instructions clearly state, it is the Storting, and then, in practice, the Presidency, to be notified, and that the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, as the committee responsible for the matter, will be dealt with next time. But it's the Stortinget and the Presidentship of the Stortinge are the right address.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e296	Not only the case rapporteur, but the whole of the Grand Duchy should now be satisfied with the broad majority behind important principles in the work of the EOS Committee, and in particular with regard to transparency. But it hung in a thin thread. There was considerable willingness to compromise in order to achieve this consensus, and in that process we simply have to state that, unfortunately, the rapporteur did not make any constructive contributions. On the contrary, with different input into the Committee, we were at risk of coming to Stortingen with different formulations on how to understand transparency. Statements from the case rapporteur that our remarks would imply a distrust of the State Council would be suitable for forcing the Christian People's Party into the fold together with the Workers' Party, the Right and the Advance Party. It was a tactic that failed, simply because there is no basis for it. Both the Council of State and we, who spoke on behalf of the parties here on the Stortinget, rejected this completely. With the contributions of the parliamentary leaders, active negotiations were held, so agreement was reached. But I admit that there were some important clarifications lost in the compromise. Nevertheless, we stand firm on the important principles. But then the case rapporteur later also tries to win the fight for understanding the compromise. To the evening post he says that he is happy that the Christian People's Party joins in what the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Right have always intended and stood for. I must then be allowed to ask the case rapporteur: How does the case rapporteur explain that the result of the compromise was that the Progress Party went out of the common understanding, that the SV has partly entered and that the Christian People's Party has joined? Does it show that the compromise is what the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party have always been in charge in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e303	In some cases, the less that is said, there may be an advantage. In this case I do not hide that I am surprised at the management of the government parties and that the representative Steensnæs wants to go extra round. But there can be no doubt that the compromise reached is quite far from the starting point of the government parties. The government parties themselves shared their comments at a press conference organized spontaneously in the hiking hall, and I can see that we have moved far from it – absolute transparency is no longer what the majority is behind. I would remind you that the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right have always insisted that the understanding that the three Councils have had, and that the right of access should be restricted, is what is now at the root of the position that has been given, and I would refer the representative Steensnæs to the note on page 10, where a ‘other majority, all except the members of the Progress Party and the Socialist Left’, points out that the proposal that the Progress Party has raised is behind us, but we see it as unnecessary to vote for it when it is set down so clearly in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e308	I am pleased that the rapporteur initially stressed the important role of the EOS Committee and the importance of this kind of control of the secret services. This case has a history, and in fact, the Right was a key party – perhaps the key party – in getting this control. Without the Right having helped to reduce the Lund Commission, it's my opinion that there would never be any Lund Commission. Petter Thomassen's role in getting this done during the work of the Lund Commission was absolutely crucial. A lot of work was done to get this on a good track. My opinion is also that the Storting in a short period of time wavered in this question. The majority of the Stortinget got swirled into Carl I. Hagen and the games of the Advance Party, got themselves into it voluntarily, just as we've been swirling into the opera bag and a number of other things instead of those parties that actually wanted the Lund Commission, who actually want a real control of the secret services, sat down and calmly found a solution that took into account both the security of the empire and a real control of these services. Now, fortunately, the final result was to live with, as the majority of the Storing got out of their quaking and agreed on a solution. The main credit for this falls to Einar Steensnæs, but also to the Workers' Party, the Right and the other central parties have contributed to this. So we've got a solution that's not ideal from SV's point of view, but it's going to live with. Finally, I would like to ask Ludvigsen something else. Grading of these documents should not be allowed to become a part of this game. Both Løwers and Kosmo's letters were originally graduated, even with relatively high degrees. One must assume that this allegedly was for the sake of the Kingdom’s security. But when these documents suddenly become part of the game in Stortinget, they can immediately be downgraded and open. My question to Ludvigsen is then: Had it not been reasonable that these documents were upgraded and opened already initially?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e319	As regards the downgrading of the documents currently set out in the setting as an attachment, they were initially graded. The majority in the Committee was of the opinion that there was no need for downgrading to deal with the matter as it stood, namely the question of restricting transparency, as the result has now been. But as the matter progressed, the committee decided that it would request that the documents be downgraded. They have been downgraded, and they have been shown in the configuration dialog. I don't want to wonder about it any more. We have access to the material that is necessary, and it had also been given to the whole Storting, regardless of whether it was downgraded or not.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e324	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e328	The size is well-satisfied with both the secret services and the way control works. The working party is particularly pleased that a total of large amounts of money agree on most of it – in the annual report of last year, as in the past – after the Stortinget set a point for the work of the Lund Commission. When so much of the attention from both the political and the media was concentrated on one point of disagreement, it is simply because it is a serious matter that the EOS Committee and Minister of Defence Løwer have asked the Stortinge to clarify. I'll come back to this. There are a few things I would like to mention about them that the Annual Report otherwise addresses. This is about the Lamark case and the side registers in the police surveillance service. Both issues are satisfactorily addressed by both the service and the sample. We agree with the sample that the monitoring manager should provide a general information to the sample on these types of issues. We also greatly appreciate the fact that the monitoring manager himself took action when it came to several computer-based personal records that had been established. It is also important that the EOS Committee follow up on this. The fact that this was discovered and reported gives us reason to believe that we now have an orderly relationship in the service. The decrease in the number of complaints also gives rise to optimism over the fact that the service is now functioning more properly. The instructions of the EOS Committee shall be evaluated during this ageing period. There is probably a need to make certain changes, but first we need a thorough review of the functioning of the control and possible weak regulatory aspects. So to the intelligence service and the conflict between the sample and three defence ministers. In the course of the case, it has become clear that very many know little about these services and mix the tasks of the various services. Some have a self-interest in precisely this to spread as much suspicion as possible and through the weakening of services. I don't think anyone in the committee wants the secret services to have full control. A robust majority of the Committee has always agreed with the necessary clarification. But I would like to add that I am somewhat surprised that Minister of Defense Løwer, who is the chief responsible of the defence, chose not to give the Stortinget a professional defence advice on what was the right thing to do in this matter – despite the fact that she has put herself on the same line as Kosmo and Færvoll in the letters. She has not yet made her opinion known to this day. The background to the dispute is whether the EOS Committee should have limited or unlimited transparency for its control function — a classic dispute of competence between a controlling body and the body to be controlled. What is unusual is that the EOS Committee did not accept that the Minister of Defence reserved the right to the kind of very sensitive information that would have to come to the selection through the Council of State itself, which I believe is a legitimate right for a Council of State that, after all, is the one who is constitutionally responsible for the actions of the Defence against the Storting. The decision may have direct implications for Norwegian defence and security policies and the lives and security of Norwegian officials. It should be expected that the EOS committee bowed to such recognition. They did not do so, despite the fact that the commission's instructions are clear that exceptions to the general right of access can be granted, but only in certain cases. Why else would it be a separate paragraph on this in the instructions? There has never been any discussion of any more general limitation. On the contrary, everyone has stressed that the exemptions should be completely minimal. That the Storting through the Presidency in the course of the proceedings found it necessary to downgrade the documents, showing how difficult such matters might be. Had everyone been involved in taking responsibility from the start, the downgrading could have been avoided. Parts of the EOS Committee's handling and letter writing could have been made more professional and less exciting. But the most important thing for Storting is, after all, to cut through and create the clearest possible guideline for the transparency of the sample. I hope that in other parties the debate on transparency in administration is not equated with transparency in the secret services. It was right to leave the decision to Stortinget, because it is a principle. The problem has been that it took time before everyone realized that the dispute of competence also concerned the trust of foreign services in Norwegian intelligence. Without this trust from cooperative services abroad, the lives of Norwegian soldiers can be put at risk by the fact that the lack of trust in Norwegian E-service can stop vital information, for example. that the lives of Norwegian soldiers and the safety of sources are at risk. You just need common sense to understand this. But it was not a matter of course for everyone here in the house in this process. The SV's point of view is not surprising, but is a wrong point of view compared to what became the vision of all the others. The width of the consensus was primarily important in relation to the Christian People's Party. For my part, I think that the SV's position on this matter is in stark contrast to their support for, for example. the Kosovo air war. Yes, there was even support for various international actions in which Norway participates with strengths. I therefore believe that SV's view here shows a lack of understanding that Norwegians in uniform abroad need protection. It's about trust in the Norwegian Defence Agency. Such trust we cannot decide that cooperative services should have access to us. On the other hand, we have to have a practice that provides total protection, and only a few in the E-service know the identity. From the Biggest side, it is important to have a wide-ranging sample that – subject to the best possible control instructions – works as intended. The discussion that has taken place around the sample member Ørnhøi further participation in the sample or not has been a complete blank track in this respect and has had nothing to do with the Committee's consideration of the matter. Here, we'll be waiting for the presidency's position. In this case, the parliamentary leaders of the parties which constitute the majority shall be given the credit for their efforts to find a common understanding. The main thing from the Workers' Party has been to get the widest possible consensus in the comments to maintain confidence in our military intelligence service. It is a fact that foreign services increase or decrease their confidence in the policy and credibility of the Norwegian government in such cases, and not in the light of changing majority comments in an annual report. This is the heart of this dispute. It is therefore important that we continue what has been an important element in the post-war period, namely that the Norwegian defense set-up is to be trusted. Furthermore, it has always been obvious to the majority that the Minister of Defence is accountable to Stortinget. This also applies, of course, to the contents of the letters written by various defence ministers from different parties and governments. There is no mysterious link between the members of the Government and the Stortinget. Similarly, it has been clear that the Storting’s own EOS committee can bring cases, including disagreements, to the Storting through the Annual Report or specific notice. That's a proof of that. The main point of the annual report of the EOS Committee is not just that the Storting should be familiar with the number of meetings, inspections and study sessions, the number of complaints and the number of pending cases. The selection may at any time address anything they wish. What should be crucial is the choice of a procedure that ensures the necessary integrity and credibility of all implicated parties. So I'd like to say a few words about this letter that is the background for the discussion of the limitations of transparency. First out was the former councillor Kosmo, then came state councillor Færvoll, who followed up Cosmo and agreed with his procedure, and finally came councillor Løwer. In her letter, I believe she goes further in both the use of words and the restriction of transparency, rightly linked to another matter, but the principle is the same: the control committee has limited transparency in very limited areas for the sake of the Kingdom’s security. The conclusions of the Control Committee are clear: we agree with all three defence ministers, and we have also put in a safety valve in relation to the Storting if we do not agree. But I would like to stress the importance of the selection and service having good cooperation and efforts to reach agreement. With regard to the proposal from the Progress Party, we will not vote in favour of this, because we believe that its purpose has already been respected. If the Progress Party had been involved in the joint comments, they would have been even stronger. But it's just to record that the second largest party will provoke a defeat on this proposal despite our agreement. The working party believes it is unwise and unnecessary. Hagen's dilemma is that they do not themselves take the constitutional responsibility for having a Minister of Defence and a government Progress Party does not trust in this matter. That is the problem of the Progress Party. The Council of State has confirmed during committee hearing that she will follow up the comments of the majority of the population, and these are in my opinion so clear that there is no need for them to be adopted in the form of decisions by the Workers' Party. If, in the future, a new Minister of Defence who had to disagree with his predecessors, I would recommend to him to reopen the matter in Stortinget. Finally, I would like to comment on the viability of the representative, Mr Kosmos, in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e370	I'm afraid that's not a good reason. Time's up. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e375	First, a question to the representative Husøy on the work on this matter, because the Stortinget witnessed a relatively eye-catching speech by the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party, who is not a member of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, but who nevertheless found it too good to criticise the rapporteur for work within the Committee as Mr. Stone snow per day. definition has no knowledge of. I would like to ask the representative, Mr Husøy, whether she wishes to express a similar criticism of the work of the rapporteur on this matter, whether there has been anything exceptional, or anything to put her finger on. I think it is important that it is clarified for those who are members of the Committee, as an outsider chooses such an alarming procedure. My second question is to get a complete clarification from the Workers' Party as to whether the Workers' Party also agrees that there is the understanding of the restriction of transparency expressed by the defence ministers Kosmo, Færvoll and Löwer, who are to guide the Government and the selection, perhaps especially for the selection, for the future. Is that also the perception of the Workers' Party? Does the Labour Party also foresee that what Minister of Defence, Mr Løwer, confirmed at the meeting of the Committee on 9 June, namely that, in a situation of disagreement, the Minister of Defence will refer the matter to the House, if necessary, and that is a line to be followed for the future, and not just a statement of what happened in the past?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e382	I'm going to try to answer the three questions that Mr. Hagen had, to the best of my ability. With regard to Mr Steensnæs' criticism of Mr Ludvigsen, there is no one else in the committee who has raised that criticism, and that is not the basis for this criticism. On the contrary, it has been commended by the Workers' Party to the case rapporteur for his handling of this matter. On the second question, whether the understanding is based on the fact that both the sample and the Minister of Defence will deal with our comments in the future, we fully agree on that matter. This is a forward-looking remark, and it was very important to get it clear from the Minister of Defence, which we have actually received. We also fully agree with the confirmation that has now been shown in several rounds that the Minister for Defence has already come, and I think it is all right that this is also being said here in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e393	I think that Inger Lise Husøy's posts are a good idea in describing how the EOS Committee should have progressed in the situation that has arisen. There is no doubt that the Storting has passed a law giving the EOS Committee unlimited access rights. It is stated in the law that it should have access to all the material in which it might be interested. It's also in the instructions. It is not that the instructions give the service to be controlled the right to withhold information, nor that the Minister of Defence has any role whatsoever, such as the law and instructions of the Grand Duchy have been adopted. So it would have been very alarming if the parliamentary control committee set up by the Stortinge had only been lorating like a poodle and said that this is quite fine. At that time, the Control Committee had not done the job that Stortinget had asked them to do. What has happened during the committee's discussion is that it has become very clear to everyone that it is the Storting that has the last word in this matter. It even says that the job the Minister of Defence will do is to refer the selection to the Stortinget. So the Secretary of Defense is not going to censor. This is a matter between Stortinget and Stortinget's own selection. I react very strongly to the description of a control committee, which has security clearance, which consists of members appointed by the Stortinget, as a far greater threat to the security of the Kingdom than that which the intelligence service in other countries actually poses. There are three countries that have a system like this, Switzerland, the Netherlands and Norway. If you look at the scandals that have been around the intelligence services of other countries — e.g. agents have posted names on the Internet of 100 agents in the same service — they are caused by crooked vessels in the E-services of these countries, which are under poor control, and not by a popular service.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e402	What is alarming in this round is the intensity and vocabulary of the representative Halvorsen, because in this case it is the SV that stands alone with its conclusions. We've asked for a clarification, and we've got it. Some of us have believed that this clarification was clear at first. It cannot be seen as a sensational fact that it is the Stortinget that has the decisive word in the relationship between a magnificence-appointed selection and the Minister of Defence – it is quite obvious. So here, there's none of the others in the Biggest or in the Biggest Control Committee that lodges like a puddle. Actually, there are quite other people who have done it in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e407	What I think is alarming, is that Inger Lise Husøy almost finds it critical that the matter has come up at all, and that when this dispute came up, the committee should only understand that it should have been corrected according to what the Minister of Defence said. This is not the law and instructions adopted by the Storting. What had also been alarming had been that it had not been clear that the Stortinget had the last word. Then we had a control system with a great degree of uncertainty, and one of the things that the Lund Commission taught us was that ambiguity just gives us poor control. Then I have to say that I think it is alarming if it is that the Workers' Party thinks it is right to use its speaking time in this case to describe a control system that Norway has – which is better than most other countries, and which may have contributed to our having fewer scandals in this area than other countries – as more uncertain, and then in relation to the scandals we have seen elsewhere. It actually means questioning yourself by the way the selected ones are cleared for security, and the way the Storting handles it. In fact, I believe that this is a far greater danger for E-service contact with other countries' E-services than the practice and the job that has actually been done in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e416	The starting point for the Workers' Party has been two aspects. One is that it was found very necessary and important to maintain the confidence of foreign intelligence in Norwegian intelligence. The second consideration that we've put great emphasis on is to have the widest possible consensus on this in the Stortinget. It's also about a completely minimal constraint, and we've underlined this in several rounds – a completely minimal constraint. That should be what can be essential for us not to endanger the life and security of soldiers and sources. There must be a direct relationship there. It is also stated in the instructions that there should be an opening to a restriction through the strict necessity of transparency and that source protection should be taken into account. Already there we have the opening of this constraint.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e425	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e428	If the EOS Committee had followed up the whole of the law, the regulatory system and the committee's comments, i.e. the Storting's guidelines for the activities they were supposed to carry out, we would not have had any heated debate in Stortinget today. That is my clear conclusion on the review of this case. Some have wanted to deal exclusively with a law paragraph or an instruction paragraph that says one thing, and chooses to ignore other elements of the law and instructions. They have chosen to ignore the fact that the last time Stortinget dealt with the matter of control of the Defence Intelligence Service, Stortinget, in the form of a note from the Defence Committee, gave clear limits on what the EOS Committee was going to do to the Defence Intelligence Service. Had the sample followed it, we would not have had a case today. However, some in the sample were clearly more obsessive in the service. And of course, it can be because when the selection was designed, it was made into a party-politically complex selection, where, through its participation, one could engage in party-political activity. In particular, it appeared in the so-called Furre case, which was not a matter at all, but as the selection managed to create a case based on party political motives. You have to look back at history, many have mentioned, and I fully agree with that. The background for the establishment of the Lund Commission and the whole of the Lund Commission's work were persistent allegations from the left about significant illegal surveillance of Norwegian citizens, put on stage by the police surveillance service. It was to remove the possibility that the so-called secret services would intercept and persecute ordinary Norwegian citizens that the EOS Committee was appointed, and the same was true of the Lund Commission. What public attention has been about has not been the police surveillance service; there has not been any suspicion of illegal or incorrect surveillance of Norwegian citizens, no, it has actually been the defence intelligence service. And what did the Lund Commission say about the defense intelligence service? Well, that it had done nothing wrong, they had found nothing to put their finger on. It was the one that was most acquitted by the Lund Commission. And they're making it easy. They created new interpretations of the law to make criticisms, and they did a lot of strange things. I'm just going to refer to our comments, what we said, in connection with the Lund Commission, and to the so-called Furre case. When, in addition, the Storting takes up the dangers of our cooperating services in other NATO countries through unanimous comments in the position of the Defence Committee, the Norwegian intelligence system because too much is being opened up to a party political composite EOS committee, the alarm clocks should have germinated with members of the sample – not all of us, I guess none of us would expect it, but a clear majority. In addition, the sample in the last year could have noticed that some time ago the Storting changed the rules for the appointment of the EOS Committee. Just in order not to have a party-politically appointed selection where each party-group in the Stortinget sovereignly appointed the member they themselves wanted, and assigned positions based on the size of the Stortinget, the system was changed so that it would be the Presidentship of the Storinge to cancel. And they would not take into account party political ties, on the contrary – there would be people with more professional integrity. If you had also perceived that signal, you would of course not have made a case out of the answer you received when you asked for insight into the Defence Intelligence Service, and especially in cooperation with the foreign services – as it has recently come to light – that a unanimous defence committee had just pointed out that we had to keep a secret about it. And then SV says that now we have upgraded the letters. Yes, just that in itself, that the first and the subsequent letters about the possibility of a party-politically complex control committee being given access to the most secret things in the Defence Intelligence Service, is enough to lose confidence from abroad. That is why a full dishes in Stortinget have become necessary. It is therefore necessary for a majority of the Grand Duchy to make clear clearly that there is a restriction on the right of access to the selection of the defence intelligence service. That government party here in Stortinget was about to enter, namely to create this ambiguity, would have been detrimental to the security of the Kingdom and the safety of Norwegian soldiers, especially during duty abroad. It was the damage that had already happened, and it was a question of whether one could cooperate with the Defence Intelligence Service, which made it necessary to downgrade, in order to establish that there are three defence ministers who have made clear compromises and said no. It had to come out because the comments of the Christian People's Party, with press reports and press statements, created this uncertainty. That's why they asked for these letters to be upgraded, to state that although the government parties were not quite to trust in the Stortinget, at least the government and the defence minister were to trust. That was what was necessary when we asked to upgrade these letters, in order to restore confidence in Norway and the Defence Intelligence Service. I think I'll just be very careful to quote from a few of these letters by Minister of Defense Løwer writes about the last request for inspection from the sample, to get all the material presented for a two-month period of foreign services. This, of course, is completely contrary to the overall guidelines of the Grand Duchy for the sample. I don't understand which party policy interests some of the sample's members should have to ask for something like that. The Minister of Defence said in one of the letters, paragraph. 3rd@item: inlistbox ‘I find the type of inspection this is very unfortunate in relation to partners abroad. In practice, such a control activity would go beyond the intentions of the laws and regulations referred to in paragraph 1. 2nd@item: inlistbox I find it difficult to see that due account is taken of the protection of data received from abroad and the relationship with foreign countries. Similarly, it seems doubtful whether all the material requested to be available is necessary for the purposes of control.» She says in an earlier letter about the E-service's dependence on sources and the relationship with the foreign services we cooperate with: ‘Similarly, the E service depends on sources that provide information based on the fact that their identity should not be disclosed. The personnel included in the occupation standby must also be able to rely fully on the non-disclosure of their identity. Such protection of the identity of sources is crucial in a number of important issues.If the identity of sources is to be made known beyond an extremely limited range, there is therefore a real danger that access to information will stop, and in some cases the security of sources will be threatened. The material concerned does not include conditions that are part of the control purposes of the EOS Committee.’;» Very clear speech from Minister of Defence Løwer. In spite of these warnings, the government parties in Stortinget will at some point introduce full transparency at the discretion of the sample, a judgement that they have shown not enough adults to take, in the last few requests, and then it is necessary for the Storting to put these things in place. The Progress Party has tried to maximise its contribution to a broad majority within the Committee. But it was unfortunately necessary for us at the end, in order to prevent a slipping and ambiguity in the wrong direction, to write our own comments. It was also necessary to promote a separate proposal – which I hereby allow myself to raise, President – because there is one thing that has been agreed by both the committee, the defence and the defence minister. It is one thing that they have been crystal clear both in meetings with the Committee and in the public debate. – Let me shoot in: Of course, the public debate will not take place at all. The communication from the sample should be to the Stortinget, and they have nothing to discuss publicly either the Stortinget or their own role. It's not the type of sample it should be. They have also been informed of this. The start of a dialogue and a debate, with criticism of its sponsor, Stortinget, whom the chairman has allowed, is obviously disqualifying in itself. But what these have agreed on is that they have asked the Storting for a clarification, for a very clear explanation of how this should be. The main question has been: Is there any restriction on the right of access of the sample, or is it not? And if there is a dispute, how should it possibly be resolved? A fully qualified selection I don't think there would have been any dispute with at all, but it's another case. But if there's a dispute, of course, it's the constitutional rules that come in. There are people who suddenly say that the Minister of Defence has no role – hear that! It is clearly the Minister of Defence who has his constitutional role. It is the Minister of Defence who is constitutionally and parliamentaryly responsible to the Stortinget. You can't sell out a defense minister. But what we've done in the committee is to make sure that if, in the future, there may be a disagreement between the head of defence, the E-service and the selection, the Minister of Defence and future Ministers of Defence will automatically refer the selection to the Stortinge. That is what is in the whole of the legislation, the sample shall inform the Storting by means of its annual report or a specific notification of what they believe The Storting should be familiar with. But in such a situation, the Minister of Defence, as confirmed by the Council of State, Mr. Løwer in the meeting of the Committee, will give the head of defence and the E-Chair right there in the case in question, by referring the selection to take this up with the Stortinget. And then it's the ordinary systems that apply. That was what made us very happy. And we wanted to establish – and we do it in the form of a proposal – that it will also apply to the future until the Storting has gone through the law, the instructions and the regulatory system, when we evaluate this whole system at the end of this ageing period. It has been mentioned from several that the majority really agree with the proposals of the Progress Party, but they do not think it necessary to vote in favour. That's what I thought you ended up with a couple of years ago. There are a lot of proposals here in the Storting that many parties say that they really seem unnecessary, but since they agree with the content, they have to vote in favour. Now, all of a sudden, you have to say that this proposal is not really necessary, but you agree with the content, so you are voting against it. Understand that logic, whoever can. If that's how you write on page 10 of the setting, we're very happy that our proposal provoked this additional information from the majority: ‘This majority would stress that these comments clearly underline the same points of view contained in the proposal.’ This is a sentence which did not appear there before the proposal was made in the committee. So it seems a little bit clarifying. But where is the logic if you want to vote against? Then it should be a curative matter, a perfectly curative, normal matter, to do as all the parties in this magnificence do many times every week, namely to vote in favour of the proposals of other parties, because they agree. Because even if they did not have reason to make a proposal, there is no obstacle to voting in favour of a proposal that they share.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e483	Will the representative address the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e486	That is what the representative did, Mr President!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e491	Carl I. Hagen has taken up the suggestion he has referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e496	There may not be an answer to Hagen's call for logic, but there may be a distinction between those who have government experience and not, as to what logic you choose. It has become very clear that we agree on the matter. The representative Hagen has heard both the rapporteur and my own clarifications of what is policy from today on, and the Council of State has promised to follow up. It's also very clear in the papers that we have. I want to focus a little on the proposal that Hagen is still choosing to make. What does the Progress Party achieve – or the case, for that matter – with a proposal that is being voted down today? What separates the Progress Party from the other parties in terms of political intelligence in this particular matter? I think that in the post was a bad explanation for that. When will Hagen take on board the consequence that he does not trust a Minister of Defence in a government that the Progress Party forms the parliamentary basis for this House?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e505	Let me first make it clear that the Advance Party does not form part of the government's parliamentary basis. The parliamentary basis of the government is based on the party groups of the Left, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party, and no one else. Nor has the Labour Party ever promoted – as far as I can recall – any mistrust of the current government, but I must say that it is just as logical to say that the Workers' Party belongs to the Government's parliamentary basis. In a number of major cases, unfortunately, the government gets a majority with the Workers' Party. So you could use it both ways. Then to the proposal. As I said at the end of my post, we are well pleased that we have achieved some additional comments that relate to the future, which had been forgotten by the majority in the past. In itself, it has defended more than enough the design of the proposal. I can quite clearly say that yes, I am well pleased with the views expressed by the rapporteur, and therefore also the Right, and I am very pleased with the views expressed by Mr Husseøy on behalf of the Workers' Party. But I'm a little excited about what Einar Steensnæs means. I have the impression from the public debate that he has a completely different interpretation of these remarks from that of the Right and Labour Party. I should not be surprised if this also applies to the Center Party, which I believe has been in the scenes in this matter quite strongly. And it'll be exciting to hear the left. But it's clear that if they're as crystal clear, with the same content as the Working Party and the Right, we'll of course consider the justification for bringing the proposal to voting. I assume that if there is a great deal of ambiguity, maybe the Right Party as well, and the Labour Party too, it makes sense to have the proposal adopted, in order to remove the uncertainty that perhaps the future speakers can create.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e514	I'm afraid I can't finish up with the representative Hagen in a short line, so I think I have to get back to some of what Hagen said, with some questions. So the Progress Party is outside this big deal and is accusing the majority of people of creating ambiguity. I am afraid that the comments of the Progress Party – and the proposal – also create confusion. Many of the comments of the Progress Party will, of course, be a cross-political agreement. But the Progress Party is trying the well-known technique of declaring unconditional trust in the Council of State, thereby indirectly giving the impression that, for example, Government parties should have a more lukewarm attitude. That technique doesn't work. There is absolutely no difference in reality in what the Council of State has written to the Storting, in relation to what the government parties stand for. Hagen also declares in the Storting that the Christian People's Party has at one time submitted comments that do not bear the light of the day, and that should be such that the country's security was in danger, yes, more than that; the country's soldiers would be threatened if the principles laid down by the Christian People's Party in its original observations were to be upheld. I'm going to be happy to downgrade – whether we can use such an expression – these comments, for those who might be interested in seeing them. They're not at all in the vicinity of what Hagen is now trying to create an impression of. Now, time is running very fast – one question to the representative Hagen: Does Hagen’s proposal mean that the Progress Party believes that if the E-service or the Defence Security Service at any point during the request for access to the EOS Committee should find out that this goes beyond the mandate of the EOS Committee, should this necessarily go to the Stortingen for preparation and review?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e525	To take the last one first: this is the same system that we have in other areas, it's not hard, it is! If the Riksrevision believes that the answers they have received to the checks they have carried out are such that the Stortinget should be informed, the Riksrevision Stortinget informs. The same applies to the Civil Ombudsman. It is clear that if the sample asks for things, and they are told that no, this is outside the selection's right of access, this does not get the selection of us, and the Minister of Defense, who may be brought in, will say that then the selection will go to the Stortinget. The contracting authority is therefore the Stortinget. The sample shall notify the size of the sample itself. But the selection is supposed to use the head. Of course, the selection should not possibly bring all the small things, it would be pointless, but it is the sample itself that is sovereign as to what they want to notify the Storing. That's of course, and it's been the whole time. That's also why we have this case. The committee, through its annual report, has informed Stortinget about something. So Steensnæs says that much in the comments of the Progress Party is the cross-political agreement. Why in the world couldn't you join it? Why, then, was it to do for the Christian People's Party not to join it, if it is such that they really agree? After all, most of the comments of the Progress Party have been known in the Committee at least one and a half weeks – even if they were formally submitted as the Progress Party's special comments at the end. If there was a cross-political consensus on that, why has the Christian People's Party done something completely different? In the comments that the Steensnæs party submitted, and which he thus acknowledges – I do not tend to go back to previous attempts, but he himself opens up – they said crystal clear that if there was a disagreement between the sample and the E-Chief, Minister of Defence and Defence, it was the discretion of the selection that was in force. It would have made it so that there was a danger to the security of the Kingdom, because we would have lost any contact with cooperative services.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e532	The representative Hagen said he was excited to hear the representative Steensnæs, and I am not hiding that the tension is rising for more. So I would like to thank Hagen for his satisfaction with the comments of the Right. At the same time, however, he criticises the fact that we cannot vote in favour of the proposal. I see that it's a question of how to express one's position. I accept that the Progress Party has expressed its views in a special note and in a proposal. But the realities are consistent with the views of the majority, the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right. There is no doubt that the facts of the case have been established in the observations of the majority. We have limited transparency, and we have put in a procedure for cases of disagreement. The majority have rejected that there should be absolute transparency, we have rejected the fact that there should be unrestricted access to all relevant information, and we have clearly stated that the Control Committee can be denied transparency in specific cases when conflicts occur. Then my question is: is it not that the Progress Party, when it comes to the realities of the matter, fully agrees with the majority? Can Hagen confirm that? I think it's a central question for the sake of understanding this, that there is such a broad majority in the Storting that now has limited transparency.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e541	I can confirm that with pleasure. Of course, everyone who is awake will also see this, because our proposal has been drawn from the comments of the majority. But it has been added, because the comment itself can – I don't know if it will, but it can – be interpreted by some to be concerned with the past and not the future. That is why we have said in the proposal that this is also true for the future, both for the Government and the EOS Committee. Nor does the majority comment state that it concerns both the Government and the EOS Committee. That's one of the uncertainties. The second reason for our proposal, and that we have some own views, is exactly the same as for the Right's own particular comment, which is identical to our comment. The right has a special comment where it says: ‘This member’ – now I read from the Right’s comment where it is only ‘this member’ and not ‘these members’ – ‘will stress that it is only when agreement is not reached that the matter should be referred to the Minister of Defence. This member is also pleased that the Minister of Defence at the meeting of the Committee on 9 June 1999 confirmed that, in such a situation, the selection will be referred to the Stortinget.’.» Some of the problem just occurred because it was also necessary for the Right to have it as a special comment, because it was not included in the majority's comment. Steensnæs said instead that you could join large parts of it. Then why wasn't he in on it? It must be a purpose that the Christian People's Party insists not to include this in the majority opinion. That uncertainty is again the Christian People's Party which creates, and which made us think it necessary to try to help by promoting a proposal, which I am very pleased to have already made a new remark from the majority, so that it has become far better than it was before we promoted our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e552	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e555	In this case, which has the 1998 Annual Report of the Steering Committee on Information, Surveillance and Security Services as the starting point, there are two factors that have created the basis for a wide-ranging debate on the working conditions of the sample. The first concerns a letter from the then defence minister Jørgen Kosmo, who he wrote to the chief of defence on 18 April 1997. The letter provides detailed guidance on how the intelligence service manager should behave in the event that sensitive information is requested which, in the opinion of the E service, should not be provided for safety reasons. Such information can then be withheld and the selection should be referred to the Minister of Defence, according to this letter. In the Christian People's Party, we have no comments on such a warning mechanism, but such a warning cannot, in accordance with the applicable legislation, affect the right of access to all the relevant information which, at the discretion and discretion of the sample, as long as this occurs within the framework of adopted law and instructions, can be assigned to the sample. In our opinion, however, this instruction from the Minister of Defence should be made known to the sample to our advantage. The second case concerns a notified inspection by the Defence Overcommand/Postal Staff on 25 May of this year, where the sample wanted to have access to all material exchanged with foreign services for a limited period of time. In this case, Minister of Defence Løwer has clearly stated that she considers this type of inspection, with such an unspecified transparency criterion, as very unfortunate in relation to the foreign powers with which Norway cooperates, and thus outside the scope of the control activities as regulated by law and order. A broad majority, including the Christian People's Party, have agreed with the Minister of Defence in this view. In the light of these two cases, a more fundamental debate has been raised on transparency and the discretion the EOS Committee should exercise during its control activities. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to stress that the work of the EOS Committee must be organised in such a way that there can be broad trust in society that the control function is exercised in a reassuring and thorough manner. An essential condition for this is that the EOS Committee has an unabated right of access to all relevant documents and information, as long as the control activities take place within the framework of adopted law and instructions. That is what the Christian People's Party has also written in its previous comments. The law permits the selection of the right of access to administrative archives and registers, to premises, installations and installations of any kind, as expressed in the law. However, the restrictions are laid down in the clauses 4 and 5 of the instructions. Section 5 mentions, inter alia: the EOS Committee ‘must not seek more extensive transparency in classified information than is necessary for the purposes of verification. It shall respect, as far as possible, the protection of sources and the protection of data received from the rest of the world.’.» This provides a framework for the activities of the sample. Thus, it is a fairly comprehensive and general mandate of the EOS Committee to be able to obtain relevant information. However, the limitations of transparency in the exercise of the control function, as regulated in Sections 4 and 5 of the instruction, impose on the selection a duty of special care, such as: as regards sensitive information on the security of the State and the relationship with foreign powers. However, within this clear framework, the EOS Committee must have access to all relevant information during the exercise of its control activities. Relevant information must be seen in this context in the light of the limitations of Sections 4 and 5. It also stated in the instructions that the sample should respect, as far as possible, the protection of sources and the protection of data received from the rest of the world, and that the sample should also organise its activities in such a way that the control activities are of minimum benefit to the ongoing activities of the services. These formulations show that even with regard to the more sensitive and highly classified information that has been archived, the sample – under the responsibility of exercising a necessary judgement under Sections 4 and 5 – has access to all relevant documents. This should be stated by the Storting. This should be extremely careful in tightening up the size of the sample, given the trust that it should have in the work, evaluations and conclusions of the sample. Thus, the fact that the instructions impose a high level of caution and critical review on the requirements for access to documents as regards the Kingdom’s security and the relationship with foreign powers cannot be interpreted as a right for the administration to refuse access to such documents. This is essential. However, questions may be asked whether the legislation specifies a sufficiently clear and reassuring procedure when there is a dispute about transparency. In such cases, it must be emphasised that the sample itself has the ongoing responsibility to exercise the necessary judgement. The committee is not under the direction of either the administration or the relevant State Council, but has its mandate and is directly responsible to Stortinget only. This has been an important point for us. Therefore, neither the administration nor the responsible State Council can finally settle such a dispute on transparency. Ultimately, this can only be determined by the Storting itself. It is such a procedure that the majority has now described in their comments, and that I am satisfied with has come in. During the time necessary to settle such a dispute, it is natural that the sample cannot require the documents in question to be supplied. In the press, this has been interpreted as the Stortinget has now tightened up and restricted the right of access. I do not agree with that. A clear constraint would be if, for example: the management, as the Progress Party now argues, or, for that matter, the Council of State, with definitive effect, could almost refuse the selection of transparency in the relevant documents. Yes, here I have to correct, that was not what the Progress Party said, but that the administration, that is. The e-service or the head of defence could have unlimited access to appeals against any dispute on this matter directly into the Storting. But luckily, there's none of this that's now being added up to. If the State Council responsible cannot accept the request for transparency, the Stortinget and Stortinget alone can clarify such a situation. Therefore, this cannot be interpreted as a restriction on the right of access of the sample in addition to that already provided for in Sections 4 and 5. The majority have only tried to outline a procedure for resolving such a dispute without affecting the clear mandate of the panel. In fact, this naturally follows the role of the Grand Duchy as a contracting entity and legislator, which will be able to clarify and assess at any time a specific situation when disputes arise between the administration and the selection of transparency in documents. That's the department, i.e. The Council of State, considering that transparency cannot be granted, can clarify this. What would be unacceptable is, for example, on the service subject to control, this was without further delay given the direct opportunity to raise the matter with Stortinget in addition to what the annual report opens for. This is where I come up with the proposals of the Progress Party, as they have formulated this. I also think there is reason to recall that all members of the EOS Committee, by law and by instructions, should be cleared for the highest level of security nationally and under the treaties with Norway. Therefore, a person should be able to assume that all classified information will be handled by the sample with the same confidentiality and in the same reassuring manner as expected by the employees in the service who are otherwise entrusted with access to the same documents. I believe, for my part, that such trust in confidential information is a crucial prerequisite for the sample to carry out its tasks in line with the Storting assumptions provided by law and instructions. I am pleased with the broad consensus we have now reached on important principles for the work of the EOS Committee. I would like to admit that I should have seen a greater degree of emphasis in terms of the clear right of access to all relevant information, as I said, limited only by the law and instructions and the important precautions contained in sections 4 and 5 of the instructions. The selection has a clear need to establish that they have the Trust and authority of the Stortinge to exercise their important control function on the basis of what is formulated in instruction and law. The critical feedback of the sample in a specific case in terms of its understanding of the exercise does not alter the mandate of the sample, but must result in the sample adjusting the understanding of how the control function should be exercised in relation to particularly sensitive, highly classified documents. I am pleased that we have got this broad agreement, where both the Workers' Party, Right and SV together with the Christian People's Party are at least behind important parts of the joint comments.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e592	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e595	The primary position of the Christian People's Party is already known in the debate, and the representative Steensnæs contributed to it. The conclusion is that the judgement of the sample is unlimited. My question is related to a press release that I received from the same Mr. Steensnæs when we came out of the chamber after giving the setting. It states that Einar Steensnæs ‘rejoices with the important clarification of the rights of access to the EOS Committee’. He goes on to say: ‘When I have fought so hard to have a majority for such an understanding, this is due to the unconditional trust that we should have in the EOS Committee working in line with adopted law and instructions’... ‘Then the selection must have access to all relevant information’. The representatives of the Christian People's Party in the Committee on Control are on a note stating that they: «agrees the understanding of the three Ministers for Defence referred to above. Transparency of the EOS Committee in the E service as demonstrated by the attached correspondence from them in this case’.» My question to the representative Steensnæs, who is happy to have fought so hard, is whether he still agrees with his party interests in the control committee and in the comments, which I believe is the compromise that we actually reached.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e612	Yes, the Christian People's Party is behind the comments. I have personally been involved in this work, which Mr Husøy will know about, because it was raised at parliamentary level. It was therefore not as foreign to the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party as Mr. Hagen would have it in a line earlier. But I am probably afraid that the representative Husøy is not accurate enough in his questions. She said that I had stated that «the discretion of the committee is unlimited». Where did she get that? The judgement of the committee shall be exercised under responsibility, in particular, with reference to sections 4 and 5 of the instructions. There is a special responsibility for the selection, which is also related to the security of the Kingdom and the relationship with foreign powers. Should that discretion not follow the intentions of the law and the instructions, a procedure has been agreed to by common agreement that will ultimately make the Storting decide this. I say in my press release that this is important because of the unconditional trust that we should have in the work of the sample. Would the representative Husøy have a conditional trust? In that case, I would like to ask you what conditions you want to put to this trust. The representative of Husøy, together with all the parties in the control and constituencies committee, has, on the contrary, agreed that it is important that the sample has a broad trust in society during the exercise of its control function. In fact, it's all about the parties, and it's important. It is a fundamental prerequisite for the sample to do its job and create the necessary confidence that these services are controlled in such a way that they come under democratically elected governance and control.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e621	After hearing the representative Steensnæs' posts, I am more than surprised, I am almost shocked. What seems to be an agreement no longer seems to be there after hearing the article. So there must be a significant difference between what is written in the notes and what the representative Steensnæs has done in this context. In my opinion, the representative Steensnæs is with both legs solidly planted in the enclosure that was placed in the secret services of the previous staging, and it must be the eel of the sour ant that still vibrates in the representative's nostrils. When we come to what has happened since the last time, I understand that there has now been a need to review the limitations of the scope of action of the EOS Committee in relation to the Intelligence Service. It is also true that at the time the Defence Committee gave its opinion on the Innst. O. No 19 for 1997-98 on the Law on Intelligence, there was an overall committee, including Mr. Steensnæs" party traps, which went in to emphasize the very importance of the secret services of cooperating countries, because this is about security for our soldiers and officers abroad. We're totally dependent on getting that kind of information. That is why it is right that several defence ministers have so clearly underlined it. They have read and understood the odelstation setting, while Mr. Stone sneeze seems to put this aside. And then my question becomes: Is the consideration of Norwegian soldiers and officers serving abroad, for example, of minor importance to Mr. Steenslæs and Christian People's Party than the EOS Committee's prestige? Then, in order to clarify one absolutely necessary thing, I would ask: is it so that the representative Steensnæs, and perhaps also the Christian People's Party, agree with the intentions of the proposal of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e636	I must begin by saying that I will take a sharp distance from the impression that Mr. Red soils are now trying to create, that there should be a contrast between a sound, good and trusting execution of the work of the EOS Committee on the control of the secret services and the consideration of necessary security for our soldiers and their lives. I would have asked myself that suggestion, because there is nothing at all in our remarks that is close to creating doubt that the information the sample is entrusted with through its control function will be dealt with in such a way that it would in any way affect the Kingdom's security, the security of our soldiers, or the concern of the foreign powers with which we are to cooperate. I spent so much of my time in the post on this that it should be completely unnecessary for the representative Røss soil to travel this in a line, which I guess was not completed. Then I just have to say, when questions are asked about why we can't agree with the comments of the Progress Party, that it's possible to turn this around. It's the majority that's formulated together, and it would be reasonable to turn the tile around. But the reason that there is still a significant distance is precisely this that the Progress Party will create restrictions beyond what is already provided for in Sections 4 and 5 of the Law and Instructions, by the fact that the E-service or the Defence Manager should have such a function that an disagreement about transparency could directly end up in the Storting for non-Government ruling. This is completely unacceptable. If the service to be tested and checked knows that it can then ‘true’ that this is for the Storting unless the sample behaves according to the legislation, yes, it will inevitably result in the sample exercising a completely different precaution during the control work than we want.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e643	The representative Røsjorde said he was almost shocked by the representative Steensnæs, but unlike the representative Røsjorde, I have good nerves, so I am hardly surprised any longer at what Steensnæs says in this case. He presents it almost as if it is a Christian People's Party that has dragged the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party in the direction of limitations. He presents it as if the rest of the majority would have wanted or proposed that we break law and order. Therefore, I have to ask Steensnæs to confirm that the understanding of what we have done is that it is a restriction, not a full insight that he is trying to give the impression of, and that he can confirm that it is the Workers' Party, the Right and so far the Advance Party that has made the government parties move towards defining and describing the limitations of the right of access. Steensnæs said he could degrade the notes that they had made. There's no need for that, because they were distributed by Steensnæs himself at an early stage. I'm not going to refer from them. I ask the representative Steensnæs at least to confirm that it is not the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Right who have moved away from absolute transparency, the unrestricted access to all relevant information, and that the sample cannot be denied access to all documents. It has never been the view of the majority, so one should not try to present it as if it were the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party that have moved towards the Christian People's Party. That is why I understand that Steensnæs in his press release says that he is pleased with the important clarification, but we have therefore contributed to that joy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e652	The representative Ludvigsen continues this exercise on understanding the compromise. I remember it's a compromise. I also remind you that in the original draft, the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party stood together. That's not an information I've dated. How this happened was something that the representative Ludvigsen himself could communicate in the Political Quarter on the radio. I also remind the representative Ludvigsen that the Progress Party no longer finds itself able to stand with the majority, and I would ask that Ludvigsen, as I have said, downgrade the remarks that Ludvigsen originally made. Then we'll have to evaluate how you've moved. I admit that the wording we now have, in no way, is completely as we would wish, with the clarifications and underscores that I would have liked to have said there, as a clear explanation of how this was to be understood. But I am pleased that we have established important principles. Similarly, I assume that Ludvigsen is not entirely satisfied with what is now being formulated. It would be natural to admit it, as it is a compromise. I would also like to ask why in many meetings and for many days to find a compromise, if it wasn't because we had to meet on something that was a common platform, a common stand, which established the main principles, but which left a part of the individual party itself to provide markings and underscores. When it comes to what Ludvigsen is after, that I'm kind of going to establish that there are limitations, I'm going to say that I've never doubted that it is. It is stated in the title of Section 4 and Section 5 of the instructions that there are limitations on the transparency of the selection. What I have been concerned about – and what is now established – is that there should be no restrictions beyond what has just been established in the law and instructions §§4 and 5.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e661	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e664	The part-hearted debate on the 1998 annual report of the EOS Committee has been mainly a debate on the limitations of the right of access to the sample, and the attitude of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is also evident. The opinion shows that the Committee has faced difficult balances, where the need for the right of access of the EOS Committee and the majority's wish for a broad political consensus on the main principles has been given decisive importance in the Committee. The Centre Party, which is not represented in the Control and Constitutional Committee, considers it important and positive that a broad majority of the Committee endorses the principle that, in the event of a dispute between the EOS Committee and the Service, the Stortinget should have the decisive word in terms of the possible restriction of this right of access. It would have been contrary to important constitutional principles if the control function had been limited to the management that the EOS Committee has been set up to control. The control function of the EOS Committee is governed by law and instructions. There is no doubt that the Storting has set a framework for the work of the sample. Section 5 of the instruction is then also entitled «Constraints of transparency». The ‘limitation paragraph’ of the instruction states, as quoted by many in previous articles, that the EOS Committee shall not seek ‘a greater degree of transparency in classified information than is necessary for the purposes of verification’ and that the sample shall, as far as possible, ‘consider the protection of sources and the protection of data received from abroad’. I have also noticed that in an interview in the Evening Post on 3 June this year, the head of the Lund Commission, Ketil Lund, also says the following: ‘Some information may, of course, be of such a nature that their knowledge must be kept to an absolute minimum.’ The 1998 Annual Communication has updated the question of the procedure to be followed when disputes arise about the rights of access to the EOS Committee. Indeed, the current legislation does not provide a clear indication of the procedure to be followed when such a dispute arises. The case in question shows that there is a need for clearer guidance on dispute resolution. In other words, one needs procedures that come into force when doubts are raised as to whether the EOS Committee operates within the limits specified in Section 5 of the instruction. A very broad majority of the committee – all except the Progress Party – has stated in the vote what guidelines to follow if there is doubt or disagreement between the EOS Committee and the selection transparency service. It was such a clarification Minister of Defense Løwer asked in a letter to the Presidentship of the Stortinge on 21 April this year. The background was that doubts were raised about the request of the EOS Committee for access to all exchanged material with foreign services for a specific period, such as: two months, whether this request was compatible with the care specified in Section 5 of the instruction. The main conclusion in the Committee's opinion is, as I said, that any limitation of the rights of access by the EOS Committee must, of course, be attached to the Storting. In addition to thwarting this constitutionally important principle, the majority of the Committee draws up the following broad guidelines for resolving disputes: Where there is doubt or disagreement between the sample and the transparency service, the matter must be referred to the Minister of Defence.If no agreement is reached between the sample and the Council of State, the EOS Committee shall have the right to bring the matter before the Storting. In accordance with established principles, documents may not be required to be provided for the time necessary for the settlement of a right of access dispute. In other words, an open dispute has suspensive effect until agreement has been reached or the Stortinget has settled the matter. Experience so far shows that it has been necessary to clarify the procedures to be followed if a dispute arises on the basis of Section 5 of the instructions. The Parties share the view of the majority of the Committee that the guidelines they have developed may need to be regulated and assume that this issue is an important issue when evaluating the control system at the end of the current growing period. Until that happens, it must be assumed that the majority’s guidelines are based on further cooperation between the EOS Committee and the service. It should be clarified that such a reference to dispute resolution in the Grand Duchy imposes strict procedural requirements both on the institutional level and in relation to the trust in the work of the EOS Committee on classified information. One must be able to show a high level of confidence in a sample where the members of the sample are to be cleared for the highest level of security. If many disputes arise with time-consuming clearance rounds, it could over time undermine the trust of the EOS Committee in a way that does not serve the control function the sample is set to perform. In reality, there will be future practice and the composition of the EOS Committee which will determine whether parliamentary control of the secret services will work satisfactorily and continue to have broad confidence.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e705	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e708	It is interesting to hear what the Central Party's parliamentary leader believes in this matter because the Central Party is not represented in the Control and Constitutional Committee. But one can at least conclude with, based on what has been said so far in the debate, not least from Mr. Steenny, the central government is cracking like a stake in this case. My question to Jacobsen is really quite simple, and I want a shining clear answer to that. This is the emphasis made by the entire Committee on how to follow up control functions in practice. When the majority emphasises that the proposals of the Progress Party, which will in the future lay the basis for how to look at transparency practices and how to base them, are unnecessary because the Committee's comments underline the same points of view, my question to the representative Jacobsen is: Does he agree with the interpretation made by the Labour Party's main spokeswoman, Husøy, in this matter? Or does the representative Jakobsen agree with the interpretation that the freelancer Steensnæs, who is not a member of the committee, has raised this to a level that has created chaos and confusion over such an important matter as this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e716	I can't see that the representative Kleppe has any reason to claim that the centre parties are cracking in this matter. Now the Center Party and the Left are not on the committee, but we've been continuously briefed. Although we have not participated in the last negotiations on this compromise, in my speech I have expressed a great deal of understanding and support for the responsibilities taken by a majority of the committee in negotiating a broad compromise that most parties, except the Kleppes Party, can stand behind. With regard to the proposals of the Progress Party, both Carl I. Hagen and Vidar Kleppe are trying to appear as novices in terms of parliamentary practices and practices. Anyone who knows the position and attitudes of the Progress Party in this matter, and who has listened to the debate, also knows the background to this proposal and the reasoning that we have heard earlier today. What the Progress Party has laid down, and also other parties, is that the attitude of the central parties to the EOS case in the Storting should almost express some distrust of our current Minister of Defence. It's a statement that we've taken a great distance from throughout this process. We believe that there is no contradiction between the views and wishes to clarify that have come from the current Minister of Defence and the views of the central parties in this House.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e723	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e726	There is no doubt that strong forces did not like the clean-up that the Storting has done in the 1990s when it comes to controlling the secret services. The cleaning-up work was done in a political climate where it became clear to everyone that the secret services had taken care of, violated Norwegian law and violated the legal certainty of individuals. The abuses and errors that had been made were justified by cold wars and particularly affected people on the left side of Norwegian politics. Everyone will understand that I do not regard the Workers' Party as the left-hand side of Norwegian policy in this context, although also prominent workers' party members today were among those who were illegally watched. There is respect for the cleaning-up job that the Stortinget has done, that the Right in good law tradition did, and that the Jagland government contributed to. I'm not going to take the whole story here, even if it's tempting, because I think many people in the Storting are not aware of it, and I think it's part of the explanation that it's a political climate to take a step back. That's what the bulk of the population is doing today. It remains to be seen how big the backbiting is. But I think the debate that has gone ahead here is the best proof of how the political climate has changed. Now the Workers' Party does not feel pressured by SV on these questions, now you feel more pressured by the Advance Party. After Carl I. Hagen made a speech with strong accusations against some non-named representatives in the EOS Committee, I would like to ask him to put on the table what he thinks is critical behavior from some of the committee members. It is simply not possible to mention someone that the Storting has appointed, in such a way, without being concrete, putting on the table what is thought to be critical. For that criticism not only affects some individuals, but it hits an entire selection. How in the world can the Labour Party be so concerned about getting stuck in the Progress Party, which has such an attitude towards respectable members of the EOS Committee, as they themselves have appointed! I can read out members of this EOS committee: Rikard Olsvik, Kjersti Graver, Oddan Pettersen, Elsa Eriksen, Svein Grönnern, Agnes Reten. It is not possible for the Stortinget to accept that people who have been appointed are mentioned in such a way, and in addition, it is most unfortunate that you do not fully agree with Carl I. Hagen and can vote in favour of the proposal. I can't! I don't think there's any respect for that. But that's a sign of what kind of political climate it is in this matter now. The clearing job that Stortinget has done in these matters is unique in the world context. Only Switzerland and the Netherlands have similar parliamentary control over their secret services. And what we know about scandals from the secret services of other countries is not that there are security-cleared, publicly appointed, parliamentarians in a control commission that is delicious. It is simply that other countries are struggling with unscrupulous bad services, with a lot of crunchy between themselves like leaks. The problem should therefore have been reversed. The problem should be: how in the world can Norwegian E-service rely on MI6, when those who have people in their ranks name secret agents on the Internet and make everyone look up? That is the security problem that Norway has, that other countries' services are too poorly controlled and have too poor people, so it jeopardizes the security of the Kingdom and the lives of Norwegian soldiers. Thank you for having a parliamentary control that we can be proud of and that has done a real job! Our control committee has three tasks: 1. to clarify and prevent any wrongs being committed against any, including ensuring that no more intervention is used than is necessary under conditions;2. ensuring that activities do not unduly harm society,3. to ensure that the activities are carried out in the framework of legal, administrative or military directives and of unlawful law.’;» It's a big task the EOS committee has. And it's not that there's been any doubt about transparency. It is true that the EOS Committee should not need to see everything, but it is at the same time that the Storting has decided that the limitations that may be in terms of transparency are the selection itself doing, after assessing the types of different considerations contained in the instruction. There can be no doubt about it. It is even such that this is discussed in the Skauge selection setting. And the law explicitly states: ‘In order to carry out its duties, the sample may require the transparency and access of the administrative archives and registers, premises, installations and installations of any kind.’;» That's what the law says. The instruction in Section 5 states: ‘The sample shall not seek greater transparency in classified information than is necessary for the purposes of verification.’;» However, Section 6 of the instructions describes how the sample should be presented if there is a dispute between the services to be checked and the sample. And in the instruction section 6 there is no possibility for the service or the defence minister to withhold information from the sample. It is described how to record and, where appropriate, justify their protest, so what the Storting does here today is a change of what is contained in law and instruction. I'll come back to that a little bit. But it is not for nothing that there has been a part of the discussion in relation to the law and instructions, and that there has been a significant point to which the Skauge Committee has also joined. When the Judicial Committee dealt with this matter, it stated in a unanimous comitology, since it has become so popular here to review the Norwegian law: ‘The Committee agrees with the Skauge Committee that the decision on the scope of transparency must necessarily be taken by the Control Committee, but that these are such important issues as to formalise access to protest.’ Nor is it the case that this is a small fill point for Ketil Lund, who has experience – which the members of the committee and the rest of the Stortinget do not have – in controlling. It is simply so that no one in this Greatness, unless they are duly informed, knows what this archive is about, knows what kind of information is there, and knows where the border rise goes in the relationship between taking due account of the Kingdom’s security and taking into account its control purposes. Ketil Lund said to the Evening Post on June 3rd this year: ‘In principle, it is not possible to carry out investigations or checks in a meaningful manner if the person examined himself is to draw up a framework for the examination.’ There can only be one opinion about it! Therefore, this has been a significant point when the Storting has dealt with these matters. What should the E-service have done on the basis of law and instructions when this dispute arose? Well, they should have gone to the EOS committee! They should not have gone gossiping and sighing to the Minister of Defense and saying, Come help us! They should have gone to the EOS Committee and said, "Listen! We have two reasons to take into account: the Kingdom’s security and the need for effective control. The annual report shows that this has clearly been possible in relation to the surveillance police. In fact, in relation to the surveillance police, there must be some people there who realize that the Cold War is over, and that there is a point in trusting the services, working together to cope with both. In fact, it is also the case that the surveillance police themselves now come up with things – it says in the Annual Report, the side registers, for example. – which the sample at its own keel has not discovered, but where it cooperates. The same applies to the Defence Security Service. But the E-service, which believes it is harmful in itself to have a public debate on this, chooses a different procedure from what is actually in the law and instructions. SV believes that what the Storting is doing is a step backwards, because there is now a different procedure if there is inextricably a dispute between the Minister of Defence on the one hand and the EOS Committee on the other. There's still to be seen how big that backsliding is.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e778	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e781	Although I probably belong to the part of the left-hand side that is excluded from Kristin Halvorsen's view of this matter, I would like to say that I agree with a lot of what she said. But I do not agree that today's position represents a step back in relation to the control systems we have built up around the secret services after a laborious work in Stortinget. It is true that broad consensus – fortunately – was established through the Skauge Committee, through the Justice Committee in the Stortinget, through plenary decisions and through the establishment of the Lund Commission to address both unfortunate things in the past and to establish a secure control system for the future and for the future. But it is also the case that, in my opinion, there has always been a clear view that the most delicate aspects of the intelligence service's business should be protected. The issue has been how close it should be and where, at the end of the day, the final clarifications must be made when there is a dispute between the inspectors and the controller. The person who reads the documents here will find that the clarification is not fully completed until the setting we are currently reviewing. Now it's done, and in my opinion, after a system that's reassuring. It has been concluded in Stortinget today as a broad compromise, and this, in my opinion, is a deepening of – and not a step back – the open control system we have put in place.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e790	In fact, I disagree with Tom Thoresen about whether there was initially a lack of clarity about what would happen if there was a dispute between the service and the selection. It is clear that the sample should be entitled to total transparency. It is also clear that there are special issues about Norway’s safety, which should be particularly noted. But I understand the law and the instructions, as they apply today, that it is ultimately the sample that has to go a balance between its different tasks. If they're going to do a control job on behalf of the Stortinget, they have to know that they know enough to know what they're not going to see! So there's no doubt that the law and the instructions are ready per. today, and that the Storting changes the procedure at a point. Then there is simply a question of how this is going to work in the future. What it could look like in the first place was that the bulk of the population was willing to look through their fingers with a practice that could work so that the Storting had not even been told that there were changes happening here. This is simply an instruction – or what to call it – that has happened in secret. We believe that what is happening today is a step back. We don't know how big the backsliding is, we don't want to mention working to have effective control over the secret services. The check is intact with regard to the surveillance police and the defence security service, but I expect the E-service to be a fad of cooperative here, if it is such that they actually believe that public debate on these issues is damaging to their business.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e797	I deeply disagree when the representative Kristin Halvorsen says it takes a step back. As I see it, a significant step forward towards a much more secure control of the E-service. Kristin Halvorsen said that the sample must ‘make a balance’ and that the sample itself must know how far it will go. I assume that she then thinks about the restriction of the right of access to the sample, in Section 5 – Restrictions on transparency – in the instructions, where it says: ‘The sample shall not seek more extensive transparency — in classified information — than is necessary for the purposes of controls. It shall respect, as far as possible, the protection of sources and the protection of data received from the rest of the world.’.» Could I ask Mrs. Halvorsen: what does she mean to happen if the sample does not follow this restriction? What should happen if the sample does not follow its own instructions regarding limitations of transparency? So in the case of appointment by Stortinget, which would automatically lead to full confidence in a sample. Has the representative Halvorsen understood that the first sample was appointed based on a party political composition according to the size of the groups in Stortinget? Has she ever seen it so that when SV has the size that they can get a member of a sample, it automatically means that the Progress Party has confidence in him because we have voted for a single electoral scheme? Is it then suddenly understood that I can count on SV having confidence in a person appointed by the Progress Party on a corresponding quota? It has nothing to do with the question of trust. It's simply a way of assigning places. Does the representative, Halvorsen, agree that it does not mean any trust at all, and has she noticed that almost a total accumulation has changed the naming system in relation to this sample?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e811	The size has changed the naming system for the sample, with SV's support. And it's simply because we believe that if the secret services are to have confidence in the broad community of the people, with the story that's in this area, where the greatest abuses have been in relation to people from the left, it should be one related to SV or one that SV trusts, because it will matter whether most people have confidence in the control of services. It is in our opinion obvious with the story that the matter has. That is why we believe and have also written in the Committee's comments that we will look at the future practice, and the composition of the sample, to see if we can have sufficient confidence in the control that is actually being carried out. If you had just gone to mathematics in this game, Carl I. Hagen knew very well that you couldn't take that into account. I see it this way, and it's also clear in the committee's comments on the case that Carl I. Hagen refers to, that it's a point that the sample has broad confidence in the Norwegian people. If there is disagreement between the E service and the sample on what to see, it is clear from today’s law and instructions that the final balance lies with the sample. You can't believe that you have a satisfactory check with someone if those to check are the ones who have the last word in such a case. But I see well that there may be disagreement in these questions, it's obvious. But then the E-service and the sample are going to try to go through what kind of boundaries it should be, because the sample has to know that they can do the control purposes in relation to what is actually going to be done, and know enough to know what they don't need to see. It is a great responsibility to go well for the control of the secret services.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e818	With the fact that the party is the most party for people, I deeply disagree with Kristin Halvorsen when she tries to make it so that if people are to have the most trust in the secret services and in the control system, it's SV who should veto the composition. So Kristin Halvorsen said in his post that there was no clarification, or any criticism directed at the majority's selection, but only from the Progress Party. I ask her to look at page 9 in the setting, where it says in the letter from the Council of State Løwer: ‘ I find the type of inspection that this is about very unfortunate compared to the partners abroad. In practice, such a control activity would go beyond the intentions of the laws and regulations referred to in paragraph 1. 2.’» In another letter from the Minister of Defence on the same page, it says: ‘The material concerned does not include conditions that are part of the control purposes of the EOS Committee.’;» And one majority says – in addition to saying the same thing: «... agree with the understanding of the three Ministers for Defence referred to above. Transparency of the EOS Committees in the E service as demonstrated by the attached correspondence from them in this case.» In two places, the Minister of Defence has clearly stated that the sample has gone beyond its mandate and requested information that is not consistent with the intentions of the law. When a majority, consisting of the Right Party, the Labour Party and the Government Parties, then agree with these two statements of the Council of State, it obviously implies criticism of the EOS Committee, which has thereby failed to comply with its prudence in relation to the instructions on transparency restrictions. Does that mean that Kristin Halvorsen agrees that we are not alone in criticizing the selection?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e840	In fact, in the comments in the setting, the Progress Party is only concerned with the tone in relation to the selection and the selection procedure. I was a little surprised by a couple of posts in this room today, but it is clear that what will now be the basis for the further work is what is written down in the comments, and that both the E-service, the selection and the Minister of Defence will deal with. I think the role of Carl I. Hagen and the Progress Party in this matter is really quite predictable. The party of progress has never liked this! From the very first day, the party of progress has tried to limit what it seemed counterproductive to be involved in a completely different political climate. This is not something that the left-hand side makes up! It's just that you had secret services in Norway that broke the law, and Carl I. Hagen really thinks it would have been okay if it was still like that. That's to the extent that it's a good point of view. It is not a particularly respectable position if you are a modern democrat and engaged in the rule of law, but it is, as I said, in so far as it is clear – there is clear speech and firm fish on it. But don't give me any clues about the Kingdom's security, as the Progress Party has dealt with this matter, for those who are concerned with popping up and undermining the control system that Stortinget has laid down are the Progress Party. The people who are busy with this and in the interview almost in Russian humor form present something that others have written in comments, as suggestions just to bother them a little bit extra, so that there are a little extra discussions around it, it's Carl I. Hagen and the Progress Party. I am very little impressed with the handling of the ‘regard to the Kingdom’s security’ by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e851	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e855	The issue actually addressed by Stortinget today in the context of the setting up of the EOS Committee in 1998 concerns the right of access to the EOS Committee. This is a difficult issue, which has been worked on in depth, both by the Minister of Defence and – not least – here in the United Kingdom. I note that it was so difficult that the committee needed to involve the parliamentary leaders in the work, and after hearing the statements from Svein Ludvigsen and Inger Lise Husøy, respectively, today, I have a great deal of understanding that this was necessary. In the light of the Committee's work, including its assistance, a broad compromise has been reached, which in itself is a point of such a kind as this. It is understandable that the matter has been difficult; it is important to take into account the defence and the security of the state. This applies in particular to information from foreign partners and from sources that are very concerned that identity should be strictly secret. In fact, in relation to the sources, we are in the situation that individuals will probably perceive their security as better safeguarded the fewer who will know about their identity, and dissemination of knowledge will thus perhaps reduce their security. On the other hand, such a service as this would necessarily have to be closed to the outside world and thus a strong need for control. The work of the Lund Commission showed this particularly in relation to another secret service, namely the police surveillance service, that there was a major problem of closedness and a great need for control and transparency. It is essential in a democratic society to be able to rely on all aspects of public activity, including the secret services. And this implies that these services must be under the control of the Storting. The control body is the body of the Grand Duchy, and if in this room there is a distrust of the composition of the sample and a distrust of its work, it is in fact a problem for the Grand Duchy, and not for the sample, because it is the Grand Duchy that has chosen the body. There have been statements in the debate we have today, which may give a certain sense that not everyone has understood this. Like Einar Steensnæs, I would like to stress that the starting point is the access of the sample to information, and that is what is the central starting point for the sample's work. This is also the very central issue in law and in instructions and in the committee comments that are in the position, and it is also central, as I understand it, for the current Minister of Defence. At the same time, in some cases confidentiality may be so much needed that the sample should not request all information. And in addition to the rules of law and instructions on transparency, there are also rules on how the sample should limit its requests for transparency. You can think of different solutions to the dilemma you're facing. The left is behind the compromise reached by the majority of the committees for dispute resolution. And it is absolutely essential for this conclusion that it is the Stortinget, and not the E-service, or, for that matter, the Minister of Defence, who should have the decisive word – it should be in Stortinget. This consensus is also valid in the future, but with the important clarification that the operation of the EOS Committee will be evaluated in less than a very long time, and that it may be appropriate to look for solutions other than those currently selected in this evaluation. Then there is a part trying to give the impression that the government parties do not trust the Council of State and the Council of State. First, let me say that it was very unfortunate that the 1997 letter of the former Kosmo State Council was not made known to the EOS Committee. It is very fortunate, however, that Councillor Løwer put the problem we are facing before the Stortinge, and she should have a great deal of respect for it. For the Left, we agree with the dilemmas described by the Council of State in its letters. We agree that an unlimited transparency here will be a problem that you have to take seriously and seriously, and find a solution to. The government has asked the Storting to find this solution, and the Left is behind the solution that the Storing here has found.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e881	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e884	It's always just as interesting to hear Mr. Hove's statement on the issues we're dealing with, and especially this one. And when the representative Hove also interpreted Steensnæs in the direction that he did, it is clear that there is a question that one must ask the left in this matter. The left is not represented in the committee either, but they have, because I understand, been involved in the agreed compromise, which, in the view of the Progress Party, does not help to clarify the important questions of principle that we as the Trade Committee and the Storting should take into account in terms of the future. For it was only to be lacking that the Left Party does not agree with its own Council of State as regards the past and the handling of these important issues of principle which the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has been presented with regard to the clarification requested by both the Council of State and the EOS Committee. Today, in this Chamber, we experience that everyone has different interpretations of the agreed majority comment on the proposals of the Progress Party. My question to the Left is: Does the Left agree with the Progress Party and in the majority comments that it is important for the future that the EOS Committee, the E-Service and the Government base the decision taken by the majority in this matter today, namely that, when there is disagreement on the interpretation of these important issues, the Minister of Defence has an important job to do in this area, after the disagreement that has arisen has been brought before the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e891	I will initially be allowed to thank you for the honor that I actually realized that the representative Kleppe expressed to the undersigned, a reward I naturally appreciate. I am also told that I think the representative Kleppes reply to the undersigned is the most sober and calm line from the Progress Party in today's debate. It's got to be the characteristics. As for the content and the realities of this, what was said in my speech is that the Left is behind the compromise expressed by the majority comments. As for the comments from the Progress Party, the situation is that there are elements in these that we can agree with, and then there may be elements that you don't want to join like this. And we can only see from the outside that the Progress Party has chosen not to participate in the majority comments and the compromise they express, but just to make its own comments. What had to be the consensus and disagreement between the Progress Party and the Committee majority, it would be a little difficult for an outsider to get full clarity. So that's why I prefer to pick that formula that I stick to the comments of the majority committee, and I'm standing on these. On the issue of the future, I agree that the solution that has now been agreed on for issues of dispute will also apply in the future. But then I took the reservation that when the scheme is being evaluated, it might be that you can go into other solutions. But it will apply until then. Finally, I will be allowed to state that there are elements in this debate today that are perceived as unfortunate. I hope that, in the future, you will find yourself in a situation where the EOS Committee and the E-service will be able to find a cooperation solution to resolve disputes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e904	I find it necessary to read up from the original comments of the Christian People's Party to show that I am not the one who has been upresis. This is dated 3 June and concerns the Kingdom’s security. It says: ‘These members take the view that this cannot be construed as a refusal of transparency in documents by reference to such facts...’ I would also like to read the letter of 21 April 1999 from the Council of State, Løwer, represented on page 13 of the vote, where she says the following: ‘Should the identity of sources be made known beyond an extremely limited range, there is therefore a real danger that access to information will stop and, in some cases, the security of sources will be threatened.’ Does the representative of Howe agree with that?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e919	It is always a bit difficult to take precise details when you are presented for a quote – a quote that I have a strong experience of not being absolutely complete. But let me say that what is the conclusion of what is stated in the majority comments is that the e-service cannot deny the selection transparency, but there may be some limitations in transparency. Then we've been very clear that the final decision on that question is for the Storting to decide on, if the sample considers it so important with transparency that they bring this up as a dispute. It is absolutely essential that the final word is in Stortinget, not in the E-service. Then to the second problem. I believe that, as a major decision, we should take in-depth consideration of the problem that the Council of State Løwer, as well as the two former Councils of State in the Ministry of Defence, explain that an unlimited transparency of all the details of the entire sample can create problems in relation to foreign services and partners and possibly to sources. There is a problem that has to be dealt with to the greatest extent, and that is what the Storing is doing through the treatment that is now in use in this case. One gives feedback to the Council of State about a solution to this which takes care of what is requested, as far as I have understood the Council of State, and that is exactly what the Left has said they are behind.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e926	I can at least conclude that the representative from the Left, Mr President. Howe, is far more sober in this debate than the representative Steensnæs is. And that's a pleasure, so far. At least as part of the trinity of the government parties, the left considers that these important issues raised both from the sample and from the Council of State to the Committee should be clarified and that they should apply to the future. In the previous line, the representative Hove said that he agreed on parts of the proposal for the Progress Party. And then my question is: what in the proposal of the Progress Party is the representative of Howe disagreed with? When we look at the specific issues that have been raised, we need to focus on the future and establish a proper regime in this area until, during the final period here at Stortinget, we get an evaluation of the whole system.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e935	In essence, I think that in the previous reply to the representative Kleppe I went far enough to go into the characteristics, and at least I do not want to go into them when it comes to people other than myself and the one who comes with the line. But more generally, I would like to say that I am very pleased with the work that Einar Steensnæs has done in this matter, at least on the basis of what I know in part, although we have not been in all stages of the proceedings. With regard to the proposal and the comments, I choose to repeat what I have said, namely that we have joined the majority comments. We've found that the Progress Party has chosen not to do so, and that this is not the way to reach consensus in the Committee. I feel that for my part there will be no point in saying whether there are any elements you could agree with, and give a closer analysis of which it would have to be exactly. As far as the proposal is concerned, therefore, I note that the majority of the committee, all except the Advancement Party, says that they will choose not to vote for it. I just notice that it also has the Left's intention not to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e946	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e949	It is now six years since the Stortinget decided to establish a parliamentary control system for the military intelligence, security and police surveillance services. Both the work of the Lund Commission and the detection of the so-called Furre case by the EOS Committee have shown that this was a reasonable choice, which has led the Storting as the top controlling body to have a broad understanding of these issues. The EOS Committee has carried out inspections and meetings with different actors in the services within the framework of which the sample is set to keep an overview. This shows that the Storting's intention of the sample, namely to exercise control, is also carried out in practice in a satisfactory manner. It is important now to look at the need for better expertise in telecommunications and data communications, as the sample itself asks for in the annual report. Furthermore, the annual report shows that the selection of a very wide range of cases carries out extensive transparency work on behalf of the contracting entity, Stortinget. Both the random checks on the clearance refusals and the related side registers in the POT show the need for a control committee that can handle all kinds of cases in the secret services at any time. At the same time, it is positive to record that the services themselves — and this is quite important — see the work of the sample as important and necessary, and that the services themselves take the initiative to identify different situations. We do not exclude that the activities for which the sample is responsible will also be under continuous debate, and that in itself is positive. It is important that we combine the legal security requirements of the Norwegian individual and, overall, the security of the Kingdom. This must also be reflected in the activities of the EOS Committee in the exercise of its control functions. The existing approach shows that there is a broad majority in most areas of the evaluation of the sample’s activities. With the experience of previous processes within this very sensitive part of the policy area, I actually think that today we have greater consensus on the main lines than we have ever had before, and I also say that with the experience I have through the work of the Lund Commission in the previous period. With regard to the issue of transparency, I would like to stress that the main point now must be to achieve a balanced limit between what is necessary for the selection to be made transparent, and what, for very special security policy reasons for our country in relation to other countries, should remain calm. As stated in the debate, an evaluation of the operation of the EOS Committee shall be carried out during the current period. Whether there is a need for concrete changes in legislation or regulations will only show the time. Much has been positive across the entire spectrum of the secret services in Norway, both through the new laws we have received, and not least through extensive reorganisation work within the secret services, especially the police surveillance service, which is a commendable work also in the light of the position of the Danielsen Committee. It is important to stress that the Stortinget and various governments, both past and present, have contributed constructively to building a broad trust in the Norwegian people in the work for which the Intelligence Service, the Security Service and the Surveillance Service are responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e970	The operation decided to set up its own — and I repeat: its own — control committee for the military intelligence and security services as well as for the police surveillance service, according to the needs revealed by previous investigations into these services. In other words, the Storting would be dealing with its own control through its own selection. Now the annual report for our EOS committee is available for treatment. In this context, there is a basis for giving great consideration to the extensive and solid work done by the sample. As shown by the Committee's overall comments, it has been taken for information that the sample has had difficulties for a long period of time due to the fact that sample members have been assigned to other management leading tasks and for that reason have been withdrawn from the sample. This applies, inter alia, to: Per N. Hagen and Aud-Inger Aure. The Committee stresses the need to ensure the safety of individuals and organisations. The annual report indicates that there is still a need for an independent control committee, to which the Committee subscribes, and that the composition of the sample must create confidence in the whole population. It is positive to note that, at the initiative of the monitoring manager, the sample has been briefed on the existence of several computer-based internal work registers in the OVS. In this context, there is reason to commend the Monitoring Manager for his own initiative in informing of such records. Furthermore, we find that a new registration circular for POT is being prepared. So far there is an overall committee related to the annual report of the EOS Committee for 1998. However, different views have come to light on the right of access by the EOS Committee, including: from the letter of the sample to the Presidency of the Grand Duchy of 12 May. in order to clarify various issues related to letters from the Minister of Defence to the Head of Defence of 16 April 1997. This concerns the right of access of the sample to the sections 5 and 6 of the instructions. For the Christian People's Party, it is of great importance that there is broad support for the work of the sample and the possibility of transparency, which will be known through the setting. In this context, I also refer to what is affected in connection with Section 5, Restrictions on transparency, where, among other things. is: ‘The sample shall not seek greater transparency in classified information than is necessary for the purposes of controls. It shall respect, as far as possible, the protection of sources and the protection of data received from the rest of the world. The information received shall not be communicated to other authorised personnel or other public bodies which are unknown to them without the need to do so, are necessary for the purposes of control or are subject to the rules of procedure laid down in Section 9. In case of doubt, the data submitter should be requested.’;» The Christian People's Party and the majority believe that it will be possible to address the need for control combined with the need to protect sensitive information on the basis of the rules mentioned here. Furthermore, if there is any doubt or disagreement between the sample and the service on the right of access of the sample in this demarcated area, the question must be referred to the Minister of Defence. And if there is still disagreement in questions, the sample must have the right to bring the questions in for the Storting. The majority would also like to point out that, in such cases, the Supervisory Committee and the Constitutional Committee should be informed that there is a dispute between the Board and the Ministry and assumes that further work in the sample is carried out on the basis of this understanding. At this point, these issues may need to be regulated, as may be the case in the evaluation of the work of the Audit Board at the end of the current period. During the Committee's work, it has been essential for the Christian People's Party to ensure the transparency of the EOS Committee in such a way that all relevant information is made available to the sample. We are pleased with the majority's understanding of this issue in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1002	I am not a member of the control committee, so I feel free to express my satisfaction with the position of the control committee. When one of the degrees has the power to write together, which today's setting carries the commandments, it should initially limit the possibilities of the polemics, but it's obviously only partly so. When such a dispute as it has been leads to almost common wording, it suggests that the committee has done a good job. Of course, the remarks bear the impression of what sometimes appears in committee positions, a certain parliamentary poloness, where majority and minority walk in and out, but I don't think there is any coverage to say that there are ambiguities after today's vote. On the contrary, I feel that clarity is being brought. There are two fundamental considerations to be taken into account. There is the demand of the Storting for transparency and control through the broad history of the case, which many have had to deal with, and that is the consideration, in particular, of the integrity of the military intelligence service, which is also reflected in Storting's own legislation. Of course, there is no fundamental conflict here. But potential conflict areas are intertwined, for example. through the provision entered on page 7 of the setting. Let me also say in parentheses, although it doesn't have anything to do with the matter: it's obviously not that what the EOS committee knows, everyone knows. The EOS committee also has its tasks in accordance with Storting's intentions, and is there, of course, with the confidence that the Storting has given them. So if there's a conflict between the two main considerations I've shown, today's setting gives a template for how to solve it. And I think that in any case is wise. So the Storting has given two assignments: one to the Storting's own control committee, and the other to the secret services through the legislation. And then, of course, it's natural that it's the Storting that ultimately has the decisive word on how to understand the rules, whether conflict occurs. Now it's not given that the Storting will handle it anything different than the defence ministers of various political rejections are going to do. I would like to make sure that the defence ministers of the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party belong to a somewhat average gait on this issue, which one will find in the Stortinget. I therefore do not believe that the conflicts Kristin Halvorsen, among others. expressing a certain fear, will prove to be particularly problematic in practice. I believe, on the contrary, that most people want to have a view of these questions which means that one does not compromise the intelligence service's ability to function in accordance with their intentions. Of course, it is a general problem with regard to these points that one should try to limit the circle of people who have access to this area. But that applies in general. After all, it is not clearly stated that the Stortinget as a collective – if it were to be the solution – is better suited than the Supervisory Board of the Stortingen, not because there is something wrong with 165 large-scale representatives, but because the amount that has transparency then becomes much larger. These elements, of course, defend their place in a discussion of the procedure for this in the future. And I'm referring to what's in the setting about the possibility of getting back to dealing with these questions later, so that one can secure the intentions that Stortinget has laid down in these important questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1019	As the responsible State Council for two of the services under the control of the EOS Committee, I welcome the broad consensus within the Committee on the issues raised by the control activities of the sample. In my view, this demonstrates the proper functioning of the system, while maintaining the need for an independent control body to ensure that the legal security of organisations and individuals is ensured by the services. I would also like to stress that, in the time it has been in operation, the EOS Committee has not revealed critical aspects of the services. A broad majority of the Storting supports my views and those of my predecessors on the protection of particularly sensitive information and on the protection of sources and the protection of data received from abroad. The solution to issues where there is disagreement about transparency is satisfactory on this basis. The big deal has with the practice it now adds, the last word. A majority of the Committee underlines the need to regulate these issues at a later stage. I agree with this, and look forward to an evaluation of the control system. In order to fulfil its tasks, the E service is dependent on effective source protection and the ability to cooperate closely with collaborative services. It is essential for the country to provide information from these fields with extremely limited distribution. International development means that the need for reliable intelligence has not been reduced after the end of the Cold War. Norwegian participation in international operations is an example of the continuing need for broad access to information from geographical areas where our E-service has traditionally not concentrated. This places great demands on the portability of the service and the ability to maintain and deepen cooperation with the services of other countries. My basic position, which also concerns the Intelligence Service, is to show the greatest possible transparency in all contexts. The service should go beyond this by showing transparency in areas where it is possible to inform the public about the tasks and activities of the service, and I will take the initiative to do so. This will be essential for the service to meet the necessary understanding and trust. However, what needs to be protected for reasons of source protection and cooperation with foreign services needs to be protected that also satisfies the legitimate protection requirements of the sources and cooperative services. It is a prerequisite for the e-service to be able to perform the tasks assigned to it. Both the intelligence service and the preventive security service have recently been regulated. The Act on the Intelligence Service has entered into force, while the Code on Preventive Security will only enter into force once the regulations of the law have been drawn up and adopted. I have noticed that the Government is requested to take the necessary measures, so that the Security Act can formally enter into force as soon as possible. On this occasion, I can assure you that this work has been started for the longest time, and there is a lot of resources to design regulations for the law. I want to do what is possible to get ahead of work. At the same time, it must be taken into account that this is a very comprehensive work covering many complex areas and different sectors of society. A number of existing instructions will need to be deleted, and more and more comprehensive new regulations will have to be laid down. A broad and thorough consultation round must be carried out in order to allow all concerned time and opportunity to comment. I therefore see it as unrealistic that the law will be able to come into force during the current year. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that parts of the Security Act have already been implemented through a circular from the Ministry of Defence. This concerns legal certainty guarantees in the field of human security, which I have been able to implement before the entry into force of the Act because the provisions only give the person to be cleared with security better rights in relation to the applicable instructions. The law's requirement that, in the event of negative decisions, unsolicited information is to be provided to the person concerned on the decision and on the right to state reasons and to appeal is already in force. Like the committee, I am also of the opinion that it is important that someone who has been denied clearance is made aware of the opportunity to try the clearing issue again after a certain period of time. Finally, I would like to stress that both the activities of the Intelligence Service and the Security Service are of great importance for the security of the State and vital national interests. An appropriate control system will be good for the services directly, as well as indirectly in view of the need for the acceptance and trust of the services of the population. It is my expectation that the control system over time will help to anchor the confidence and understanding of the service in the population as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1038	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1041	I have to draw attention to the fact that it is not primarily from the Workers' Party's side that there is a need for some line change here. I would like to remind you of the content of the letter of former Secretary of Defense Kosmos that the case was to be decided by the Chief of Defence – so he refers to the Chief of Defence. It is now a well-known matter that the Council of State would not advise Stortinget in this matter of defence. That's why I want to read up from her letter to the Presidency, where it says: ‘The service has therefore entered into bilateral agreements with the relevant partners on the handling of this special material, which provides a Norwegian guarantee that only an extremely limited distribution will be provided, in practice to a few members of the E-service.’» My questions to the Council of State are: Does the Council of State stand by this? Does she believe, as has been said earlier in the debate, that unlimited transparency will not have any consequences for security policy? I also want to ask the following very clear questions: Does the Council of State think that unlimited transparency for the sample is consistent with her own letter? And what defence policy council has the Council of State given to its own centermates?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1055	With regard to the last question, from what was available about the ambiguity related to the letter from Kosmos, I have asked the Stortinges to clarify how to deal with such disagreements in a procedural manner. I have not given any specific advice to the parliamentarians from the government fraction in the Grand Duchy. They've operated on their assumptions. It is the Stortinget that makes the laws, and it is the Stortinget that interprets them. I would just like to say that these issues that are now being discussed may seem to be misunderstood, as it could be seen that there are, in fact, concrete disagreements on the basis of which this problem is being discussed. The letter of Kosmos refers to the E-service’s request for action in the event of a possible conflict. There are really no conflicts here, except for the enquiry I received, which I also sent to the Stortinget regarding the general review in time, and where the reason for finding a clarification was already sent to Stortinget. I believe that it is still important that there is a limited number of people who know this information. Of course, that number should not necessarily be related to what is today, but it should be limited. And if the Storting in a future arrangement wants to find a different form than what they add up to today, I don't see it as a problem, if there's still a limited number that have insight into this sensitive information.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1077	I have a simple and concrete question to the Council of State, which she has previously answered in the Committee. For the sake of order, I would like to repeat the question so that the Council of State can also give its answer in Stortinget. In the evening post today, it says, among other things: on this matter and the time in the future, the following: ‘The solution has become that the matter shall be referred to the Minister of Defence if there is disagreement between the EOS Committee and the E-Manager on what information can be provided.’;» Will the Council of State confirm that if such disagreement is submitted to the Minister of Defence, will the Minister of Defence refer the matter to the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1089	I'm going to answer Hagen's questions, but I actually want to start at the other end. I want to start with what I see is the attitude now – to find procedures and forms of cooperation between the EOS Committee and the E-service so that there are no conflicts. I want to make sure that my part of the system, the intelligence service, works so that the EOS committee can also be given knowledge by arranging what it is they can ask for from information, so that this theoretical question that we are talking about in many ways today is not so many concrete examples. I'd like to start at that end. So I'd say, as I said in the Storting Control Committee, that if in the future there's a point of disagreement between the EOS Committee and the E-service, and it's reported to me that it's a matter of disagreement, if it's not possible to find a solution, I'd ask the EOS Committee to send this information to its sponsor, which is the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1098	The Council of State said in its statement that she would like to try to publish more of the intelligence service’s activities and in a way demystify the E service. We in the Group of the European People's Party agree with that. It must be possible to tell what the service is going to do, and do so in such a way as to bring out as much knowledge as possible about it, which can create understanding. In my opinion, it will also help to make it easier to understand where it is necessary to put down some fences and borders. In its statement, the Council of State mentioned the points that have been mentioned and that are particularly sensitive, i.e. the relationship with the cooperative services of other countries and the consideration of those involved in this. As I understood the council, that was what was supposed to be the core of what was to be protected. I then want to ask the Council of State a question related to Inner. O. No 19 for 1997-98, where an overall committee also points to other areas. I'll very briefly quote some of the things that say there: ‘The Committee will further point out that there will be a condition for maintaining a national capacity to support its own intelligence needs that the capacity, technological level and vulnerability of the service are not revealed.’ In addition to a number of other unanimous comitology comments, there are also areas that will be of great importance for the safety and intelligence of the nation, that they are protected. My question is: will the Council of State also take into account in its assessment and decision the considerations that a joint committee points to in theint. O. No 19 for 1997-98?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1114	Source protection is one point. I also mentioned in my speech that we are actually facing some quite new challenges in terms of participation in international operations, where there is also intelligence related to the security of the individual and of the country, who will face new demands and who will make demands on the ability to convert the E service. There may be issues that it is not precisely time to get concrete today, which will be part of this new sensitive security area. But I expect that there is still a possibility that it could be between the EOS Committee and the E service if you get away with questions of this nature. There is no need for the EOS Committee to be fully aware of the limitations but to consider the issues to be addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1119	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1123	At my best discretion, Stortinget has built up good control of the secret services. The background to the system we have today was investigated by the so-called Skauge Committee, and, as far as I know, the Storting has fully followed the Skauge Committee in its decisions. As far as I also have in memory, it means that the assessments and the premises on which the Skauge Committee was founded have been largely shared. Therefore, I would like to quote a small section, not from the law, not from the instructions, but from the notes of the Skauge Committee to Section 5 of the instruction, and it does not refer to the processing of information, but to the possibility for the sample to obtain information: ‘It shall not obtain access to more than it needs to know from the purpose of the control. For example: The S-service means that no transparency should be sought in the work on connection protection or purely physical security. For the E service, transparency shall not be sought beyond what is necessary to ensure that any person’s rights are not infringed. Source protection considerations and the protection of data from abroad are particularly important and are therefore highlighted. However, these considerations cannot have absolute impact either. A weighing-up shall be carried out.’;» I read it so that the sample will not normally seek insight into what is mentioned here as being particularly protective, for example. data from the rest of the world and source protection. But that it is the valve that the sample can also do where there is a suspicion that the considerations set aside by the control institute are being infringed. What we see now is an attempt – in my opinion, a legitimate and good attempt – to clean up a little bit in that grey zone. For my part, I would like to make it quite clear that such a clean-up has nothing to do with the distrust of the EOS Committee. For my part, I trust it. Nor does it have any distrust of the E-service, nor of the parliamentary control and responsibility of the Minister of Defence with regard to the Stortinget at all times. But whether this trust exists, we have to realize that there can be a small grey zone, which hopefully is as small as possible. It is then stated in the comments of the Skauge Committee on the instructions: ‘A balance must be made’. It is not stated that the sample has to be weighed. It can be a reasonable – perhaps the most reasonable – interpretation. Nor does it state that the E-service has to make a balance, nor does it say that the Ministry of Defence has to make a balance. The balance is that the sample should show care by looking for information. But everyone knows that that care can be difficult to show if you don't know what you're looking for. I'm not reading this comment as a blank agent to go in there. Maybe you could say it so that the defense operates with a "need-to-know" principle. It should also be done to the greatest extent by the EOS Committee. But the defense itself, and not least the defense's intelligence, should perhaps also operate with a 'need two hide' principle. I believe that there is now a basis for building trust so that these two principles do not conflict with each other. But even though everyone has their integrity in mind – the E-service, the EOS Committee and the Ministry of Defence – we have to realize that there can be a grey zone where it is not obvious who will make the decision. I think that the system that the Committee is now proposing, that the decision must ultimately be taken by the Storting itself, is the only one true. That's why I said in a line to Kristin Halvorsen instead that I don't see this as a step back. I see it as a complement to the line we've been following all along.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1141	The speakers who have the floor hereafter have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1144	I note that in the case of the police surveillance service, the number of complaints to the sample has been reduced, and that none of the substantive issues involving the police surveillance service has given rise to criticism on the part of the sample. I also agree with the sample that the migration actions undertaken in the monitoring service have been followed up, that implementation is taking place relatively quickly, and that there is a high level of awareness in the service on the legal security aspects of the activities carried out. I have noticed the comments related to the Lamark case, where you accept the procedure that was used by POT, but that both the committee and the committee stress that it may make sense that the sample also receives a certain type of general information in such cases, so that, to put it that way, you should not go into particularly sensitive areas. I am also familiar with the fact that the sample of the monitoring manager’s initiative was briefed on the fact that several computer-based internal side registers were established at departments in the Monitoring Centre. These records did not appear to have been known by the Lund Commission. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with the management of the Monitoring Centre, has put in place a considerable amount of work in the preparation of a new circular on registration and archiving in the police surveillance service. The circular, completed in a short time, regulates inter alia: the archives and records which may be created by the service, the purpose of the registers and archives and the restrictions on data registration. At the same time, procedures are set up to ensure the quality assurance of information obtained and to ensure the highest possible degree of traceability of the facilities and records of the monitoring service. In connection with the inspections of the sample, inter alia: The Defence Command/Security Staff – FO/S – has been shown to be deficient in compliance by the police with the obligation to report under §5-7 of the Public Prosecutor’s Instructions. This obligation to notify is of importance in the context of clearing and the Ministry found that reporting is not always carried out in accordance with the provisions of the contract instruction. The case was brought up with the national lawyer, who in letters to the State Attorney's Office has reinforced the reporting obligation and requested that state lawyers check that police have established procedures to ensure compliance. So let me say, although it's not a topic in this case today, that we're served to have a surveillance service in the police that's modern, competent, efficient and good. I want to work to get such a situation in the follow-up to the Danielsen Committee, and would like to add dryly, as one of those who grew up during the Cold War and have experienced the different sides of it, to say so, that we are served to have a surveillance service in the police we can rely on – and I do – and that can also relate to a complex reality, where perhaps some of us can occasionally become nostalgic and lengthy back to certain sides of the Cold War. We then lived in a period of a rough climate, with a tough confrontation, but with a kind of orderly overview that is no longer the situation. We're facing a complex and complex picture, and I personally feel special concern about people on a journey out there in the world who, on a freelance basis, would turn thoughts into evil deeds, to say it like that. In that situation, we are served with the confidence of the police surveillance service, and I will work to ensure that the service can be forward-looking and good. I would like to express that view to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1161	The control committee of today and the control committee that was in the previous magnification period are two quite different control committees, not least in management contexts. It now bears many characteristics of the debate and development. It may always be interesting to indulge in the error of others – it is often done by others at the expense of the Advance Party. I want to refer to the Haugesund Newspaper of 12 June 1999, an article written by Ragnar Larsen. I just quote the title: ‘Right lost your head and shot yourself in the foot’ – an interesting and difficult sport! What is interesting to record is that the rapporteur has obviously both found his head again and is moving on a reasonably safe footing. That being said, it is important to see part of the evolution in the light of what happened in a heated time, in contrast to what I get to call a more thoughtful time, where the decision of the Storting is to be put into practice. Now that there has been a conflict between the EOS Committee and the Defence Intelligence Service, it is obvious that, despite the limitations of their legislation, the EOS Committee has demonstratively knocked on doors that they should understand should remain closed, doors to very small rooms. But that's what the EOS committee has found to do, and then it's also necessary to clarify how this is to be understood. As you can see, this debate has been useful. What becomes problematic is to interpret the Christian People's Party's handling of this, because it's obvious that here there's something left from what I get to call the time of the old regimes. When the EOS range obviously chooses to run on red light – because it has been done by the EOS range – without access to the use of sirens, traffic needs to be increased. So maybe we can thank the EOS committee for obviously wanting to go this way despite all the warnings, so that we can get a clarification going. On the other hand, unfortunately, I do not feel the necessary trust in what was the motivation for this, when there were obviously clear leads in the sample's own legislation. So in the meantime, the defence committee, to which I referred earlier, and the Storting through Innst, have. O. No 19 for 1997-98 sets out clearly which restrictions should apply. It's a law that's come at a time when things had calmed down a little bit more. I hope that what is on page 7 of today's vote on the agreement on the understanding of the three Ministers for Defence on the transparency of the EOS Committee means that you can confirm that there is the law and the opportunity to put a bomb down, and that there is a clear message to the EOS Committee to stop in time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1172	The fact that the debate has largely concerned the right of access of the EOS Committee to the archives of the Intelligence Service is natural, given that it is precisely this issue that has caused headaches and lacks a round both in the Committee and at parliamentary level. I am pleased with the clarification we have received, and that a broad majority has been able to agree on a main comment on this point. Although it is a compromise from a somewhat different point of view, the Christian People's Party believes that it is to live with all parties, both for greatness, for the EOS Committee and for the E Service. One can, of course, discuss and disagree on who has had the most impact on his or her vision, or who has come to his or her senses. But contrary to law and justice, reason cannot be said to be absolute. In terms of transparency, it is interesting to note the experience from the Netherlands and Switzerland. The EOS Committee visited the control authorities in these countries during the harvest in order to gain knowledge of how the control tasks are carried out, the priorities carried out, the general issues faced by control bodies and how they are handled. The Netherlands and Switzerland are countries that also have parliamentary control of their secret services, and where services were concerned that control should reduce their trust and access to information by cooperating services. However, the perception and experience is that serious and long-term work on the control tasks helps to create confidence in the control bodies of the services. In this way, concerns about taushement and compromising classified information are reduced. In Switzerland, there has also been a meeting with the head of the service in order to set up appropriate procedures and working methods in connection with the establishment of controls on the intelligence service. I think it might be good to mention these experiences in this debate. I also want to bring forward another element in the annual report of the EOS Committee, namely that the number of complaints for the sample is more than halved compared to 1997. This is positive and may mean that the control system has contributed to the improvement of the procedures of the bodies under the control of the sample. In addition, it is also positive that the monitoring manager himself took the initiative to inform the sample that there were several computer-based internal work registers established by departments in the Monitoring Centre.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1185	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 3945]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1199	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 20 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Working Party 50 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 20 minutes each, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes each, the Left and Twist Party elected 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose to allow for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers for each group of parties and five lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1210	We are on our way into the final stage in the second and hopefully the last act of Storting's setup of the major opera cause, «Building a new national opera house». Quite exactly a year ago, we debated the entire opera act here in the Chamber. In the setting that existed at the time, the various aspects of this complex construction project were affected. The treatment revealed that there was a clear majority in Stortinget to build a new opera house. However, disagreement on the location of the new opera prevented concrete decisions on such construction. With this in mind, at the end of March, the Minister of Culture promoted a new proposition based on a very thorough investigation work related to the different localisation options, and in particular the Bjørvika option. With the presentation of St.prp. No 48 for 1998-99 also provided a decision-making basis for the location of opera houses in Bjørvika, thus now considering this as a real location option. This time, the Committee, in its examination of the operacase, has re-examined to a small extent and discussed the many issues dealt with last year. This time, treatment has essentially focused on the location itself. As the situation shows, there is still disagreement, nor is there any majority position on localisation at this time. The largest minority fraction, consisting of the members of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, has proposed the construction of a new opera house in Bjørvika, and that this project be carried out independently of further road development and urban development in the area and on the basis of a separate regulatory plan. Another minority, the members of the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Center Party, propose the location of the new opera house in the Western Railway Area, and that a combined development model be introduced to maximise economic synergy by dropping into private investments on the area that is not used for the opera. In addition, this minority wishes to further strengthen the symbolic value of the building by combining the construction of an opera with a peace price centre in the main station building. The last minority, the members of the Progress Party, repeats the proposal they made at previous reading and asks the Government to scrap all plans for state-funded opera house. As mentioned above, the setting contains only minority proposals, which were the last case dealt with by Stortinget. The new thing is that, in line with the Government’s recommendation, government parties will open up to vote subsidiaryly for a location of the opera house of Bjørvika under certain conditions if their primary proposal for location on the western runway falls. The central parties are now taking responsibility for a new opera building in this country. Something else is not the Storting worthy. However, on the part of the centre parties, we will strongly emphasise our primary proposal to localise the new opera into the Western Railway as the best and most predictable alternative, both in terms of progress and costs. We have pointed to a number of factors that underpin this point of view, including: the West Railway solution provides for stable and good ground conditions, clear property conditions, foreseeable cost estimates, safe progress, good accessibility and optimal operating conditions from the start. The combination with a peace-price centre in the main station building, which will also be able to lead the architectural design, as well as an extended hotel and restaurant complex, will together constitute a unique package solution with great appeal. A monumental peace price centre linked to a cultural oasis that an opera is could achieve an unprecedented global exposure to which the country should not afford to say no. In order to improve the possibility of a good façade and a monumental solution for an opera on the West Railway and at the same time to free development areas, we found it right to go in for the repeal of the conservation decision that applies to the station master building from approx. 1919. This building does not seem to represent the same cultural historical value as the main station building itself, which dates back to the 1870s. We have recorded that this has aroused some discussion, which is natural, but we will nevertheless maintain that the construction of the cultural building of the century, as a national opera is, must be able to justify such an intervention. We point out that the Government also suggested this as a solution in the previous operaproposition, cf. St. Prop. No 37 for 1997-1998. Through such an intervention, one side-by-side of opening the front lot and ensuring better façade exposure will simultaneously free the area and trigger an economic gain. I would regret that the Progress Party, which itself took the initiative for talks with the Centre and the Right on a combination model of private investment in the West Railway Area – well to mark as a subsidiary solution on their part – later made a complete turnaround and withdrew. No one would be in the slightest doubt about the honest scepticism of the Advance Party for opera general and whole-hearted resistance to state-funded opera, after the party has proposed to scrape such opera plans twice in the Storting. What's really regrettable is that the party, having been voted down both times, chooses to stand out from the further decision-making process and now appears to be very comfortable with the adoption of the construction of an opera that will, with great certainty, cost the state hundreds of millions of dollars more. In reality, it is now the Progress Party which, by its inaction, decides that the opera should be built in Bjørvika. I therefore regret again the signals from the Progress Party that they do not want to vote subsidiaryly for the Western Railway option. Nevertheless, I allow myself to remind the People of the Advancement Party of the well-known Mountain Vet rule that there is no shame in turning around. At the same time, I also regret the lack of democratic flexibility of the Labour Party in this matter by the fact that, until those degrees, the party has closed down the possibility of voting in a subsidiary way for the West. I would remind you once again that two former cultural councils and a number of major representatives from this party have previously joined the Western Railway option. It's the center parties that have given in, and once they've done it, it's solely for cultural policy purposes. However, what will prevail today is that a decision will be taken to build a new opera house in Norway. Several decades' struggle for such a construction work to travel seems to be over. Therefore, this is a historic day and a triumphal day not only for opera art, but for art and culture in general in our country. The thorough investigation carried out by the Government has shown that it is possible to find a location for a new opera building in Bjørvika. We think an opera in Bjørvika can also be a good solution in the longer term, but the path to this goal is associated with greater uncertainty. As is known, uncertainty is primarily related to the basic conditions, the time it takes to dig up and get to be built, and not least the costs. It's a long distance down to the solid mountain. These are large quantities, and partly also contaminated, mass, which must be excavated and deposited elsewhere. The possibilities of finding important cultural memories are also not excluded. Both the progress and the cost picture are therefore more unpredictable and less predictable than the equivalent for the Western Railway option. In addition, the fact that the opera has been considered the beginning of a comprehensive urban development process for a whole new city in Bjørvika. However, the investments linked to the development of transport and the establishment of a finished urban structure are a separate chapter which we chose not to go into more detail in this process. Our position on subsidiary aid to Bjørvika therefore assumes that it is in line with the solution outlined by the Government, namely as an independent project, disconnected from both road and urban development and through a separate regulatory plan, if necessary also by using the opportunity provided by the Planning and Building Act to implement state regulation. The last assumption applies to the other two localisation options. However, our concern about an opera in Bjørvika is due not only to the cost and progress conditions, but perhaps the most operational situation for a new opera. It has been said that the opera house can be located quite isolated, at least for some time. However, I have noticed that the Government as well as the Municipality of Oslo have demonstrated that they will do their best to eliminate the disadvantages that may arise as a result of the development process. As mentioned above, there is considerable uncertainty also related to the construction process further at such an early stage. This relates in particular to the cost estimates. These will guide the further development of the projects. However, it is wise for the Government to wait for proposals on binding cost frameworks for the Storting to be presented at a later date and only after the architectural contest has been conducted and the foreproject has been developed. However, in the light of experience gained from other public buildings and with the uncertainty risk outlined specifically for the opera building, there is reason to stress that, if there are distortions in the assumptions made in the proposition regarding the progress and cost picture of the project, the Government will return to the Storing regarding this. Finally, I would just like to congratulate the Norwegian Opera on this day – and all the opera lovers and cultural interests in our country with them. The Norwegian Opera has been tempting a very awkward life in the Folketeater building for too long. Now it should at least be possible to see a light in the tunnel. Nevertheless, we must be realistic. It's still a little bit ahead. I also noticed what was written in the evening post today: ‘The opera case is a matter where the last words are never said.’ I do not overlook the fact that there may be anything in it. We might say that with the English term, 'It ain't over to the fat lady sings'. Then, finally, I will address the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Central Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1261	Ola T. Loans have taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1266	I noticed especially what the representative Lånke said about the tunnel, he hoped for a light in the tunnel. Now I thought it was the day not to discuss tunnels in the opera bag, so I'm going to ask for something completely different. I also noticed that the representative Lånk was a bit skeptical – to put it mildly – to Bjørvika. The scepticism of the Workers' Party is more about what has happened in relation to the West Railway, because the government parties in Stortinget will tear down the station master building on the West Railway. They want more space, not for the opera to get more to its right, but simply because they want to build hotels, shops and restaurants. It's actually the reason that's in the setting, written by Ola T. Loan. He has not at all used it in this setting to bring the Western Railway to its right, but what is written is that it triggers an economic gain. So here we get a reason for repealing a bail-out decision: economics. Then my question is, how will the law of cultural memory be to interpret after this? There are heavy burdens on people around who have to save buildings without much financial compensation from the state, and now the state itself can go ahead with a bad example for me by repealing a peace decision. For exactly one year – on one day near – since then, the representative Lånke said the opposite, namely that this rescue decision had to stand by. Has it now been sold to the People's Party, or is this Christian People's Party's real purpose that peace decisions should be lifted on an economic basis?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1275	The representative Grethe Fossum has on several occasions now attacked the centre parties just for this proposal to reverse the rescue decision in the case of the station master dwelling. I would like to make it very clear that there are two considerations below, including in the setting. First, it is to open the façade to the new opera, make it more accessible — at all, open to greater and better monumental exposure. That's the main reason. An equally large reason is that we want to free up a larger area to get to a total solution. Once we've agreed to this, it's not because we think it's easy to lift a peace decision. It shouldn't be easy, because the Cultural Memory Act is an important law, which we still want to fence around. But I think it'll actually strengthen the peacekeeping institute if we could make exceptions a rare time, and show that it's possible. I honestly believe that if we start to examine the history of the Workers' Party, we will see that they have quite a number of demolitions of protective buildings on their consciences. This house we are now building is the great cultural building of the century in Norway – a new national opera. If it couldn't justify a demolition of this building, which, after all, is almost 50 years younger than the main station building standing there, I don't understand what reason should be present. Let's disagree -- that's okay, but we've come to the conclusion that this is a reason that justifies such an intervention. I also show that Ketil Kiran of the Norwegian Architects' Federation has written one, at my discretion, a very instructive and good article that shows how architects think about this, linked to the Western Railway option.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1284	The representative Lånke is very concerned about the responsibility of the opera bag and the construction of a new opera house. He's deliberately trying to transfer responsibility to the Progress Party. The Progress Party, which has 25 out of 165 representatives in this house, must therefore be responsible for the fact that a massive majority at last want to start building an opera house in Bjørvika, which is likely to lead to an unparalleled blackout. I would like to ask the representative Lånk how he comes up with such a reasoning. Is it common practice in Norwegian democracy and in Norwegian society that a minority should be responsible for a totally irresponsible majority? Does the representative Lånke really believe that it is the task of the Progress Party, as a small group in this context, to bear responsibility for the large majority? Then the representative Lånker was involved in this because we have done a complete turnaround. Far from it. The progress party has had a direct and clear course: we are opposed to the construction of the opera. But it's true, as Lånker also says, we've had a dialogue, and it's been bearing fruits. We have had a reduction in costs through, if necessary, a decision on the western runway. But still there are 1.2 billion dollars left in government, public, building expenditure on the West. We haven't done a complete turnaround. I want an explanation from Lånke on how he can interpret it that way. We have not committed ourselves to either the government parties or anyone else.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1291	First of all, I have to say that the message claws the representative Sandberg when he talks about a small group that is going to take a big responsibility, which it does not want. So the small group is the second largest party group in the country. I don't think I'm going to go into this with complete reversion anymore, because I think the representative Sandberg knows very well what the whole reversal we're talking about. I have never doubted that the Progress Party has been opposed to the opera, at least state-funded opera. That's what I said in my article. What I said was that we were doing a good job talking, as it turned out that the Progress Party no longer wanted to be involved. It is, to a certain extent, respectable. I accepted it, although I thought we could still do it, because I thought we were in good hands. But what I think is strange is that once you've had your proposal to scrape all the plans twice, so to speak, you sit on the sideline and don't care more about the matter. You can't go out in politics. No one has no responsibility. We all have a responsibility! If you don't understand, you're brave, as it says in a well-known book. The one who doesn't collect, it spreads, it also says. There's something about that. I will again appeal to the Advance Party to think about this. NOK 1.2 billion is a lot of money. I totally agree with that. $1.8 billion is a lot, a lot more. Maybe it could be even more – what do we know? There is no guarantee that the estimates currently made will not keep either one or the other, but it is highly likely, or certain, that one option will be several hundred million dollars more reasonable. I hope the Progress Party takes note of this and makes a new turnaround. It's no shame to turn, as I said. I wish you every success in your assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1300	The representative Borrower referred to the Bible. It's tempting to do the same thing, because it actually says not to build your house on a sand ground. There are several people who should be angry. We all agree on the enormous importance of an opera building for Norwegian art and cultural life, and we all – with the exception of the Advance Party – agree that it is the responsibility of the state to contribute to the creation of a house, where it can evolve on its own premises, for the most part. But Stortinget also has a responsibility for public money consumption – that the government’s tasks are solved without unnecessary use of funds. The right and the government parties, like all the trade unions, agree that the West Railway is not only the ideal location in relation to the needs of the opera and the audience, but that this is also the cheapest solution. Nevertheless, the government parties will submit to the new political couples Labour Party and the Advance Party and, alternatively, vote for an unforeseeable cost-lock such as Bjørvika, which all the trade unions advise against. When the project investigation has reached the stage of adoption of the cost framework, is there any limit to what the Christian People's Party will accept? And will it then be possible to change today's decision? While last year’s Bjørvika option provided for a simultaneous development of the area, where road systems were provided for until the opera building was completed, this year’s proposal implies that today’s road system is assumed almost unchanged, only with a conversion of the exit from the example dock to 50 million. kr. I interpret this as saying that the government realizes that they are not going to go in for enough money to the transport sector to ensure that it is proper to go into an unprofitable investment like the Bjørvika tunnel. Does the representative Lånke agree with this assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1309	I agree with both the Bible and Inger Stolt-Nielsen that you should preferably avoid building on sand ground. Actually, there are also people who have warned me not to build too much on Sandberg. But it's a completely different matter. I understand that you are very concerned in the Right of the situation in Bjørvika. They have rewritten it in full in their comments, and it's just reading. I, and I think everyone who is with us in the centre parties, realize that there is a great deal of uncertainty about both progress and cost image in terms of the Bjørvika option, not least in terms of the urban development process itself, which is largely about roads and tunnels – traffic development. I have been a little careful in my contribution today to clarify just that our vote subsidiaryly for an opera in Bjørvika is linked only to an isolated solution, a separate opera solution disconnected from any road and urban development, as it says, and if necessary also through a separate regulatory plan. I also said that if the assumptions contained in the proposition regarding the Bjørvika option are shifted, I assume that the Government will return to the Stortinget with this. We are aware that this is a danger. That's exactly why we're operating with a primary option, which we think is much better. However, for the sake of opera art and for the sake of ending a hundred years' discussion on the construction of operas, we want to ensure such a decision by means of a subsidiary vote today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1320	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1324	It is today one year, one day near, since we last debated the construction of a new opera house. That year the Ministry of Culture has used well, and has now investigated the alternatives of the Folketeater Building, the West Railway and Bjørvika better than they had done last. I have to say that I am pleased that the Minister of Culture did not want to send the construction of a new opera house on desert migration. She shall have both praise for the work that has been done and the will she shows to have a new opera by recommending subsidiary voting on the Bjørvika option. The working party is pleased that the uncertainties of building a new opera house in Bjørvika have been carefully examined, and that the problems surrounding what it will cost to build and how long the construction will take now seem to be under control. The government has proposed where the opera in Bjørvika should be located and indicates that the technical problems of construction in Bjørvika can be solved. A new opera house shall be a monumental building, whether on the West Railway or in Bjørvika. The architectural design should have roots in the past, but at the same time show lines into the next millennium. It will give rise to new architectural challenges, and artists will have great tasks in decorating the opera building itself. But the most important thing is actually what's going to happen within the walls of the opera. I believe and hope that the opera will be the birthplace for the new development of ballet, opera and music theatre that will have impact fields throughout Norway. Opera art is a young art start in Norway, and it deliberately needs to bet. Like all other arts, the opera needs to be renewed to survive. Therefore, the opera house will be involved in creating new opera traditions, a new, modern opera language both in the opera house itself and out in the district opera. My hope is that a new opera house should be a source of inspiration for the opera's artists and opera-interested people in the rest of the country. Some politicians seem to need an excuse to build a new opera house. At least they will have solved all other problems before they grant money for cultural purposes. Culture in all its multiplicity is for the joy, inspiration, utility and enjoyment of very many people. A nation without an active cultural life will experience stagnation, decline and little innovation. Many of our great warriors who have gone out to conquer land have known that taking the culture from a people makes oppression much more effective. As a small mention of what is happening in Kosovo today, Milosevic has just used it as an excuse to make ethnic cleansing in Kosovo that Kosovo is actually Serbia's cultural cradle. It shows that culture means a lot to a people, both in a historical perspective and in a future perspective. Cultural life must be diverse and in its midst Norway needs a national opera. Some claim that building an opera in Bjørvika is bad cultural policy. I would argue that it would be even worse cultural policy not to want to build an opera at all. Building an opera in Bjørvika means that you can build without having to scale to conservation decisions or for example. for the construction style in the area. It makes it easier to meet the needs that the Opera actually has. Is it bad cultural policy to build an opera near the sea, actually in one of the areas that I think will at least be Oslo's most sought after in the future? The Labour Party doesn't think it's stupid cultural policy. Many have raised doubts about the Workers' Party's willingness to build an opera. I can assure everyone that the Workers' Party last time we dealt with this matter, it was the party that voted with the SV to build an opera. At the time, as now, the Workers' Party has a clear desire for a new opera building to provide the best possibilities on stage for the artists, and that it should not least give the audience an experience of opera and ballet at a high level. The difference between the position of the Labour Party today and a year ago is there, I can assure you. The Workers' Party also extends to build a new opera. The working party has always believed that laying an opera house in Bjørvika could be the beginning of an urban development. But the idea has not been that the financing of the opera building itself should involve urban development funds. The Workers' Party has therefore underlined in its comments that we support the Government that construction of opera houses in Bjørvika should not be made dependent on the progress of other urban development in this area. That should be quite clear speech. At the same time, these members have also joined the Government's assumption that any location of a new opera house in Bjørvika could be carried out as an independent project. The working party has also accepted the choice of land, 6a and 6b, proposed in the proposal. I refer to our proposal, as it would be entirely acceptable for the government parties to support subsidiaryly, as the members of the government parties have underlined in their comments that they will do if the Western Railway option falls. Let me take up a point in the comments of the government parties and the Right, which I think is quite provocative. These members have wanted to repeal the rescue decision for the station master building on the West Railway. This is alarming, in particular because the justification to justify the demolition of the station master building would be that the demolition would trigger a financial gain. This, together with adding up the land costs on the West Railway and the land costs in Bjørvika to show that the decision to grant the West Railway will be much cheaper, is, in my view, a way of using the state budget that is not a believer in economic reality. It would also be interesting to know – I'll ask the Council of State if it has ever happened before a rescue decision has been lifted in this way. It is also a little curious that the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Center parties are already planning to conduct detailed maintenance, cleaning, occupational health and costume production in a new opera house, which may be completed in seven years' time. It may testify to some forward-looking prophecies, but I sincerely believe that it should be left to the administration of the Norwegian Opera to get to this best, cheapest and most effective when that time comes. But these little things – not the peace decision, it is not among the small things in the eyes of the Workers' Party – can actually be seen in a different light than trying to tempt the Progress Party to vote for an opera alternative that the Progress Party strongly opposes. Tempting another party can be quite expensive, and I think the centre parties and the Right have paid with their cultural political credibility by lifting the decision on the peace of the station master building.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1356	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1359	The representative Fossum began by pointing out that she is very pleased that the proposition has now helped to remove many of the uncertainties surrounding the Bjørvika option. The representative also says that there seems to be full control of the costs of any construction in Bjørvika. I would like to ask the representative a few questions. I have come to understand that the representative of Fossum in the media has said that this is not about frames, but this is about estimates. Can the representative Fossum in any way provide guarantees in relation to price developments in Bjørvika? Does the representative Fossum think that the estimates contained in the bill of DKK 1.8 billion are sufficient to complete a monumental construction in Bjørvika? The representative Fossum is also involved in the conservation decision concerning the station master building on the West Railway. And then I have a question: if you were to do archaeological findings, possibly in Bjørvika, in connection with the project, will the representative Fossum then reverse his interest in Bjørvika and fall back on his primary wish, which is the West Railway? I am also interested in asking the representative Fossum about what has happened in relation to last year's treatment, where the only argument the Workers' Party had at the time to go for Bjørvika was urban development. But what's on the table today doesn't contain anything about urban development. So all the reasoning from last year has fallen away. So now there has to be new arguments for the Workers' Party to go for the most expensive and the most money-consuming option.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1370	It is at least a pleasure to me that the Progress Party in this debate, unlike the operabatter last year, is concerned with cultural policy issues rather than driving the Opera up against sick, elderly and healthy cows. The representative Sandberg asked if I could guarantee a price development, and then I would return the question to the Progress Party: can they, as a political party, restrict the market? Can he himself guarantee that a price development today will be like the one we're going to get tomorrow? I think that question is completely impossible to answer. What the government is likely to say when the decision is taken is to think carefully about what the costs will be of the option that has been chosen, and to come back to the Stortinget with the allocation needs at that time, and which then takes into account whether the price increase goes up or down, whether there are other things coming in, or other things going out – we will see that in the fullness of time. Then the representative Sandberg has observed correctly when he says that the Workers' Party is engaged in peacekeeping decisions. In fact, we are so concerned that we support the Government in what it has done in relation to the fact that the deadline might be shifted by up to three months if you find shipwreck. It's added 10 million. Extra kroner for that. The people we've been talking to in the committee say that based on experience in similar areas, there are both 10 million. kr and an extended period of three months enough to ensure compliance, where appropriate, also in Bjørvika. I'm sorry I can't answer the third question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1381	The last Christian People's Party in government, almost ten years ago, was working on proposals for the construction of opera on the West Railway came quite far. But there was a change of government, so there was nothing of it. The labor party took over, and one had a good chance of doing something in relation to the construction of the opera. When we look at work today, everyone might agree that we should have done something about the construction of an opera a long time ago. Two cultural ministers from the Workers' Party have come with a wish to build an opera on the West Railway, but it has not been done. I wonder how sincere the commitment to the Workers' Party is to really build an opera. Is it like Grethe G. Fossum mentioned in his post, that some people need an excuse to build opera houses? Is it so that, for the Workers' Party, the urban development in Bjørvika is the driving force for building an opera house there? Why hasn't the Workers' Party placed other buildings in Bjørvika, if one would definitely have another building there to speed up urban development? Why is it that the Opera should be located there, when many colleges have stated that there will also be an advantage to the fact that there is an already established urban structure? The Western Railway will be a much better location for the Opera and the Opera as compared to an establishment in Bjørvika. The Western Railway will also provide for a more secure progress of the project, both in time and at cost. Does not Grethe Fossum see the many positive aspects by adding the Opera to the Western Railway, precisely by considering the Opera itself and the cultural policy, which is the most important thing in this matter? Or is that the urban development that really is the reason why the Labour Party wants an opera?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1390	It is true that two cultural ministers from the Workers' Party have gone out with their personal view of where they want the Opera to lie. But it is also true that this has never been discussed in the Labour Party Government to make a real decision about it. Neither – I have been with this for so long and discussed this – has it been discussed in the big group of the Workers' Party or in the central board of the Workers' Party if we were to choose the Western Railway or Bjørvika, before we got the case on the table a year and a day ago. The representative May-Helen Molvær Grimstad will believe the Workers' Party that we want to build an opera. We sincerely believe that it is the house and the opera that will pay off for the Opera. Our commitment actually shows that we're actually picking the most expensive option. An opera in Bjørvika costs SEK 1.8 billion and on the West Course DKK 1.6 billion. The other thing that shows that we have a sincere opera exposure is that last year, along with SV, we also voted to build an opera. When it comes to setting up urban development and operating against each other, I have underlined in my post that opera construction is a matter for itself. Private business may be developing, but operapenenes may not be used for urban development.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1399	I think it's interesting when the representative Fossum says that when two cultural ministers from the Workers' Party have had an opinion about the Western Railway, it's really just a personal meaning and nothing to pay particular attention to. It might say a little bit about the influence of cultural politicians in the Workers' Party. In her speech, the representative Fossum drew parallels to Serbia and the Kosovo conflict, saying that one of the reasons for the war was that Kosovo was the cultural cradle of Serbia. I don't know if I see the parallel to today's debate. There's been a war on the opera cause. It is well – with the exception of a few in Oslo Arbeiderparti – very few who will claim that Bjørvika is the cradle of culture in Norway. The main reason for the working party last year to place the opera in Bjørvika was that this should be urban development. They wrote in their comments: ‘These members consider it irresponsible not to exploit the potential of this major task as a locomotive for urban development.’ This year, Bjørvika continues to apply to the Workers' Party, but now the urban development aspect is strongly downplayed. Now, in the notes: ‘These members agree with the Government’s assumption that any location of a new opera house in Bjørvika can be carried out as an independent project.’; So it's no longer urban development that's the main reason for Bjørvika. The need for an opera in Bjørvika is 375 million. kr greater than for the Western Railway. Then it must be the cultural policy that is the main argument for Bjørvika. What are the cultural policy arguments for placing Norway’s new national opera in a traffic machine? What key cultural organisations and institutions have recommended Bjørvika over the Western runway?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1418	I got hurt in order to argue that even cultural ministers in a government that has resigned from the Workers' Party are actually allowed to have private opinions on matters, but that it only makes sense for the Workers' Party when we have the democratic processes, that is. that it is up to the central government, up to national meetings, etc. I don't know if the Right has those processes, but we actually have them. It is also allowed in a social democratic party to have their own opinions. It's okay to have, even for cultural figures, and they'll be listened to in the party, I can assure you that. Then I tried – carefully as I was – to explain why culture was so important. That's why I took the example from Kosovo and told them how to use the cradle of culture as an excuse to start an ethnic cleansing. There was nothing more in it. The representative of Trond Helleland is of the opinion that adding the Opera in Bjørvika is irresponsible. Despite that, I have realized that the Right in Oslo has actually wanted to develop Bjørvika. They might not have it now, they might have it in 30 years, but at least they'll have an opportunity to get that area of Oslo opened to the sea. And I really hope that the Right of the Storting has the same visions of the future, regardless of whether the Opera is put there or not. The reason for adding the Opera to Bjørvika is cultural policy, and it may be that some feel uncertainty about the surrounding, but for the Workers' Party the intention is to build an opera, and then we hope for a private urban development.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1431	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1434	I have been allocated 20 minutes in this debate. I can signal right away that there will be debate time left. This debate has now marked the media and the Stortinget for almost a year and a half. Personally, I consider this whole matter to be debated, but I will try briefly to explain the purpose and involvement of the Advance Party in the matter. One year ago, in the first round of operations, the estimate for an opera in Bjørvika was DKK 1.4 billion. I also put a big question mark on this estimate at the time. I think at the time I was quite so modest with an estimate of nearly 2,000 million. kr. Now when I see that the estimate in the proposition is increased by 400 million. kr in a year, I take self-criticism that I was too modest last year. But I take it at the same time as confirming that my scepticism last year was justified. When also the representative Grethe Fossum and the representative Ola T. Loan through the media repeatedly points out that this year's estimate should not be confused with a frame, I have no doubt that my modest estimate last year is 2000 million. Not only was the message, but it might also be naive. I don't think I take too many words in my mouth when I say that when the majority in this Chamber, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left, adopts a possible construction of an opera in Bjørvika completed in 2008, the bill they will present to the Norwegian people in the 2009 election campaign will sound something quite different than $1,800 million. kr. It's more obvious to think that there might be a bill on the table of nearly 3,000 million. kr. Or let me say it another way. Every year, up to and including 2008, Norwegian taxpayers will have to pay 550 million. kr for construction and operation of opera in Norway. 550 million. SEK – 170 million. NOK for operation and NOK 375 million. kr for investments for the new opera. I also assume that the same batches are going to find cover for these means. And here I have to disappoint the representative Fossum a little bit. She was so happy that in this debate we did not repeat our priorities. But now I'm going to do it. Let the Advance Party dispose of these 550 million. kr., then all our hospitals will have top modern equipment in 2009, all our elderly people will get exclusive, our schools will be updated to sound educational institutions, etc. I am aware that the Special Representative Fossum will call this populist and say that we are trying to set up groups against each other, but for the Progress Party it is about priority. It is interesting to note that if we go back to February 1997, Dagbladet had a look-up with former Prime Minister Thorbjørn Jagland, where it says: No to opera, yes to enerom. I wanted to go on the offensive. He made it quite clear that there was no opera building for the Workers' Party during this period before the Workers' Party had fulfilled its promise that all the older people would get exclusive as desired. I do not believe that the promise is fulfilled, but it is clear that before a campaign is all possible in the Labour Party. So for this year's debate on the Opera. On presenting the proposition, I and the Progress Party realized that we could not prevent a decision on the construction of an opera, in line with what we got last year. This is because the Government and the Council of State in a way played out all their cards and through it the Workers' Party got the bay and both ends by signalling subsidiary voting for Bjørvika. As a result, the Progress Party has entered into a dialogue with the Government Parties in the hope of reducing the costs for Norwegian taxpayers. This has also led to the conclusion. This process has demonstrated to the Party that it is possible to build an opera with a design, content and quality in line with the wishes of the proposition at a much lower price. However, regardless of whether the price was reduced, the State still has to contribute more than NOK 1 billion to this prestige building. It was this big group of the Advance Party who said no. We couldn't accept so much public expenditure. When the Progress Party has clarified its position on the matter, there are a lot of unsubstantiated arguments about the responsibility. Last year, the Progress Party and I got a lot of criticism because we put up a strategy where we waited to present our position until we got to the hall. This year I said quite early that I had intentions that the position of the Progress Party would be presented at a time when the large majority in the Chamber would be responsible for placing the Opera. We have! But when it is repeatedly said by several representatives, it is reflected that the Progress Party must in some way be held responsible for the construction of the opera in Bjørvika, I feel the need to clarify this card. To be honest, I didn't think it was necessary to clarify to the representatives of Storting that it is the majority of a decision that must also take responsibility, but so it is: there are 165 representatives in the Norwegian Grand Prix. The progress party has 25 of these -- of course, too little, if you ask me, but that's the situation. The party of progress today, as the only party, will vote against a state building of opera. In other words, the Stortinget, with a majority of 140 representatives, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Centre Party, SV and the Left, has decided that an opera house should be built – I have questioned the representative of Bastisen here. Of course, the fact that the Progress Party remains firm in its decisions also in the case of the majority disagreement on the location does not require us, who in this context become a small group, to bear some responsibility for the decision of this massive majority. If such a practice were to be introduced into the Norwegian metropolitan and Norwegian democracies – in any case taking responsibility for the irresponsible decisions and priorities of any majority – it would frighten the water of some people in order to enter into politics. If the government parties are responsible for the uncertainty about the costs of Bjørvika, which they are so committed to expressing with regard to the Advance Party, they must prove this uncertainty, they must prove the responsibility they are trying to impose on the Advance Party by voting against the Bjørvika option. It is not that there is any external force that forces neither the Christian People's Party nor any of the other parties in the Government to such a vote. For the centre party, however, I have recorded such a force, and it comes from their trusted and party friends in the districts. The government parties still have an opportunity to show a lack of accountability and, through this, to take full responsibility where it belongs: at the Workers' Party – the Workers' Party, which, through the representative Grethe Fossum, repeatedly tries to stick an uncertainty element at the Progress Party's position in this matter. Grethe Fossum represents Norway's largest party, the Workers' Party, and they have not yet understood why they want Bjørvika – it is almost that I suspect Grethe Fossum and the rest of the Workers' Party to have a strong desire for the Progress Party to support the West Railway in order to relieve the Workers' Party's future conscience night, which is likely to emerge as the price estimates for Bjørvika will advance towards completion in 2008. But I'm going to promise, it's not going to happen. The Workers' Party shall, together with the other parties which obtain the majority of Bjørvika, assume that responsibility itself. For the Workers' Party's argument and position – which is actually designed by the Oslo Workers' Party, and which, as has been said, has led two former cultural ministers from the party to turn, and also the representative Grethe Fossum and, for that part, the entire Workers' Party's big group – have fallen away! There is no urban development in this option; there is no better use of the appropriations for an opera in Bjørvika in this option. The only outcome of this will be that the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, on a strange, principled basis, force through a new cash drain, in Bjørvika – and the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, thus give their support to this. And if there's still any doubt, I'd like to repeat, in conclusion, that the Progress Party will vote against all the alternatives to the construction of the opera, no matter where it is located. Finally, I would like to support the motion put forward by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1474	Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1480	I am pleased with the assurance now given by the representative of the Progress Party that they will stand for what they have said, namely to vote against the Western Railway and against Bjørvika. It is almost so that I release the joy soon, but I will wait a little longer, because I am not of the kind that gives me until the judge has blown. Multiple decisions give accountability, says Sandberg. Responsibility is also with the Progress Party in the 1999 budget, when they actually joined with the government parties and supported a whole lot – including in the field of cultural policy. In fact, they were in attendance and granted 173 million. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, They did – not to save on public spending, but to get the opportunity to spend more, to get the opportunity to spend SEK 2.8 billion on cash support. And if you add these two numbers, 173 million. NOK for opera and NOK 2.8 billion for cash support, I have actually calculated that there are 7,500 sick homes. Perhaps the representative of the Progress Party can demand that they are so culturally hostile, and that they are actually responsible for spending money in such a way. And it might be interesting to hear if the representatives of the Progress Party wanted to use e.g. property tax, which would give an income of NOK 4.3 billion. It would mean taking from the rich and giving to hospitals. There are also other calculations that the representative of the Progress Party can use. I noticed that the post was completely free from the opera. It didn't surprise me. But I note that the Progress Party must not go into the election campaign and say that they do not support cultural action, because they have done so by actively joining with the central government and giving support to the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1489	I don't think the representative Fossum is going to let go completely yet, because I, too, who's been playing football for some time, are playing until the flute goes. I also think that the representative Fossum is right in this case here. I see the line that the representative Fossum had to me now, confirming how high on the priority list the Workers' Party is setting up opera construction. When the Workers' Party performs to set it up against the state budget and the responsibility for getting a government budget into port, it becomes to me a little paradoxical when they express such a priority. Grethe G. Fossum knows very well that the Progress Party had an alternative budget that would have taken care of all this with sick beds, elderly care, health cows, etc. But our alternative to the 1999 budget was perhaps to have a majority with the Labour Party. But both the representative Fossum and the rest of the Workers' Party put their claws straight out, they turned themselves out completely, so it's a responsibility issue that we might have to look at in a different context. That my post was free from opera, I initially said. I didn't use my whole time either, because this opera bag I've been debating over a year and a half. I do not think there is any doubt at all as to how the Progress Party is dealing with this matter. That's why I saw no reason to spend more than 10 minutes on the opera either. But I'm going to promise the representative Fossum that when we talk about the budget for 2000, and maybe 2002, I'll remind her of the challenge that has come up in this line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1500	The representative Per Sandberg mentioned in the article’s election campaign in 2009. He had long visions ahead of him about what the cost will be of an opera. But one can also think relatively short-term. In the closest election campaign, about which the Progress Party is so concerned, this is the case with the use of money for right purposes. Now the representative Sandberg knows that there is a solid plurality on Stortinget to build an opera, and that the center party has done what they can to bring down costs on the West Railway. The representative Per Sandberg has also really been on his way to bring the party on a subsidiary search. But what I'm asking is, is whether it's like the Oslo Labour Party, which has said that they want an opera in Bjørvika, which actually dominates the Progress Party. Is it so that Carl I. Hagen's real wish is to have an opera in Bjørvika – that he has taken a drive, parked in Bjørvika and thrown the keys at the bottom of the sea because they don't want to be on any further drive? Because by not being there, they end up there, just like Carl I. Hagen might want. This allows them to select the most expensive solution. It's a reality that for the cultural and the opera part, we want an opera decision today. We don't want to take a chance and risk a new uncertainty, like we did a year ago, which did not give us an opera decision. If the Progress Party really wants to be credible, they can say that if their proposals fall, we will be involved and contribute to the most reasonable solution. So they can calculate the amount of money left over, whether it's in hospital or in hospital. It's up to the Progress Party. But by standing still, they get what Oslo Arbeidarparti wants – an opera in Bjørvika.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1511	I might have spent the last 10 minutes I had on my main post, anyway. I think I tried as best as possible to explain to the representatives here in Stortinget how it works when it's a minority and a majority. But here, the representative, Molvær Grimstad, performs to make the exact same statements. To repeat what I said, the party of progress is going to vote against Bjørvika. But I suppose the representative Molvær Grimstad is going to vote for Bjørvika. And it is in this context that I have said that when the representative Molvær Grimstad is going to the election campaign – if she is going to go to the election campaign – in 2009, she will present the bill, not the Progress Party. The representative of Molvær Grimstad also spent a lot of time on parliamentary leader Carl I. Hagen. Now I don't have the task of signalling what primary and secondary wishes Hagen has, but we've had a process in the party where I've presented this to our big group for three rounds. And I can reassure the representative Molvær Grimstad that Carl I. Hagen was not alone in the majority who voted down what we had come up with. The truth is, he was behind a massive majority. And that I didn't manage to get a majority for what we came up with in the dialogue with the government parties, you can say a lot about it. But I, like all the representatives in this room, relate to the democratic forms that exist in the individual party, and work out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1523	Now, I guess Per Sandberg wasn't all the way into the representative of Molvær Grimstad's point, that's that Carl I. Hagen could get what he wants without taking responsibility for the decision itself. That is the problem in the matter itself. Otherwise I will not bother the representative Sandberg too much with the relationship with the decisions that are coming. But it's quite striking that he's trying to argue that just one goes out, and there's no responsibility in the process either. It's not that easy to be elected. The whole point is that once the main proposal of the Progress Party has fallen, the Progress Party could choose to go in for the best and cheapest option. That's not going to happen to the Progress Party. But then they are also responsible for their vote, namely that it will be the most expensive and the worst. Sandberg can't talk from that, and I won't bother him to ask that question again. But he's going to meet this, not in the 2009 election campaign, but I can assure him that he's going to meet it in every election campaign until 2009. The party responsible for progress is the most expensive and the worst solution. So I thought I'd be a little friendly to Sandberg, because he's actually the closest to a flash of light that comes to the Progress Party in terms of culture. It doesn't shine very long at the time, it is, but at least it's the closest. He was initially in a slightly general consideration, although he very quickly also got out of it. But when you hear progressive party people talk about culture, you get the closest idea that culture is a way of using their leisure time with value roughly in line with the cabal. My question to the representative Sandberg is: What function does Sandberg culture have in society?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1536	It's almost that when Jan Petersen somehow sees me as a sparkle in the Advancement Party, I have to be allowed to repeat that I consider that to be a dead kiss. I'm not going to go further, President. What's interesting, I think, is that Petersen is also trying to point this out with responsibility, that the Progress Party indirectly helps to achieve the most expensive option. Yes, but the exact same responsibility is also on the Right. The right may also freely vote for Bjørvika if they so wish. The right can also vote in favour of the proposals of the Party of Presidents, which will be voted on first, because they know the outcome. One could also say that about the government parties. This with the place of culture in Norway, Jan Petersen and I discussed a little earlier, otherwise in a pleasant and quiet program. In this context, I said that culture for me personally, and what we in the Progress Party stress, is that culture is created by the individual himself, and not by the fact that 165 representatives in the Stortinget sit and decide that opera will become a cultural diversity in Norway in the future, and therefore grant up to 3,000 million. NOK 300 million and also annual allocation. kr for the operation of an opera. We know that in completely different areas, if we were to use the same subsidies, we would have talked about excessive funds. I know that Jan Petersen is an avid operator, but he must honestly admit that through his 10 – 15 visits to the Opera he is being subsidized by Norwegian taxpayers by NOK 20 000 per year. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1547	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1550	The Opera cause means a gold-plated chance for the Advance Party to show financial accountability. Everyone knows they don't want an opera, but this year they can't stop a decision. Their names will be attached to the Opera whether they will or not, either as the party that made sure that the Opera got the cheapest and best location, or as the party that made sure that the Opera was as expensive as possible, located in a crossroads unrelated to the cultural environment existing in Oslo. There's a voting obligation in this room, so the party can't wonder the consequences of their own voting even if they use the no-button. Everyone else sees the need for an opera building, a building that is this only-start and Norway worthy of cultural nation, a building where choirs and orchestras can practice without causing hearing damage, which will give singers, musicians, dancers and choreographers a better opportunity for artistic development, and which can give the Norwegian Opera sufficient opportunity to be the resource and competence base and cooperation partner for the regional and district operas they are asking for. Right wants the opera building to be a monumental building, both functional and beautiful. The choice is between two alternative locations: the Western Railway, which meets the needs of the Opera and the audience, or the Bjørvika, which meets the needs of individual Oslo politicians for freedom of choice in the east of Oslo, and for which the respective clusters are whipped to vote. Should partisanism also be swinging over culture and also forcing culture to subjugate? One thing is that this is going to cost taxpayers awfully many extra unnecessary millions. Another thing is that Bjørvika gives the Opera much worse operating conditions than a cheaper and better location on the West Railway. There is no overall plan for the development of Bjørvika, and there is a great danger that the opera here will be isolated in a crossroads for many years. It's not without reason that the Opera itself fears an audience failure and thus lower performance. A new opera house would provide better opportunities for innovative music and dance, but if the Opera is to have an economic power, it will depend on even and good audience streaming. The innovative often has a tight birth and becomes very rare cash success overnight. The narrow performances, the new music and the dance, don't easily draw full houses in the first place. On the West Railway, the Opera will be able to count on a steady attendance of spontaneous audiences for all the performances, people who are in the area and who decide on impulse to go to the Opera because they see that there are free tickets. If the Opera loses this audience and thereby loses profits, their economic ability to set up new productions is reduced. Should the Opera have to scrape its ambitions on artistic development and innovation, and rock the economy of old classics for years? Is this what cultural development is? The location of the Opera means a lot to both Oslo and the rest of the country. I haven't received a single contact from people in the country who want an opera in Bjørvika, but I've got a lot from people who want an opera building on the West Railway, the many who from time to time are in Oslo and who want both a cultural experience and the environment around the cultural institutions in the heart of the city where other audiences also travel. Therefore, they want the Opera to the West Railway, in the infrastructure where it naturally belongs, and not isolated between traffic and the monks. These are audiences that the Opera can lose in Bjørvika. A construction in Bjørvika must be granted at 375 million. kr more than the West Railway, where the State owns the plot. I'm not going to repeat anything about opportunities for private investment, but I'm going to point out that in Bjørvika the ratio is the opposite. Where are the private investors who can be expected to enter here before the traffic system is changed, at a completely useless public cost of about NOK 3 billion? The positive investors of the fourth year envisaged a simultaneous total development of the area at a public cost rejected by the majority. In addition, basic work may turn out to be several times more expensive than the estimated 265 million. kr. What is the performance potential of a building here, then, not to have to answer to build it? This is of great importance for the future development of Bjørvika, and this should have been clarified. Putting the Opera here without having any idea what else is going to come is, as the Norwegian Federation of Architects says, completely irresponsible. We easily lose the sense of numbers when the numbers get high. But 375 million. I am surprised that the government parties can recommend such additional costs as only the Oslo Workers' Party and the Progress Party have enjoyed and that District Norway will have to suffer for many years through reduced appropriations. Right grant with joy to an opera on the West Railway. We would be very pleased, but we have to say no to the money drained in Bjørvika. We have a responsibility here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1573	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1576	I registered that the representative Stolt-Nielsen had not received a single phone call from someone who was interested in investing in Bjørvika. In order to make history very short, I recommend the representative Stolt-Nielsen to read the evening post for Tuesday, May 19, 1998, where investors – some of the heaviest in housing and public construction – stand out clearly and will go into Bjørvika. After hearing the article, I understand that Stolt-Nielsen may have difficulties registering what is happening outside her own office. I remember well when the Right National Meeting was at the Safari in Old Oslo, how valuable they thought that part of the town was, also the Bjørvika area. But after the post that was made here today, Bjørvika is described as an area that is totally uninterested in any context. And the Right has systematically used terror propaganda in the fight against the Bjørvika. The last play came from the head of the Transport Committee, Oddvard Nilsen, who claims that the construction of an opera in Bjørvika will go beyond road investments and tunnels in District Norway. My question is: Has not the Right taken inwards that in 1998 the Stortinget adopted a road and road traffic plan which has also started in the Bjørvika area, which will be ready in 2007?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1587	Joda, the representative Stolt-Nielsen has brought it with him. But this representative has also come to realize that one then requires far greater appropriations for the transport sector than a majority in this Chamber is willing to invest in. I have also registered that there are 15 profitable road projects in front of Bjørvika – which have a negative value in investments. This is because the Storting does not allow enough to implement the plan that the Storting itself has adopted, one will have to look at the priorities again. As I was in my post, the investors were ready last year, provided that there was a road system. There was an entire package last year, and the majority in this room said no. There is clearly a recognition in this Chamber that government parties have not intended to follow up the rate of allocation for the development of transport, and thereby urban development, which was the basis for the adoption of the road and road traffic plan. We just have to take note of this. It's the right that pushes in every context to get the budgets up on this. After all, the working party does not want more for transportation. Nevertheless, they will have a tunnel in Bjørvika with a negative cost-benefit – minus NOK 1 billion. How can they believe this when we have 15 pedigree projects with a positive cost-benefit that have not yet started but are adopted in Norwegian road and road traffic plans?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1598	In the introductory part of his statement, the representative from the Right stated that the Progress Party could not avoid the consequences of the opera decision that will come tonight. I would remind the representative that a no means no to the Progress Party, but it obviously does not. The last right wanted to say no, they finally said yes, and then we got the Gardermo. It might well be right to think a little bit about when to make the Progress Party financially responsible for where and how to build the opera. I want to remind you that there are 140 representatives in this room who are in favour of opera, there are 25 who are against, and then it's probably far from the point of view of demanding the Advance Party to be the party to show the healthy economic judgment. The 140 representatives who are in favour of opera should be able to show that for themselves. I would like to ask the representative from the Right if she can explain why it is the responsibility of the Progress Party to contribute to sensible, economic solutions for the construction of an opera that we have been against absolutely all along.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1607	The comparison with the airport at Gardermoen is not completely parallel. Because in the airport case, the option was a shared solution between Gardermoen and Fornebu, while here it's about where the opera should be. It's not about putting the ballet to Bjørvika and the song and the music to the West Railway. Here it's about creating an opera house, to which a majority in this hall says yes. It is that no matter how large or small the party group is, when it sits on the tip, where Carl I. Hagen thrives best, it has a responsibility for how it votes. Saying no has an unforeseeable economic consequence, and saying yes may mean the establishment of a prestigious cultural reputation, but, as the representative Sandberg said, it is a mortal sin in the Progress Party. So we also get other people to pay dearly so that the representatives of the Advance Party do not commit mortal sins and make a sensible decision in this operating matter. It's sad, but that's the way it is. It's just to relate to it. The party of progress will never be able to run away from the responsibility to use either the yes button or the no button, because here it is mandatory to vote, one cannot just stand up and leave the hall. They could have done it, but they can't. An economically responsible party is obliged to consider the consequences of both a yes and a no. This has been done by the Progress Party, Carl I. Hagen gets his will, the Opera will be located in Bjørvika, and I am blessing the new relationship between the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. It's going to be nice to see how it's going to be in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1614	No one should be in any doubt that the Right is very interested in building an opera. They've stressed that strongly. We have also worked closely together to design the Western Railway option. The right also has a leader who likes to be referred to as Storting's largest opera enthusiast, so there's no doubt about the interest. But I think there's more doubt about whether the Right at all has an overall strategy for how we can get an opera. If the Western Railway Alternative falls, the Right does not have a solution. What is the right-hand option? The right has been very concerned with the situation of the current opera in the Folketheater Building, how cruel it is. But does the Right believe, if there is no opera decision today, that you should continue to be there? Are we going to get a reprisal of what happened last year, that there will be no opera decision? Is that what the Right Strategy is? My question to the representative, Mr Stolt-Nielsen, is therefore: what strategy does Right have to build an opera if it turns out that their proposal does not have a majority?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1623	Unfortunately, it is a fact that the Right cannot alone determine where the Opera should be located. But the question is whether it was strategically wise to promote this opera bag again already now, or whether one should have waited for the next big one. That's the big question here. For the composition of the Storting is exactly the same this year as it was last year. Last year, the Minister of Culture wanted to be in charge of this, but she will no longer do so this year. I think it's worrying that a Minister of Culture is giving away control over the greatest cultural investment of the century and leaving it to chance. We often talk about a political game, but this is a black player game of dimensions. And who's finally gonna be sitting with a black man? Maybe it'll be the Opera. But some names will attach to this. We could possibly have gotten a better, fairer and faster operating solution by putting the decision into the next majority period, knowing how difficult the conditions were in this collapse. It might have made a lot of sense to Norwegian cultural life. We can just regret that this isn't going to happen. Now the representative Lånke has opened up that if this becomes too expensive, the Storting must do it again, and then we have spent millions on architectural competition and on project investigation. If the matter comes to Stortinget one time out in the next majority period, and Stortinget says no, we are back at the exact point we were before today's proposition was made. Reasonable? I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15.ana.ud809e1628	At least there won't be any more card games now. The time for the change in line is running out, and the time for the morning meeting is up. New meeting will be scheduled at 2.30 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
