ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e37	The following called alternates have taken their seat: For the West-Agder province: Sigmund Kroslid For Akershus County: Julie Christiansen For the province of Hordaland: Terje Søviknes, Sigurd Grytten and Magnar Lussand For Oslo: Anders Hornslien For Telemark County: Marthe Scarning Lund For Vestfold County: Trond Mathisen For Eastfold County: Morten Olsen From the summons of the Deputy Representative of the Vestfold County, Jan Th. Langaard, there is an application to be exempted from meeting under Per Ove Width's leave from 27 May to 31 May, for welfare reasons. The President proposes that this application be dealt with immediately and be accepted. - It's a note. Other alternates, Anders Anundsen, are proposed to meet during the leave period. - That's a confession, too. There are several permissive requests: from President Kirsti Kolle Grondahl on leave today, 2 and 3 June to lay down a foundation for the Sameting Building in Karasjok, and 4 June to take part in the celebration of the Kingdom of Denmark's Kingdom of Denmark's 150th anniversary in Copenhagen from representatives Berit Brørby and Erik Dalheim on leave today, 27 and 28 May – both to participate in the 14th session of the Nordic Council Baltic Assembly in Vilnius from the representative Kjell Engretsen on leave from 27 May to 31 May to take part in the election observation of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, OSCE, during the parliamentary elections in Armenia from representatives Anneliese Dørum and Thore Aksel Nistad on leave from 31 May to 4 June – both to participate as observers during the parliamentary elections in South Africa The President proposes that applications be dealt with immediately and that they be accepted. - It's a note. From the meeting alternate representative of the Vestfold County, Karin Lian, there is an application to be released to meet under the representative Jørgen Kosmos leave Friday 28 May for welfare reasons. The President proposes that the application be examined immediately and accepted. - It's a note. The first representative of Akershus County, Rikke Lind, is currently abroad and is thus prevented from meeting under the relative representative Kjell Engretsen's leave from 27 May to 30 May and Anneliese Dørum's leave from 31 May to 1 June. Third alternate of Akershus County, Anita Orlund, is currently abroad and is thus prevented from meeting under the leave of the representative Kjell Engretsen on 31 May. From the first alternate of the State of Oppland, Kjell Ivar Fossnes, there is an application to be released from the presence of the representative Berit Brørby on 27 and 28 May, for reasons of well-being. The President proposes that the application be examined immediately and accepted. - It's a note. The president proposed that the following alternates be convened to meet during the term of leave: For Akershus County: Rikke Lind, Åge Tovan and Lars Rovik Odegård For Buskerud County: Frank Willy Larsen and Gerd Johnsen For Uppland County: Gry Larsen and Fredrik Färber For the Westfold province: Step Gjersøe The President sees this as a confirmation. The president suggests that Frank Willy Larsen, Gerd Johnsen, Anders Anundsen and Trine Gjersøe are elected to the Lagation for the time they meet for the respective representatives of Kirsti Kolle Grondahl, Erik Dalheim, Per Ove Width and Ann Helen Rui – and also see what is agreed. Gerd Johnsen, Gry Larsen and Anders Anundsen are here to sit.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e200	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Twist Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be a possibility of changing lines of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each group, and five lines with replies from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The President sees this as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e211	Women today are not either red stockings or buckthorns. There has been a new Swedish feminist debate, which has also received attention in Norway. Although many of us may have problems with the naming of the new Swedish feminist movement, and certainly with some of its content, the Christian People's Party would like to welcome all constructive debates on egalitarianism and human rights. The special feature of my generation of women is scarcity of time, that's our biggest problem. Many of us often ask the question, Have we achieved full equality? A lot has happened in a short time. But when I hear many today claim that equality has come to be, that the fight is won, I get very worried. For well, a lot has happened in a short time that has improved women's condition in Norway over two or three generations, and partly in the rest of the world, but there is a fragile equality we're talking about. The worst thing that can happen is that we – young women and men – settle down on the fact that now everything is fine. Indifference and satisfaction are the greatest threat to equality in our time. The trend in the development of the form of oppression of women has gone from direct and visible to indirect and invisible repression. This has been referred to by the Equality Ombudsman in many cases. I am pleased to stress to the Council of State that the starting point for the women's movement was the fight for democratic rights. The Council of State also underlines something else that is important: equality is a question of value that needs to be put into a human rights and human dignity perspective. Equality is more than individual interests and a struggle for interest. Equality is also about women's and men's values being equivalent, and it must be part of our value base. I am pleased that the Council of State points out that the lives of women and men are different, and women and men have traditionally communicated different values and attitudes. Let me refer to Monica Rudberg, a well-known professor, educator and woman researcher: "We need to be careful to create another image of women, a new norm on how women should be. Which makes a few people feel like successful women in time while others feel that they are falling completely out. A woman's life consists of many personal and parallel stories, depending on background, environment and personality». I think Rudberg's into something essential in his little warning. There are particularly four issues in the statement that I will stop at: kindergarten policy, division of labour in the home, independent rights for fathers and equal pay. While the single and two-year-old families are entitled to cash support, the nursery provision is still a limited benefit. The Christian People's Party believes it is important and positive that the Council of State so clearly states that it is a prerequisite for the Government to build kindergartens so that those who want it will be offered it. Women's history is clear that it is women who will lose if we do not have a well-developed and relatively reasonable childcare facility next to the offer of cash support. Traditions and average women's wages are enough to demonstrate that probability. I think the Council of State is right in that we are in danger of undermining our own family policy if the kindergarten offer does not become a real choice for the families of young children. My other important point is work sharing in the world. According to the most recent figures, from 1997 onwards, full-time women with full-time working men still use approx. twice as much time as his men in housework for a week. No matter how you look at this, we have to be able to establish that this wears on women in the long term. This is also part of a fundamental value debate. But it is obvious that in this field, something different is often expected from men. I quote from the Swedish debate book: «I tried not to think about the children, but those who interviewed me were on me all the time: «Don't you tell your children? Don't you?' Finally, the tears came. Nobody asked five-childed father Roger if he was missing his children." I think a lot of women recognize themselves in this quote. Why is it that men do not receive questions about children as often as they do when they are working? The fathers show an increased commitment to taking care of the children, and that's positive. Many fathers do not have the right to birth grant, and self-right to birth grant will be an important measure to make more fathers more at home. The evaluation of the parental quota shows that when father is home with maternity leave, the motivation to participate more at home later on increases. Women still serve worse than men, and typically women-dominated professions are paid less than men-dominated professions. This is a big challenge to get done more.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e251	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e254	I think the representative of the Christian People's Party had an interesting post in relation to the kindergarten. It was very positive verbally. But what I demand in the equality debate is action from the Government, not words, for that's enough of it. The time of good order is over, now is the action to be taken. And then my question is to the representative of the Christian People's Party: when it is that we have 4,000 queues for a nursery place in Oslo, when it is that kindergarten prices, the parental payment to the kindergartens, have increased more than the price increase, so that parents have difficulties with the parental payment and thus choose not to use kindergarten – how can the representative of the Christian People's Party say that they are betting on kindergarten? We see that they have a figure of 2,500 in the 1999 budget, and they're not going to do anything to make the parental payment in kindergartens lower. What is the bet on kindergarten – is there anything more than words, is there anything in practice?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e261	Yes, the Christian People's Party has more than words when it comes to bet on kindergartens. It is a very important equality policy tool to have a sufficient number of childcare facilities. That is why we have said that this challenge is also a serious one. There are children waiting in line for kindergarten today, yes. At the same time, the Government is working offensively. There is now a separate nursery message being prepared, which comes to the Stortinget in the autumn, where one goes into many of these issues in depth. In relation to the scale for the construction of kindergartens, we know that there is a positive development – I also reported that the Labour Party sent out a positive press release; they had now registered that there were many new ones who had applied for the construction of kindergartens to provide more kindergartens. It is important that we also have eyes open when it relates to the prices in kindergartens – it has been a price increase there. The Minister for Children and Family Affairs has stated that she will also include this challenge in the pediatric message that comes. But the government has shown that there are more than words. We insist that we want a good babysitting service, and we show that at different conditions we stand for it. So there's some people with the Worker's Party, that those who want to get kindergarten should get it. We want to work actively to build up enough kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e270	The representative of the Molvær Grimstad is busy with the scarcity of time. The report also said something about equality with children and young people. We are all aware that there are bad fathers and there are bad mothers. We know there are fathers who will not take responsibility for their children. But the ingenuity of some men should preferably not make all women excellent. Is it such that the excellence of some women makes all men invincible? I personally believe that all people should be treated individually. A well-established rule of law is that it is better to release ten guilty persons than to judge one innocent person. Unfortunately, this principle does not apply to all men who want to take responsibility for their own children. It may seem that in some people — or perhaps in many people — there is a kind of natural legality in that most men do not engage in the desire to take responsibility for their children. We also have a child law that states that we operate with a primary parent and a secondary parent. The undersigned has made a proposal in Stortinget on this issue, which will be dealt with in the autumn. I wonder if the representative Molvær Grimstad and the Christian People's Party will also include this assessment in relation to equality when we are going to deal with that question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e281	It is not that one can happen to all women and all men over one comb – women are different, and there are also men. So this isn't about «female excellence». However, the debate on gender equality is important in order to find out how much it means — how important it is — to have the most women and men represented in different forums. One can focus on a number of care professions where a person has too few men, and it is actually a positive discrimination that the Government has proposed when applying for jobs that involve care and child education, in order to get more men into them. But what the representative Sandberg said here, there are men who want to take a greater responsibility for the children, but who don't get it, it's a challenge. How can we make sure that the children who experience a divorce get the best possible contact with both father and mother? The batch of progress has submitted different Document No. 8 proposals, which I can't go into here, but which we're going to deal with in the committee. But I know that the Department is dealing with some of these things in relation to the rules of contributions, which are also where there is a divorce, and it's going to be stimulating and stimulating a better relationship, and not as it is today, that if there's not so much sharing of the company, it's almost a premium. There are many things you can grasp here, and there is a need for a proper discussion and review of how these rules that we have today work in relation to children's association with both parents. This debate is to be taken with us, but I can conclude here and now that we are in favour of what the Progress Party is in favour of. But that we need a debate on that in order to go through this, I agree with the Sandberg representative.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e292	I'll give the representative May-Helen Molvær Grimstad praise for an interesting post. She was among others. a. within this with fathers' seaworthy rights to maternity leave, and it has very many times promised the Christian People's Party that they will go in for it. And if the Workers' Party keeps the promise that they have also made about the same thing, there is actually a majority in this Chamber to give fathers maritime rights, which the Minister for Gender Equality quite rightly said was an important contribution for fathers to take more responsibility and show more care for their children. But then I wonder if this is a longer term goal. How long are we going to wait for fathers to be able to obtain maritime rights to maternity leave? That's the one question I had. The second is that the representative was concerned with this with a lack of time and a lack of work sharing in the world, i.e. a lack of sharing of the wages and unpaid work. It is clear that this is about women and men initially not having equal pay, and it is also about women working part-time – 46 pst. of women working part-time, i.e. they have taken the 6-hour day, but have paid for the sea. So, based on women's everyday lives and what can promote women's participation and equality, you have to do something about working hours, even out of work. Then SV has proposed the 6-hour day several times as a strategy. It may be a bit difficult to swallow for the Christian People's Party in the first place, like in one Jaf, but a trial project had to be the way to see if this is a lurking strategy. Will the Christian People's Party support the fact that there will be more trial projects for the 6-hour day?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e303	The representative, Ågot Valle, knows that I can't tell when we get a pass on independent dishes to fathers, but there's something that we're very concerned about and that we're working on, and that's also part of the Grown-Up Declaration, where it says that in the long run, fathers should be given independent dishes. This is important in relation to child care, because one then comes in and gets more responsibility for the children before, and it seems positive. – So in that work, we're on, but I can promise here and now when it comes. This work time and 6-hours day is a rather cost-intensive project that I don't think we want to afford. But I think it's a lot we can affect relative to women and equal pay. The Minister for Children and Family Affairs stated that she would propose that equal pay rules be clarified in the equal opportunities law. But I also think that the most important equality fight for many people might actually be in the world. I have read more interviews with people who have had leadership positions, and who feel that being a double-working woman, as they have been, has been so tough that it is in a way making it extra demanding for women to go to top management settings, to seek responsible jobs. Many of them feel that they are double-working and therefore have less energy for such settings. So I think that the debate that is going on in the thousands of homes around Norway about equality can be one of the most important things to allow women to be economically active and to have leadership positions. In addition, there are many challenges that remain in relation to equal pay in general that I don't think are easy to do in a hand-over, but as one has to work hard on in the future to get what is better than what it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e314	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e318	The Minister for Gender Equality and the Minister for Family Affairs was a very good description of the history that pointed out in many important areas, but it contained few concrete proposals. I think, unfortunately, that equality will not move significantly as a result of central government policy so far. If equality is to go on, we need concrete action and not words. Experiences from decades of gender equality have shown us this. Equality is not just a question of values for which each of us is responsible. Equality is a policy that requires politicians who want and dare to promote concrete action. Why is today's debate so important? Haven't we come very far here in the field of equality, and aren't we among the world's most equal countries? I can only answer that we still have a long way to go, because we are actually experiencing some setbacks in equality today. The newspaper last Saturday had a look that showed that the pay gap between women and men is increasing again, after several years of convergence. Increasing numbers of women are low-paid, and female-dominated professions are showing ever weaker wage growth, despite 70 pst. of women aged 25 to 60 currently active. That is, they represent 46 pst. of the employed – almost half. Figures based on data from the tax return for the years 1993 to 1997 show that the average gross income of men increased by around NOK 20 000 more than the gross income of women during the five-year period. Sees a whole labour market as a whole, women's average hourly earnings were about 80 pst. of men in 1996. Five years earlier, the proportion was 1 pst. higher. So we see clear signs that the pendulum is reversing. Several studies have concluded that the level of pay is the lowest where the highest proportion of women is found, while the pay is clearly higher in the most common occupations, such as: in electrochemical and graphic industries. Statistics from the Central Bureau show that in 1996 there were more than 1.3 million women, i.e. 75 pst. of the women who earned less than NOK 188 000. In comparison, half of the men earned over $205,000. The difference between women and men therefore appears to increase, and the labour market shows signs of increasing gender divide. The reasons for this can, of course, be many, but researchers point out that women and men start their professional careers with different positions, which favor men. The fact that men also still have an overwhelming share of management positions also leads to inequalities. Specific measures are required here. VG has recently demonstrated, through several reports, that women are almost absent from management and management positions for enterprises in Norway. This has shown us that equality has not gone through in private business. It is probably more than I am provoked by what we have been able to read. Ensuring equality in business will be the main challenge we face in the coming years. Some have tried to explain the lack of female board members that there are no qualified women to put in. This may be true in some cases, but not as a general explanation. In fact, this argument is similar to the one used when quotas were introduced in public samples, political electoral lists, etc. Also then it was claimed that it would be difficult to find capable women, and that women would not take on such jobs. Today we know they were wrong. We see that women today take more education and actually get average better grades than men. The formal qualifications of women should therefore not be hindered. What's a good leader, there's a lot of different definitions. But I dare say that women are at least as competent as men. We have some female top managers today, and they're doing a very good job. Women have characteristics that men do not have – and vice versa. Women and men are different and complement each other. It's amazing that business itself has not seen this. I think it's about drying to give women the opportunity and trust to be leaders on their own premises. Osmund Ueland is a top leader who has tort to bet on female leaders in the NSB and in the NSB Gardermoban. And I wanted more people to be as brave as he's been. Behind the quota rules introduced in the 1970s was a recognition that men cannot represent women, and vice versa, because we are different. Let me therefore immediately state the following: It is equally important that there are women in the boards of Kværner, Orkla, Statoil and other large corporations, as it is that women are represented in local government, county councils, magnificence and public authorities. Norwegian business has a major influence on the development of Norwegian society. And when Kværner loses 30,000 jobs, it matters both to the individual, to the local environment and to the Norwegian economy. The business environment also affects housing and infrastructure through its location of activities. And it's the government that employs leaders. Therefore, there can be no doubt that it is right that women — half of Norway’s population — should be represented where important decisions are made. I think there are several instruments that need to be used. In the case of governance representation, different forms of legislative proposal need to be considered. Regulatory authorities for public enterprises must be legally guaranteed 40 pst. representation of women. For governments in private companies, we also need to find ways to ensure women's representation. Our neighbouring countries Sweden and Finland have both legislated this in different ways. In order to increase the recruitment of women leaders, one instrument may be that the Equality Act imposes on all enterprises of a certain size to have their own equality plans. The Norwegian Hydro Group Action Plan for Gender Equality is a good example of the importance of such plans. Hydro's plan has concrete targets for recruiting women for leadership positions. I think that Norsk Hydro's work is an example of follow-up if you want to bet on women. But we probably also need to change the demands and content of leadership jobs. We all saw Kværner-chef Kjell Almskog's statement in an interview recently: "The one who leaves early in the job to follow the boy at football training has nothing to do in my company." Then it might not be so strange that Kværner has few female leaders. I am absolutely sure that those who have such attitudes will not get the best leaders. I don't think it will be possible to find men in the future who will work in such a way. The time has passed when top managers could work and travel around the clock, while the woman was at home and was a ground crew. Today's young girls demand that the husband also take his share of responsibility at home. At home, therefore, equality is an important prerequisite for equal opportunities in employment. Studies in this area show that distribution remains uneven at home. Divorce statistics show that women take the initiative at 70 pst. of all the infringements of life. As a reason, most people say that the husband did not take enough responsibility for the home and the child. Politicians cannot decide that men should take more responsibility at home; this is a struggle each of us must take. However, employers can be influenced by attitudes, demands for labour input and flexible working time arrangements. And the state must go ahead with a good example. Equality is not about women demanding and getting more at the expense of men. In some areas, it's actually going to be the opposite. Today, the female’s employment rate still determines her husband’s ability to be at home with a child. Valgerd Svarstad Haugland writes in VG May 11 that she believes that men must have their own rights in this area, but we do not know when. I would therefore like to ask when she intends to promote this as a concrete proposal. I have to say that it has surprised me how little men have been on the road to ensure their own rights to living with children in the event of a breakup. In this area, too, I believe that we need a new review of today's legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e370	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e373	I thought that Karita Bekkemelm Orheim here was very important in his post. A lot of what she was into was also the Minister for Children and Family Affairs in his statement. The working party has done a lot of good in relation to gender equality in Norway. I'm actually going to give it credit for that. Karita Bekkemelm Orheim stated after the announcement that she thought that the Minister for Children and Family tried to be modern, that she was a little old-fashioned. So I was wondering if the Workers' Party would offer a new course with them on equality. But what Karita Bekkemelm Orheim here mentions in his speech is much of what the Minister for Children and Family addressed in his statement. There were also some concrete challenges that the Minister addressed in the distribution. This is the case with a review and a revision of equality laws, where one will take up and take initiatives in relation to the prohibition of sexual harassment and the possibility of compensation when one has been exposed to gender discrimination. This also applies to special treatment for men in the occupation of education and care of children. In fact, the government has taken an action in which a encourages men to search for settings that are very women-dominated. So if the Labour Party reads the distribution with a little bit of a positive eye, they'll see that here's a real commitment from the Government when it comes to equality, and that we and the Labour Party and some other party might be able to be some about some challenges and also some measures. I actually believe that when we look back, there are many areas that have had to do with equality, where the Christian People's Party has cooperated with the Labour Party. We have disagreements about cash support, but I believe there are many other areas in which we can be a few.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e384	First, I want to say that equality is probably an eternal project, and until today equality has been about improving women's position and position in society. We also know that the Labour Party with Gro Harlem Brundtland at the head made gender equality policies visible and realized at a high political level, and that it has meant a great deal to the young women who have come into politics after her. Of course, the focus of gender equality policy will shift as we live, and because I believe that the Christian People's Party has tried to become much more modern in its approach to gender equality policy issues, I called for some concrete actions from the Council of State. That's why I think there's reason to ask the question back again: what does the Christian People's Party want to do when it comes to e.g. Father's rights? We all agree today that Dad is going to take out four weeks' maternity leave, that he is going to have his own father's rights. But what do we do about a breakup? Are we then mature to give Father the same responsibility that we want to give him when we live with him? After the breakup, we stand steep on our own selfish desires. And there I want to challenge the Christian People's Party – are they today mature to take that debate and give Father responsibility for and participation in his children's lives after a break in life? I would also like to say that I agreed with much of what the Council said in its statement. But now it's the Christian People's Party that's come into position and that's going to be the ones who are practicing political action, and then it's not just good to talk. We are calling for concrete action, as the Christian People's Party was so good at when the Workers' Party was put in government position. But I want us to have a constructive dialogue on these issues, because I think the political system in Norway will serve that purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e393	The representative, Bekkemelm Orheim, had an interesting post. It was a good record of all the things that have been in the newspapers lately, and a description of a reality in the workplace that we all have to see that it is. But at the same time, I see this lack of equality in the workplace, among others. a. as a result of the Labour Party's equality policy over the last ten years, so the representative gave a good description of the Labour Party's policy, and we appreciate that. Otherwise, the representative continued this post by expressing traditional labour party policy, where she focuses only on women in leadership positions. The representative draws Gro Harlem Brundtland as a good example. Yes, Gro Harlem Brundtland did a great job getting women in leadership positions, but what the Workers' Party seems to forget all the way is that equality, like everything else, must be built from the ground up. The Labour Party has never shown fundamental respect for what has traditionally been the work of the woman, and unless we can get proper respect for what is women's and women's tasks, we never get a fundamental, profound equality. When will the Labour Party address this problem within its own party, that basic, women-dominated areas should be treated in a non-discriminatory and equivalent way to that of the male domain? Only then can we get real equality at all levels. When will the Workers' Party upgrade care?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e402	It is quite interesting to listen to Inger Stolt-Nielsen’s approach in such a debate – that the fact that we have no longer come into Norwegian equality policy today is the result of the Labour Party’s policy. It is possible, but at the same time I think that we should also get some of the credit because we have come a bit on the way. I would like to ask Stolt-Nielsen: what is the Right answer to ‘built from the ground’ and that we should have gone further in equality policy than we have done? And I also want to ask, what does Pride-Nielsen think is women's task today? What the Workers' Party has taken seriously is that women want to go out to work while taking responsibility for their homes and houses. That is the combination that the Workers' Party has wanted to meet in what we have done in child and family policies. When it comes to concrete measures, I would like to ask the Right: Is it so that the Right e.g. Would you like to use the law to get a greater share of women in our boardrooms, and to oblige Norwegian businesses to have activity plans in line with what they have in Sweden and Finland? What Stolt-Nielsen does is that she only describes the situation and hacks at the Workers' Party without making any concrete input. It is well possible that the Workers' Party has not done enough in this matter, but we are at least willing to put forward concrete measures, for which we have a long tradition.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e411	I think Karita Bekkemelm Orheim made a lot of constructive suggestions, especially when it comes to getting more women leaders into the business world. There she and the Workers' Party will receive full support from SV, not least because being a leader is also a good thing, which must be shared between women and men. I will come back to maritime rights for fathers, because Karita Bekkemelm Orheim called for proposals from Valgerd Svarstad Haugland. But then I want to ask for proposals from the Workers' Party, because on the day the Workers' Party makes a proposal, I think it's going to be a lot more than that in order for the Christian People's Party to be able to oppose it. We've suggested this several times, so there will be a majority in favour of a proposal to ensure maritime rights for fathers. So Karita Bekkelem Orheim was in on the women's wages, which now goes in reverse. Yes, it's a very serious problem that we really need to look at from multiple sides. Will it not be time to be able to look at measures like monks — through an equal pay commission that could look at and tackle the problem from many sides and make a proposal? «Member States must go ahead» said Karita Bekkemelm Orheim. That's absolutely right. The State must also take the lead in its employer policy. We have several times proposed a women's pay pot that the social partners can negotiate, but that will go directly to raise women's wages in the state sector, so that the state can go ahead. Will the Workers' Party look at this with new eyes, and see if it could not be a good proposal to support, a women's pay pot that the parties can negotiate?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e422	As far as the independent rights of fathers are concerned, I believe that all parties are gradually seeing that we should try to get it settled. It's not that long since the Workers' Party got it into their program. Unlike SV, we have not had so much money to spend on the annual government budgets, but it is clear that there is one thing we want to give priority to. We also need to look at that aspect of what is happening in other areas of child and family policy. It is quite clear that the time is overdue, and if the Government finds a budgetary impact on it, the Workers' Party will be able to support it properly. So a little bit about the equal pay problem. It's clear that because of what's happening, especially in the women's dominated professions, we should have gotten a lift here. But the dilemma for us is that this is a matter between the social partners, and here we also need a government council, an administrative minister, who will address this in an offensive way. But I also think there's reason to throw the ball a little bit over to the LO, to the trade unions, to the NHO and to the municipalities of the country, so that one has to focus on getting a lift in this field in a completely different way than what we've seen now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e429	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e432	I will first be allowed to praise the representative, Mr Stolt-Nielsen, for a very constructive line of good content. I share everything that was said. From different quarters, this statement has been referred to differently, and the conclusions of most have been that it was inconclusive and hypovolaemic. I just have to share that vision. One might think that such a comprehensive presentation as the one presented might contain something new in relation to the equality theme. But no, I find no revolutionary, new things in the statement. The content is for me only a repetition of measures that have existed for 20 years, and from my point of view it is important in relation to the problem of total absence. I believe that the introduction to the statement tells me about the rest and the entire content. ‘Women’s lives have undergone major changes over the past 30 years. The post-war period has brought about major changes in society.’ It was a bit of a conclusion as an introduction to a statement on gender equality policy in development! Of course, the world has changed in the last 30 years. For men, too, there have been changes, for the young have been changes, for the elderly have been changes. The whole community has changed. Further in the same introduction we get more examples of gender equality developments for women. First on page 3, we find something that goes in the direction of a vague thought that equality also includes man. «The government believes that the women's profile in the law» – i.e. equality law – «must stand firm, but will stress that the promise can also be used for the benefit of men». So we can use the gender equality law, but it shouldn't be used. That's how I understand it. State councils also spend some time on quotaing. And what the Council of State here says is a further use of this instrument, regardless of the fact that also the female director of the NHO, Marit Wiig, determines that quotaing is being imposed, that this is becoming more whipping than carrot, and that social researcher Mari Tegen from the Institute of Social Research believes that gender quotas have become a sleeping rule. Furthermore, is it that Norway, which is perhaps the most sovereign country in the world in focusing on gender equality, sovereign in terms of the use of resources targeted at the same, is it sovereignly best when it comes to the results of the equality struggle? Here I just want to answer by referring to a look-up in the VG on May 12th this year. The title is "We're late". Furthermore, it is stated: ‘The myth that we are world champions in equality strikes cracks.’...‘Norway is far behind countries such as the United States, Canada, Australia and the United Kingdom. Of seven countries, only Japan is worse than Norway, according to an international survey.... ‘Other studies show that we are also behind France, also somewhat after Finland and Sweden.’ The answer given by the Council of State in this connection in the same article is that it is not as common to combine careers and family life with children as with us. At the same time, she signals that she wants to look at the Workers' Party's proposal for a 'law order' of 8 p.m. share of women in corporate governance. That's the answer. Finally, here, the Council of State is considering using whips to get women into the governments of business, while at the same time stating that it is not common to combine children and careers. Governments are also concerned with equality towards children and young people, and she says: ‘Even though boys and girls today have equal rights and opportunities in most areas,’ – here I just want to ask the question: Where is it that they don’t have ‘like rights and opportunities’? – ‘there are gender differences in the choice of education, profession and participation in recreational activities’.» Yes, of course. But unlike the Council of State, I think this is positive. It simply confirms that our young people still have the ability and the ability to influence their own future, a future without whip and political governance to create a society with diversity and positive visions of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e485	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e489	Sometimes it might be tempting not to take any lines, but I think it was so much unclear in what the representative Sandberg says, that he will certainly have the opportunity to clarify the ambiguities he himself made from the pulpit. It is now that gender equality is not only measured in the number of women in politics or in the number of women in private business governance, although it is important for both sexes to have experience. However, it is also measured in what services are offered for women and men to have freedom of choice, for example. to go to work. What I think was interesting about Sandberg's posts was that he fully shared Inger Stolt-Nielsen's analysis. And then I have to ask, as it was asked to the representative Stolt-Nielsen: what, in the opinion of the representative Sandberg, is women's task? What are we going to do? And will he in no way facilitate in society that women and men will have a freer choice to do what they want? What we see is that women choose education, in fact, more than boys in higher education. They choose to work, they choose to have children – and they choose it at the same time. So society has to do something so that the choices don't stop by not making the practical things right. The progress is here exponent that the free choice should be completely free, without any tools. In fact, this is not the way the world is. We're helping business. Why can't we then help women and men to have some free choice?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e500	The representative Fossum concludes with: We help business, why can't we help women and men? That's part of what was the point of my post, and what's supposed to be about the gender equality work, which the Workers' Party has done, and which also Inger Stolt-Nielsen had in mind. But the Workers' Party is conducting a gender equality fight. They have done so for a long time, and they have achieved results: the result is that we are on the rankings for gender equality below all the countries we compare with. When it comes to the problem of freedom of choice – and I actually share the view of Mr. Bekkelem Orheim – I believe that we are on the right track at least by the fact that women now have to let go of what is called care, and let men get away with it. That's the greatest and best grip we can do in relation to equality. In relation to helping women and men, I would like to show you where the help is. I've been on the Internet – I've been on the clock. 2 to-night and easy to find something in the form of gender equality. I didn't find anything. But I found multiple thousand pages that were about equality directed at women. I just want to point out one example: it is a 15-page EU application form for gender equality projects aimed at women – 15 pages in one application form. All the areas I came into were focused on equality with women. I also want to refer to the lodge. It reflects the interest in equality. Here are two men in 15 people. I also want to take up the composition of the Ministry of Children and Family, but I will wait for that, because I will take a reply to the Council of State later today, to get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e511	It is good that a advertiser announces his later posts. That's what the president says.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e514	The representative Per Sandberg refers to quotaing as the use of ‘pisk’ and quotes slightly from the Council of State’s allocation in relation to quotaing. In the context that we have had quotaing in politics, we can actually see positive results. I'm going to go back a little bit: when I started in the Youth of the Christian People's Party at the age of 15, I was actually against the use of quotas. Women were supposed to come out on their own, and I was totally against the fact that one was going to quota the one gender-based role of the gender. But I'm changing my point of view -- it's not every day that we here from Stortingen's pulpit admits that we're changing our position. As I was involved in politics, I saw how important it was that both women and men were represented, and the value of both sexes being involved, because one has different qualifications, often different views and different approaches. That's why it's important for both women and men to be involved. I want to say that the decisions often get better when both sexes are represented. So when I look at the Progress Group, two out of twenty-five women. The rest are men. I think it would be pretty neat here in the staging room if it had been the average female part. I also think there could be some tame debates in relation to gender equality. Does the representative Sandberg not see how important it is that we get a better representation in all areas of society? The representative Sandberg calls for equality for men. I thought it was great and brilliant that men engaged in equality, because the equality debate is not just a debate for women. It is important that men also be present, even if it has been in the field of women, that equality has been most neglected. Therefore, quotaing in relation to policy can be a positive contribution to getting more women represented.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e525	I'm really happy to get this line, and I noticed in this with how boring it had become without female representatives on the Stortinget. I can at least sign that without the representative Fossum having been in the hall, it had become boring to me, for at least there is something that creates temperature once in a while. But for this with quota: yes, it has existed for a while, and there are results gradually showing that this has been useless. I am also pleased that I got the reply in relation to the fact that there is a look-up in a newspaper today that reflects on the conditions. Throughout the country, all the parties have now struggled to get women on their list. In fact, it has gone so far that in the Nord-Trøndelag, RV can't even meet the 40 pst requirement, because the women who have been forced into quota at previous elections don't want it anymore, and that's the result. I can also refer to several parties in the same state – and several states – that experience the same thing. They can't recruit women. Although they've had a higher representation of women in government and care in the past, they can't get these women to be on board, because they've just been quotad. They didn't want to be there, and this is the result. We in the Progress Party have a lot more faith that it will go its natural course, through what the representative Beckællem Orheim was about, that women are now coming on the track more and more through higher education. It won't surprise me if they in 20 new years are overrepresented in all places, and I think that might be positive – of course. But we have to let it go, and we do it in the Progress Party. Now we have two female wholesale representatives, but I look forward to the next elections, and in 2005 or 2009, things may have changed. But we'll at least let it go without using the whip.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e532	I almost don't know what to say that the Progress Party agrees with the Right. I think it is rather worrying – I understand that I almost got misunderstood. But this was a line I had, and a row didn't say so awfully much in a line. It was probably the representatives of the Progress Party that passed that I praised the Workers' Party for the efforts they have made to bring women into the top level of politics. What I wanted was women on the plane so that it can grow from the bottom to the top, that recruitment to leadership positions becomes natural because a miracle has a wide range of choices to choose from. Moreover, I think that there are quite significant differences between the view of women of the Right and the perspective of the Advancement Party, because the Right is not satisfied with a system that makes women excluded because they are women, and that is what the policy of the Advancement Party in practice turns out to be. When Sandberg refers to, among others: a. Schoolwork and leisure organisations, that this should be the way it is, and you should not care about this, I have to ask the representative Sandberg a question: does he not think, for example. is it worrying that Norway is at the bottom of the Nordic context in terms of girls’ knowledge of data? Shouldn't something be done specifically to increase girls' competence on the basic level so that they can compete on an equal footing with the boys? Because it's like it's in the little things on the basic plane that the premises are made for what's going to be the adult equality perspective, and there's no doubt that girls who come in the backyard with boys, because there's been a tradition of prioritising boys. [[The President clubs.]] Will the Progress Party also take initiatives at its local level to improve the ability of girls to become equal adults?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e539	The President must make the representative aware that the speaking time for a line change is 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e542	When I gave my support to the content of the Pride-Nielsen's line to the Workers' Party, it was simply in relation to our agreement, I understood that the Workers' Party has lowered its priority in relation to equality. That was the content of the line. That the Progress Party in any area operates and excludes women – I don't know where the representative Stolt-Nielsen got it from. In the Progress Party, all women are welcome, and we have democratic elections with regard to governments, etc. on the same line as all the others. But we don't have an unwritten rule that women should have the right of priority to rule and care because they belong to a particular sex, as the Right has. That we should have a different view of women than the Right – I do not know where the representative Stolt-Nielsen got it from. I think most men in the Advance Party have the same woman's vision as men in the Right, and perhaps even have a woman's vision that means that a respected woman more than Right does. The representative also points out that in my article I refer in some way to the school leisure system. I did not use the school vacation scheme at all in my post. Furthermore, it is asked whether the Progress Party wishes to promote measures to give women an extra puff to study computer. In the State Council statement, it is clearly stated that children and young people have equal rights, equal opportunities and can choose for themselves. We take note of that in the Progress Party. Children and young people must be allowed to choose their own future based on their own needs and their own visions of the future, without having to sit politicians from the Right and the Left Party and decide what kind of choices these different young people are going to make. Because if that happens, I don't think any of the kids that Right will help, will have a nice future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e549	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e552	The Minister for Gender Equality and the Minister for Family Affairs gives a clear review of the main challenges in the field of gender equality today. I find it interesting to note that the gender equality struggle in 1999 is not dominated by a direction, grouping or ideology, but that women and men with different positions, different attitudes and different ages have opinions and input into the gender equality debate. Right-wing welcome this diversity and welcome the fact that the gender equality debate reflects the different attitudes and values that otherwise characterise the societal debate. I agree with the Minister for Children and Family Affairs that equality is more a matter of values than of fighting interests. For the right, the starting point is right -- all people are equivalent, not equal. That means that we also have to accept that individuals have different needs in different phases of life. This recognition is part of the basis for a modern family policy to focus on families having different desires and needs. The role of the state is to stimulate the best possible tailoring of its solutions in a busy everyday life. For this reason, of course, it is totally wrong to claim that the cash support is a setback for the equality. Cash support in combination with kindergartens is an answer to the demand of many busy families with children for a long time, about the possibility of choosing which solutions are best suited to the family. The challenge for us men is, of course, to take advantage of the possibility of the cash support reform. The possibility of being more together with young children must not only be measured in relation to economic parameters, but must be seen as an opportunity to participate in some of the finest and most valuable things that exist — children’s development and growth. The father rate has been positive and is used by more and more men. I hope it's not here as it is in northern Sweden, as a study now showed, that a great excess of men took out the feather quota in connection with the elbow. I get hope it's a little better here in the country. It is also positive that the Government is now signaling a positive attitude that fathers should be given the independent right to earn birth money. But, like several other speakers, I have to ask the Minister for Children's and Family Affairs about when this is going to happen. The same wording used in the statement is set out in the Declaration of Adults – that this right can be introduced in the long term. It was two years ago, and now it's «on sight» again. Then we'll see how long it'll take. I'm not happy with the concept of the human role, because the term implies that the man should be pushed into a special role. The whole point is that men, like women, have different needs and interests. However, it is important to stimulate the participation of men in the debate on gender equality and not to put ourselves on the sideline as passive spectators. You don't change attitudes overnight, but there's been a change of attitude. Fathers' participation in care for their own children has increased, although there is probably still much that could have been better. In many areas, there are still major challenges. One of the areas where women continue to experience discrimination is the issue of equal pay for equal work. Several studies indicate that men continue to receive higher pay for the same work. This has to be changed. Women today take more and more education than men, but still experience lower wages. Recruitment of women to positions of leadership is an important area, but I have little faith in quotas and regulation. I have more faith that relationships are facilitated for women to volunteer for leadership positions. We see that opportunities to meet everyday challenges are important to many young children’s mothers. Enterprises that organise kindergartens and other social arrangements that make everyday life easier are on track. Gender equality policy is not one of the most attention given to policies. Even I have the background as chairman of the administrative committee in the Dramam, a selection that is also equal opportunities. It has struck me how rare equality policy as such is on the agenda. On the other hand, staff policy is an entirely different interest, not least from the employees. I take it as an expression that good human resources policy is also good gender equality policy. Practical arrangements for employees mean a lot to well-being, which in turn creates opportunities to take on larger jobs. Of course, this applies to both men and women. But when you look at who is now employed in the municipalities, it should be obvious that women will increasingly fill leadership positions. Here I would like to give a small example: the councillor in Drammen has regular information meetings with new employees in the municipality. The last time this meeting was held, it was approx. 100 new employees. Of these, almost 90 were women and 80 of them had higher education. The gender policy statement provides a good starting point for the further debate on equality policy. I don't think there's much more to legislation. I have more faith in attitudes and incentives, while accepting that men and women have different needs, demands and desires in the job situation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e573	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e577	We may have to admit that in some areas we are not as good at equality as we would like. We take equality for granted in Norway in many ways, but we see that in our neighbouring countries, such as the United Kingdom, the United States, France and Germany, women have reached far beyond what Norwegian women have done. I want to ask the right if they don't think it's suspicious that there is no more than 8 pst. women represented in the boards of some of the largest Norwegian companies. We can agree that volunteering is the best thing, but how long should we wait? This is simply not good enough, in the opinion of the Labour Party. Therefore, the Workers' Party believes that it must take action, if necessary through the form of the law, to correct the biases. Because it does not help to have an intellectual understanding of the problems if it turns out that when action is to be taken, conservative attitudes exist in the business world. Therefore, I would like to ask the Right if they will, if necessary, be in favour of a law – that all governments in public enterprises should have a 40 pst. women’s presentation and that the same changes must apply to the Share Act, so that private enterprises will also be in favour of such women’s representation. And what does the Right think about changes in the Equality Act, so that all companies are required to make action plans for gender equality? And finally, after hearing the representative Pride-Nielsen earlier today, what is the Right's view of what women's task is today? And what steps will the Right take to ‘grown from the bottom’ of, as Stolt-Nielsen had in the past?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e586	The representative of the Bekkelem Orheim is concerned about developments in Norway in relation to some other countries. I can share that concern. What is then a paradox is that several of the countries referred to by the Bekkemel Orheim do not have the kind of legal regulation that the Workers' Party is asking for. That's why I don't think legal regulation when it comes to the number of women in rule f. e.g. is the road to walk. I said a lot about it in my post, that it must be that women are encouraged, that they feel that they are valued when they enter leadership positions, that it is arranged so that they can participate fully, and that there are social arrangements that take care of this. This also applies to board work, because there are many of the same persons in management positions who are left in board work. Several female leaders mean more women in both public and private governance. When it comes to legislating women's representation in public administrations, I have to say that if there is someone who has the opportunity to implement the policy that the Government is putting forward, it's just public, especially in the state. The responsibility lies with the Council of State. There's a responsibility on the government to make sure that this representation gets better. There is something that Sonja Sjøli has addressed before in an interview, and about which there has been a debate. I hope now that we can go that way instead of going through legal regulation, because it does not help much to set allowances when the conditions have not been arranged otherwise. So what are women's tasks today -- that's so much, that. I think I gave a little bit of the answer in my post. There are many of the same tasks that both men and women have, but it is clear that women still have and still take greater responsibility for the home. There's what man's challenge is going on.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e595	First, I must give Trond Helleland honor. I think it's positive that he won't sit on the sidebar in the equality debate, but take an active part in it. Trond Helleland was concerned about the problem that there is still a lot left before we have equal pay. But I think we have to go much further than that. Given that women should be able to have a whole life equal to men, one must also look at what women have left after they have worked, compared to men. It is then that the inequality between women's and men's incomes is largely due to the fact that mainly men have large capital incomes. Few women have capital income. Then we have to look at the structures. Then, too, capital income is taxed much less than income. Now I don't expect the very great revolution from the Right, but isn't it possible to reflect around this from a gender perspective, that something has to be done in this area? Another area that Greece did not mention is: Where are women working? A lot of women work in the public sector, and their lives are hampered by how they are squandered in the public sector. There are a lot of statistics on how women in the public sector are pushed out of work because of disability. I also don't wait here for the very great revolution from the Right, but is it possible to reflect a little about what the size of the public sector and the transfers to the municipalities have to say for women's lives and women's right to equal participation with men?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e604	First I get to thank you for the honor Ågot Valle gives. I'm a little surprised when SV now launches the capital tax as the new gender policy instrument, namely that by getting a higher capital tax, one can exempt more men from some money, and then equality becomes more real. I have little faith in that. How capital and wealth are built is, of course, related to the background and job position, but I don't think the way is to go through the tax system to improve that distribution. Me and Right agree that, for example. care professionals must be re-evaluated on a pay basis. Our party leader has stated quite clearly that he felt this year it was the turn of the teachers to get a better paycheck, and the teaching profession is still strongly women dominated. I think it is also the priorities that are set by the social partners, which are important, and it is clear that, as politicians, we need to be involved and give signals: what is important? What should be prioritized? The right has given some answers. There is more that can be done, but at least I believe that the care professionals will gradually be given priority, precisely because there is so much demand that there will be a need for it. So the way to go is not through legal regulation. The way to go is through stimulation, and I also hope that SV will assess – there have been some indications – for example. cash support and some schemes adapted to families with children, in a slightly more positive way, although SV has taken a very negative line with regard to new measures to benefit both the family, women and men.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e615	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e618	Let it be clear – it is not done enough in this area, and there is no need to lie down on any laurel. In this respect, it is necessary to take account of a number of aspects, and the labour market is an important area for equality laws. We should be aware that after decades of words and measures for equality, it is directly discouraging that women still make up only 2 pst. by the members of the board of the listed companies. The fact that the percentage is tripled in small and medium-sized enterprises also gives no cause for rejoicing. It is difficult to imagine places where sexual favorisation will encounter stronger resistance than among the shareholders. Here, only high share prices, returns and competitiveness count. But the danger of the current well-used governance model is that it becomes one-sided composition when it comes to age, sex and background. At least it's not business. Elles sees a recent gender equality statistics from the University of Bergen as still poor when it comes to the relationship between sex and pay. To the higher on the payline one comes, to the fewer women there are. Over salary step 57, women make 11 pst. So there's a few female professors and leaders. There is reason to believe that this is not only true for Bergen. Elles sees a new Norwegian investigation, reported in the United Nations on 14 May, that only 24 pst. Of the self-employed in this country, women are included, and primary industries are also included. The study also shows that the companies that are run by women have only 7 pst. by private sector employment. In addition, the Class Struggle now says that in the selections to deal with future working time arrangements, LO, YS, AF and the Academics have served for a large majority of men. This selection should look at the conditions for all groups of employees according to their interests. This gives cause for reflection. Therefore, at the beginning of a new millennium, women may still be on the sidelines of Norwegian business. It may be right to include that women also have a share of responsibility for this. It is too easy to call for them not to be on the top level if they are not involved at the same time on the local and basic level first and show interest there. Governments were also involved in the paper issue. I mean something about equality, something has to be done here when only two thirds of fathers today take out paper school, because it's attached to their mother's dishes. And mother has usually had poorer wages, working part-time or living with other children. This needs to be changed so that fathers are given the independent right of withdrawal in connection with birth. Governments promised to make suggestions on this when I took it up in a question hour on February 4th last year. I hope it doesn't go too long before this happens. I noticed that the Equal Opportunities Office in the newspaper on 9 March last year said that more and more women lose the job when the employer discovers that they are pregnant. This applies most temporarily to the addition, but also to the permanent addition of experience of being neglected in promotions, or of having lost the provision of follow-up training when they have been pregnant. This is a clear break with the equality law. Increasing professional activity among women has in every way been a good thing for our society. I now expect the Council of State will do what it can to correct this misguided development. It is not necessary to treat incoming mothers as a problem. It's the other way around. 1999 is known to be the year of the district women. This is because so many districts have female emigration. This should actually be in everyone's interest, for neither will men live in the districts without the women – simply! If we consider that most communities in Bygde-Noreg now face increasing challenges of sustaining life and activity in the future, we need to recognise that this is also a full-scale gender equality policy challenge. In this respect, it is necessary to focus attention on women and men most, against those who make decisions in politics, administration, business and organisations, in order to obtain results.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e641	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e644	The center party was concerned about the girls' participation. One of the main instruments we have to stimulate stronger participation is statutory quotas. Int. O. No 59 for 1994-95, which relates to the previous revision of the Equality Act, the Centre Party concluded that quotaing does not have an effect — based on a report that came at the time, which was read slightly different from the lots. My question is whether that will also be the attitude of the Centre Party at the next revision of the Equality Act. At the same time, both the Central Party and the Christian People's Party were strongly opposed to the quotaing of men, and thought it was a serious weakening of the intention of the Equality Act when the Workers' Party and the Right got through it. Will there be changes in the views of the Centre Party on that question during this time's revision of the Equality Act, or do we have to expect a rematch this time too?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e651	I notice that Jon Olav Alstad is concerned about the participation of the girls, and I expect that there is a particular interest in participation in public administration, municipal administration, advice, county services, etc. I am aware that there has been a change in the past few years, and I believe that precisely the allocation has helped to bring about that effect. I also believe that this may be the case for men's allowances. I myself have our political activity for over 30 years, and that is quite a long time. I'm still thinking the first time I wanted to go to the nomination meeting, and the neighbor said, "No, there's no girls going." I didn't do it. After the visit, I went to go to go to go to go to go to go to Then there was a discussion about having more than one girl on the list of 29 names. If there were more, they could destroy each other – that’s right! They were so brave that they put up three women out of 29 names. So two of them joined the local government. This was in 1971, it's no longer since, so there's been a huge development, both because the time was ripe for it, and also later on because one has used allowances. I think that allowanceing both for men and women can be one way to do it when you don't get it otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e660	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e663	Gender equality must be included as part of the value debate, said the Council of State in its statement. Yeah, that's right. But for SV, women's liberation is an important prerequisite for equality. Something has to be done about the structures that create unequal access to power, resources and time, and the right to participate on their own premises in society. The goal must be to remove the oppression, and not just do something about the symptoms. In that perspective, the demand for more women leaders becomes an important requirement, but that is far from enough to eliminate that oppression. Here must be much more daring, and that daringness I did not find, unfortunately, in the statement of the Council of State. Through women's participation and the fight for equality in women's organisations, in trade unions and in political parties, we have won victories. We've already had formal equality. Today's lady has strength, demands the right to work, takes education, dominates colleges and universities and demands her right to participate in cultural life. Today's young lady takes equality for given, but frescoes when she finds out that that is not the case. The ‘Fitstim motion’ in Sweden is an expression that something is happening among the younger ones, the fight against slimming and beauty governance as well as the fight against stereotypes in advertising. We've won victories, but there's a lot left. Strong structures of power, in private life, in work, in research, in health, in education, in economics, need to be changed in order for women and men, boys and girls to have equal opportunities. The 1993 UN Conference on Human Rights in Vienna concluded that violence against women is one of the most crucial social mechanisms in forcing women into a subordinate position, compared to men. Violence keeps women in place, and is an attack on women's freedom, dignity and integrity. Women shall have the right to live without violence, whether by their own men, or by war, where rape is used as a strategy of war, as it is done in Kosovo or in Turkey, to break Albanian or Kurdish women. We also need to take this into consideration in a Norwegian gender equality debate. That is why one of my challenges to the Minister for Gender Equality is in a war government: Take responsibility for building skills on sexualised violence where the refugees are now located, and make it available to the refugee women who have come to Norway. It brings me to the situation of the abused minority women in Norway. It is a serious attack on their legal certainty when they have to prove in a very strong way that they have been mistreated, they must almost be dead to be believed. The Swedish and female movement’s requirement is to repeal the three-year rule, which prevents more minority women from breaking out of an unworthy relationship, and to give women the right to stay on a seagoing basis. The women's movement has for many years struggled for a wage to live off and a day to live with. Gender equality is moving too slowly, and it is going in reverse, which has been commonplace. Governments want equality law improvements, and that's good. She'll be able to support that. SV proposes, among others. a. that the object of the complaint by the Equality Ombudsman must be given the opportunity to decide on collective bargaining agreements, and not only on individual cases. The causes of different wages and salaries are complex, for example: a. the fact that men have greater capital income than women and that it may have to do with the position of women in the high-citizens of power. Different taxation of labour and capital income increases the pay gap between women and men, and it is important to do something about it — for other reasons as well, but at least in an equal pay perspective. When the reasons for different wages are complex, SV believes that the time has come to launch the requirement that the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and – if I don't remember wrong – SV were united, namely an equal pay commission that can look at actions as monks. SV has always considered that economic seaworthiness is a prerequisite for equality. There is a link between women's wages and women's part-time. 46 pst. Women work part-time, and several of them do it as a survival strategy to make everyday life go on. That's why the 6-hour day is worth a fight, which SV likes to take. It's about being able to live in everyday life, and that women should be able to stand in the full position of a whole working life, if a woman wants to. In the first instance, the state and the municipality have to set up several pilot projects. It would be a bold and necessary contribution to gender equality.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e686	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e689	It is clear that there has been a development in SV's focus in the gender equality debate from the previous period to today's debate that I also very much appreciate, even though it is part of the old themes that are still emerging, such as. a. the proposal on the Equal pay Commission, which I, although repeated three years after it was first promoted, still seems to be a poor proposal, which will only help to postpone the introduction of equal pay. We know what's wrong, we've got the Work Review Committee. It's just doing it! The State has set a good example in this regard. But it's a paradox that the one time it really happened in the equal pay case, it was because we had an administrative minister a little bit up in the years, with a strong connection to the trade movement. It's been a little bit of it. On 30 May 1995, the opinion on the previous amendments to the Equality Act was adopted. At the time, SV argued strongly against quotaing as an instrument, because we had recently received the report that I referred to earlier. SV used it to point to allowances as an inappropriate instrument, at the time of the introduction of human quota. For the rest, the government parties — with SV on draw — said the following about the quotaing of men into certain training courses: ‘These members would stress that a weakening of the Equality Act, in order to achieve a highly uncertain effect, is very alarming and represents a step backwards for Norway as a leading country in gender equality.’ It was so strongly underlined. A clarification of the SV’s view of quotas — and perhaps especially of men’s allowances into certain training courses — would have been useful to remove any uncertainty about the revision of the Equality Act.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e701	First of all, with a quota: SV is the party that has gone most in the rush to get a quota, because we think that those who have not had the same access to power and positions, namely the women, could then come out and get the positions you have the right to in society. Then there was quota for men. I understood the question so that's what it was about. For years, however, all posts have been allocated to almost all posts, and to the extent that the rules on allowances have had an effect on education, the rules on allowances have been applicable to men. I don't believe anything in the fact that quotaing men for nurses and women's nurses has any special effect. What would have the effect would be to raise your salary. It would really have the effect of getting more men into the care profession, which we all have to think of as valuable. So to believe in an equal pay commission or not. If you recognise that the causes of different wages are complex, you have to try to go new ways. I don't think you know everything. In any case, a comprehensive strategy must look at the measures that will be taken. Nor does it exclude this: since women mostly work in the public sector, transfers to municipalities will have a very high impact on women's wages. You really have to focus on this, and I hope that the Workers' Party can be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e710	Men and women are created equivalent. It implies that they must have equal opportunities for education, for professional choice and for securing their career opportunities. It also means that men and women have the same responsibility for this in practice, not just on paper. Men in my generation have been through a process – sometimes also a painful process – in this area, I'd like to admit it. Nevertheless, it turns out that there is still a long way to go until men and women take equal responsibility, not least when it comes to work at home, which is an important prerequisite for it to work out. The Equality Ombudsman has carried out a survey showing that women in full-time work outside the home work twice as much in the home as men in full-time work. It says a little bit about where we are today. It's about shaping the future society. Our children grow up and are characterized by their surroundings, by their parents and by other role models. I think SV in a way places crucial emphasis on equality in society, only we get changed things there, and most of it will be all right. I can agree that it's important – and I think it's also underlined – but I think this is also about values and mentality and about embossing the future society, not least through the children. I think SV kind of hangs a little bit in an old socialist thinking that just society is doing the right thing, so it's going to be so good. Don't EN agree that this is about values in the deepest sense, about shaping the future society through the children, and about creating mentality and culture for equality?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e719	Obviously, this is about values. Obviously, it's about values when I'm talking about getting rid of oppression and that we're going to promote liberation. When I talk so hot about the 6-hour day, it's about giving the opportunity for an equal society, where we all have time to take care of each other and to participate in the same line in the community. Ola T. Loan describes the situation in the thousand homes, and that women here take more responsibility than men. That's absolutely right. But I think today's young men take more responsibility than our generation's men have. Paper burning has meant something, and that is why we are concerned that all men should be able to have independent rights in the field of paper burning. Getting women and men to take the same responsibility at home has something to do with women's position in society. It has something to do with pay. That's why the work for equal pay, even in that perspective, becomes very important.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e728	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e731	The report by the Council of State provides a good overview of the gender equality situation in Norway. But what it shows above all is that we have a long way to go before women and men have the same opportunities for free choice. With that I have also said what I perceive the equality struggle as. It is the struggle for every woman and man to make his own choices, prioritizing on the basis of individual wishes. For me, equality is not a struggle to make women and men alike, I would like to have said that. I would also like briefly to touch on the discussion we have had for two years about the effect of cash support on the status of equality. I just want to establish that Left's support for the introduction of the cash support aims to make free choice more possible, not to lock women in a gender role pattern. I therefore await the evaluation of the effect of the cash support and hope that the Storting will have enough room to let it go for some time before we take that discussion again. I look at the discussion that has been, as a struggle between those who will decide everything for us, and us who instead want us to be able to make free choices. I must say that as a politician, I am proud of the role of politicians in the equality struggle. In my opinion, the woman's progress towards more equality is primarily a result of political decisions, and it is unfortunately a fact that the business community is left behind when we look at the statistics. It shows that wages are different at all levels from top to bottom, but the most worrying thing is that we are moving towards a society where we are getting more and more clear that women are getting specific occupations and role patterns, especially in care. It's a suspicious development. But I actually have trouble seeing how we can further influence this with laws and regulations. For me, the equality struggle is now primarily about removing obstacles that we can be equal, not so much in the direction of detailing this in the future. It is obvious that the political system gives men advantages over women, and that women do not feel equally comfortable. As a Left-Man, I am proud of Left's history on the front of equality. Above all, we have been the leading party for equality in Norway, and there is a line from the Left Women Krog, Qvam and Kjelsberg before the turn of the century and up to Minister of Defence Løwer today. We've been in front every time women should take a new chance, but I have to say that at the moment I feel it's relatively still in the field of equality in most parties. I have asked myself the question: why is it now slower in the future? I have no fixed theories as to why we now seem to be standing nearest to the place resting. The equality struggle is primarily a struggle for rights, and in battle men are naturally stronger than women. What I feel is the most important thing now, is to make women dare. As a Left-Man, for many years I was opposed to having my own women's team, a women's organization. I've come to believe that we should still have, because I think women need their own arenas to build self-confidence. It's about getting the same boldness that men have, that's what women now need to get even further into the fight for equality. I think that one of the last political decisions, namely 40 pst. the allocation of institutional grants to women has been very successful. Women have been shown to be better established than men. All they're missing is audacity.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e744	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e747	There's nothing that makes me so angry as when a left-wing representative, with the story behind them in terms of equality, goes up and tells me that women need more self-confidence. You world so much confidence we have! We actually have more than many men. And the self-confidence that men don't have, it can help the representative get them, because men don't have confidence to enter the care professions. Men have no confidence in choosing untraditionally. Women have much greater confidence in themselves. The representative from the Left also mentioned that he was proud of the representatives from the Left who were involved in the policy. Then I want to ask him: is he proud that when party leader Sponheim in connection with the IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu was to appoint a sample of seven representatives, only one woman was allowed? And the excuse he's using, I've heard it before – and it didn't come from the Left people, but it came: Unfortunately, we didn't have time to find capable women. I heard it before, in the 1950s, and it's coming back from the left now. Is the Left proud of today's gender equality policy?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e754	Let me do the last one first. Well, that's what I said, that I don't think there's any reason to be proud of what's happened in the last ten to fifteen years on the gender equality front. I don't think we've made much progress. If Sponheim has managed to find enough women, I don't have much background knowledge in myself to judge. What I'm sure is that Sponheim has been more eager than most people to try to find women. In my time as Vice President of the Left Party, one of the tasks that we added to the very big weight was finding women who were willing to go into positions. And I believe that women are still not bold enough. I think they can be more bold, because, as I said, the experience from – something as banal as – the SND grant of founding scholarships shows that women are actually better in many areas than men. They have more compassion, more intuition, they're better payers, they don't go so easily bankrupt – at all they have a success story that men should be looking at. But: In fact, women who build rocks rarely go beyond the small scale stage. That's what men do, and I think it's because men are bolder. I hope that the women can get bolder. If they need more confidence, at least we in the left have done a lot to try to build it up. That women have self-confidence, I'm not the least in doubt about, but there are questions about building this further if we're going to achieve the goals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e767	I understand that the Left's representative here is disappointed with the ten to fifteen last years' equality policy if he has the starting point for which he now did well, namely that women need more self-confidence, and that it is not necessary to use laws and regulations. In his first post he said that further laws and regulations are not necessary, that the gender equality struggle is about to remove obstacles, and that he was against detailed regulation. What he also said, as I think was quite provocative, was that the equality struggle is a struggle for rights, and that men are naturally stronger. And that has to mean something, then you have to cancel out those differences. This is not done by giving women more self-confidence; it is done as politicians at national level by providing laws and regulations and governance on how to balance these differences. There left has actually been quite strong, for example. as regards the design of the Equality Act. I see now that the Left is going to go over to the more liberal side, where the strongest right is going to apply, and one is going to be allowed to fight forward, that is. men. And then I have to ask the representative about something that goes on the rules where we've shown the most control in recent years when, for example. the parental quota, namely that the father has to take out four weeks’ leave: was left against that detailed regulation in order to get more men to take care of? Is there anything but building up the women's self-confidence that is Left's equality struggle, I think it's good that the Left is so low on the polls.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e776	I'm for men to have to take out these four weeks. And when I say that I don't think that the need to legislate for men and women to become more equal, it's because I think we're now going to look at the effect of what we've already done – and I haven't seen that there are significant proposals out there and going that can fix this. When Eldbjørg Løwer joined Norway's first female defence minister, she was asked if she felt that she was breaking a new line. She said that if you do a bad job, no one saves. I feel that what is the main message from her in this context is that she is bold enough to take on this job because she knows that she is able to do a good job. And I think that women should show in ever-new contexts. On behalf of the Left, I would say that we will continue to work for more equality in society, and the biggest job is now to try to find women who are willing to show the daringness to do.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e785	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e788	When writing the history of this century, one of the most important chapters will be the chapter on gender equality — on Norwegian women taking up employment, who took up education institutions and subsequently took up the political arena. Women themselves have made the choices that have led them into working life, into education and into politics. I am among those who have often said the same thing as the representative Johansen said in the post, namely that it is political decisions that have brought about equality. And of course it's to some extent that. But I think that we may have underestimated the individual choices made by individual women, and overestimated the importance of political decisions, because it is women themselves who have decided to go out into work, who have decided to take more and more education, and who have decided to go into politics. To some extent, they have been helped by political decisions, but very often, policy has fallen behind. It was not the case that we first got kindergartens and parental leave, and then the women went out to work – across the board. Women first went out to work, then we saw that it was not possible to combine a working life where more and more women were in paid work, with as poorly-developed welfare schemes as we had when it came to kindergarten, parental leave and the school sector. What the policy has been about is not primarily to choose for women that they should go to work and take education. What equality policy has been about is whether politicians have been able to address the challenges it creates for women themselves to choose to go to work, take education and simply take on the gender equality they want. Although there may be a slightly different way of looking at it, I think history will show that this is what it was about, because both in Norway and in many other countries, we have seen that the political decisions have in many ways been somewhat lagging behind. This, of course, does not mean that it is less important that we have been given measures such as a year-old parental leave, a strong increase in kindergarten development, the school leave system and other important measures that have made it easier to combine equal work with an equal family life, where there is also room and time for children and softer values than just work and income. The more serious it is that in some of these areas we are now seeing developments going in the wrong direction. Of course, it is gratifying that kindergartens are still being built in this country, but it is serious that there is a crisis in kindergarten expansion. Last year we built a little over 3,000 kindergartens, and the target this year is 2,500. We have to go back to the early 1970s to find an equally low rate of expansion. It is a serious setback for family policy, equality and not least for many children. It is also in my opinion that the cash support is a serious setback. To the extent that there are problems with freedom of choice, the main problem is that we have too few kindergartens. The working party is not opposed to providing cash support for families with children. We do that through child welfare, parental leave and income support. What we're against is a whole new form of cash support, where you pay people not to use kindergarten. Otherwise, you can do whatever you want, and still receive the support. It is also serious to see the cuts we have now received in e.g.. the school leave scheme. Although these are not dramatic changes, in some areas there are serious steps in the wrong direction in relation to the long period we have now had with a gender equality policy that has addressed the challenges that result from women themselves choosing to take education and going out into the labour market. I had ten years ago the joy of running the Mansroll Committee, and I spent two years of my life discussing human roles. I did that mostly with women who were concerned that men should be more concerned with themselves. There was one here who had been on the Internet and looked for documents about men and equality. Well, we -- Arne Wam, Helge Jordal, Berthold Grünfeld and some others -- made big reports, and they were about men. The main message was this: Women become equal, they change and have decided to change their role in society. We can do that like or dislike it, but the women have decided to do it, and they do it anyway. The people's choice is whether we're going to get involved and be able to relate to the changes in women's roles, or whether we're going to try to close our eyes for that. We in the Human Role Committee thought that men should take equality more seriously. They should change their roles. We suggested the paper commission, and now things are starting to happen, even if things go a little bit slow sometimes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e805	For the Progress Party, equality is a natural thing. The party of progress considers all people to be equivalent. The relationship between sexes, groupings and individuals should and should therefore be in working life, leisure, private life, etc. adapt naturally without the involvement of the public. The party of progress will underline that, among other things, a. competition makes enterprises more interested in securing the most skilled employees possible, irrespective of whether they are men or women. The fact that there has been a need for gender equality in our time is correct, but that in Norway we need a strong law to ensure this, in my view, is not correct. The equality work, such as: a. resulted in all voting rights being obtained, almost 90 years old. Everyone today has equal opportunities for school space, work, etc. Is there something missing? If this happens, it can be solved by creating new laws and regulations. Equality is, in the view of the Progress Party, not that everyone should be forced into work, but that everyone should have a real choice. That all women should work outside, for example. from 1 p.m. 8 to 8 o'clock. 16, having children in kindergarten, thinking and acting as men, is not equal in the view of the Advancement Party. Equality must mean equality and respect for one another and the characteristics of one another, and that women and men like to solve the problems of their lives together. One of the most important elements of the welfare society of the Progress Party is the family. The socialist parties have contributed greatly to the dissolution of the family pattern we see today, and to the public takeover of tasks that naturally belong to the family, tasks that the public cannot fully solve. One of the main reasons why this has gone wrong is precisely the partially misguided gender equality policy that has been leading for too long. That's probably why so many women now gradually change their voice patterns. Gender quotation is a means that most other parties believe will promote equality. This applies both to regular jobs, to schoolwork, to politics, etc. There is a complete disagreement between the Party of Advancement. We want to remove everything that reminds us of gender quotas, and all the laws that defend this. The Progress Party wants a 100 pst law. gender neutral. That's what equality is, that both sexes are equivalent without the help of artificial laws that skilled white people have discovered will fit into their social patterns. For approx. Two years ago, Anne Lise Ryel, who was then a gender equality officer, wanted women applicants for NTNU study places in Trondheim to be admitted to the data study if they had 90 pst. of men's score. This was, in the view of the Progress Party, a strong downgrading of women. Accepting inferiorities in women than in men, and other similar examples, creates a high level of equality by putting one sex on different premises aside for the benefit of the other. What you're doing is you're undermining a sense of equality and women's vision. The Party of Progress is probably the only party in Norway which, as mentioned above, does not discriminate. It must be very serious when you let someone go in front of others just because you're of a different sex. In addition, the Progress Party will introduce a spouse-by-spouse tax in order to make the efforts of domestic spouses equal to the tax and social contributions of temporary workers. This is a very important point, which will be of great importance when you look at it. a. become a retired person, and become more dependent on the public. With the proposals of the Progress Party, the spouses will receive a similar pension, regardless of how they have distributed their work and income. Today, we see that many, and this particularly affects older women who have worked at home without fixed income, are now left with only the minimum pension, while men and a few women with a past who are out-of-work have a better financial life. This will change the proposals of the Progress Party. There are also those — and often among women — who claim that gender equality has created greater gender differences. Many women today want to take up education and decide their professional career before starting a family. This gives self-confidence and freedom as well as economic independence in a completely different way from the past. But we want this to happen on equal terms, with no special advantages. Gender quotaing in political life, governance and advice, in business, etc. is a matter that the Councils of Children and Family States underlined in their presentation. As I said, the party of progress does not want this. If you are to bemoan such duties, it must be governed by your own free will and be on the basis of qualifications and other skills that enable you to fill the job you are going to do in a proper way. It must and should not depend on whether you are a man or a woman.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e833	I'm going to try to comment on some of the articles in this room today. I have had my payment, and I thank you for all the praise and rice I have received in connection with it. To put it this way: Ros is good to get, but if one doesn't get any criticism, one doesn't come forward either. So I also take with me the critical comments that came from several of the representatives. But that's part of the criticism I can't quite turn a hole on, because I don't fully understand it. Among other things, I would like to comment on a part of the recording by the representative Bekkelem Orheim. She points out that the distribution was a little concrete. I have read through the statement held by the Minister for Gender Equality a few years ago, and in that way they are quite similar. A breakdown should provide an overview of the measures in progress. But then I have also shown that we actually want to – and also to consider coming up with new measures. Some of these measures I would like to be able to present in the distribution, but they are not yet handled by the Government. They also come to the Storting in turn and in order. Karita Bekkemelm Orheim says that the Christian People's Party has tried to become more modern. What she's doing, I don't know, but I have a sense that the Labour Party doesn't want to realize that at many points we're actually some. For one should not be a single cork with the Government or the Christian People's Party when it comes to equality policy, even if it really is. The measures that Karita Bekkemelm Orheim points out that she and her party consider are exactly the same measures that I have said that we also consider, and that we will come back to when we present the revision of the equality law and the revision of the rules on contributions. The word "estimated" is used because the government has not yet concluded, and as long as the government has not concluded, at least the representatives of the Labour Party know that I cannot come to any conclusion in a settlement. But they're coming. I hope that they will be received as positively as her own proposals that have been made, because then I think we should be able to get some. I am very much in agreement with much of the situation presented by the representative, Bekkelem Orheim, in his contribution. This debate has also become a debate on whether to bet on carrot or whip. In some of these areas, we've been betting on carrots for years, but it hasn't worked well enough, so in some areas we also have to look at whether we need legal regulation. There's a conflict between wanting a simpler Norway without too many legal regulations, and there's a balance between how much we're going to regulate, and how many carrots we're still going to spend to make business use of schemes that they should use. Then there are also many who have been concerned about this in the context of federal dishes. I said in the introduction that we would like to come back to this with fathers' dishes. Nor do I believe any of the representatives who have mentioned this, expect me to respond when it was submitted. It's a budgetary matter. I know that the previous government was also busy with the same thing. They could not find room for it on their budget proposals. Nor have we found room for it on our budget proposals at the moment. It's a very high priority case from my side, and the government will come back to it when there's room to suggest fathers' rights. This is not a case that one party has been running. This is a matter that I think is as good as full a deal about here in Stortinget. But that some of the parties propose federal courts without financial cover for it will not lead to its adoption. I think it must come from the Government's side, and I take the signal with me. I had not expected it to be put to the vote either if we had proposed it. To say a little about some of the issues that arise in terms of equality when it comes to representation, we have actually sent out new challenges from the government to business and to organisations in connection with the appointment of candidates, for example. to technical calculation selection. We encourage them to promote two candidates, one of each gender. They haven't. We have only received male candidates, and the Minister of Labour and Administration has had to go back to the organisations: they must also have women who can do the job that we are asking them to do! We haven't accepted the suggestions that came from LO or other organizations here, because they weren't good enough. Then there is also a part – not so many – that has been within this with kindergarten development. I want to say that kindergarten expansion has not stopped, but that it has slowed down in the last year, and I have admitted it many times. I hope it will turn, but it's also a dilemma that when we start to approach full coverage in some municipalities, then there are other municipalities that have a long way to go. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e852	The President will remember the speaking time, also for the Council of State. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e857	In its statement, the Council of State draws attention to the fact that the Government has adopted a provision of the Equality Act which provides for special treatment for men in the context of child education and care. This is also used by the representative Molvær Grimstad as proof that the Government really cares for men in getting them into professions related to children. What I think is a little strange, and as I think testifies to double standards – I use the word once more, even though I have had a lot of fun before – is that they boast of doing something they have actually done in the past. In 1995, we dealt with the Equality Act, and then there were two parties that went in order for us to have a special treatment for men, and that we should change the regulations. It was the Right and Labour Party, while the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the SV argued very strongly to oppose the positive treatment of men. They used arguments such as that it was not proven that men were discriminated against when they entered these care professions, and in addition it would weaken the equality law. How did the Council of State come up with a better idea? I understand that she would follow the majority of the Greatness, I think it's fair enough, but to boast that the Christian People's Party has taken care of men in this area, I must say that I think I'm something gross after the debate I witnessed in 1995.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e866	Grethe Fossum would like to use the word 'double moral', and in a way I understand that she does, because it is true, as she says, that we went against this proposal when it was up to handling the Storting in the previous period. As a government council, I followed the half-heart up – I can admit it – but I thought it was right to follow it up because there was a number in Stortinget that decided. When Grethe Fossum says I boast of it, I actually don't think I did it. I've pointed out that there's something of what the government has done, and the whole arrangement is actually an overview of things that are done, and things that we're going to do. Whether it's boast or not is not important to me. My main reason for going against the previous period was that we had a rather high unemployment rate, and then I thought in those areas where there were many women, it wouldn't be easier for men to come in. It's a situation that has turned around today, and now I know that this is an argument that can be discussed in a factual way, because unemployment is in urban areas. I found out that the arguments, however – as a majority in Stortinget had suggested – were enough when the unemployment rate was as low as it was. And then I also want to add that I think it's important that we get more men into these positions. I hope that the bill will lead to more men entering these jobs, but I believe it also needs other tools for that to happen. I would like to comment on one of the articles in the previous round. It was Bredvold who had a post where he pulled out NTNU's female quota, that some of the women had worse results than men and got to come in anyway. There is a system that men have had for years in relation to, among other things, a. learner's ball. I almost didn't hear a single representative from any party that reacted to it then. Now we also want to use it relative to women where we need more of them.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e877	At the conclusion of the Council of State in relation to the representative of Bredvold: of course, the Party of Advances is also opposed to any kind of quota in the case of men. We also focus on justice and equivalency in that area. I have, at an earlier stage, launched my reply, but I will first be allowed to comment a little up against the post that the Council of State also held here now. I have noticed that the Council of State has an ability to use the same sentence up to several times, also in this post: the government comes back to, the government comes back to, and the government works with, the government works with. It's going to be interesting to see when the council comes back with all these things. The Council of State attaches great importance to this with quotaing and working in order to get men into the care professions. This with the need to get women into business, especially in computer systems, was also mentioned. When I study the composition of the staff in the department, this becomes strange. In the area that they want to give priority to women, they are inferior, i.e. in the budget and computer sections. There's six boys and five girls, but where there's really a need for a strengthening of the man, in the equality section, it's interesting to see that there's ten employees, and only one is a man. In the legal section, which works with marriage, the law on children and parents, etc., there is 100 pst. female employees. The total in the department is 86 pst. women and 14 pst. men. I wonder if the Council of State can also put a little emphasis on equality within its own work area – if it is possible to call it – and maybe try to get an equality in terms of employment there, because I think that's where we need to focus on equality if we're going to get it further developed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e888	I'm amazed at the commitment to Per Sandberg, because after all the arguments that both he and others from his party have made in this discussion, there would be no problem at all that there is such a bias in the Ministry of Children and Family. That's about. 70 pst. women and 30 pst. men in the Ministry of Children and Family, so the percentage stated by the representative is not correct. We're not good enough when it comes to leadership positions, because there's too many men compared to women, but in some departments it's overweight of women. We don't have any allowances. One of the things that happens often, for example. The legal department is that when the guys have been in the department for a while and have had a job as a lawyer, they find other settings that are higher wages. We can't in any way avoid it happening again. But the fact that men are more concerned about getting into a law practice and higher pay positions than women have traditionally been is also something that is reflected in the image that is with us. Then it might also be possible to add the number of women's games, for example. in the equality department, mirrors of interest for equality in general in society. Unfortunately, it has to a great extent been an interest that women have had and that women have run. I would like to welcome many male seekers to the various departments of the department. When we're looking at people, one of the things we really think we need in some areas more men and in other areas more women are needed. We have that with us, but for Per Sandberg this shouldn't be a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e900	It is good that the government follows up on getting more women in senior positions in the public sector in Kommune-Norway, but it is a saying that you have to sweep for your own door. The proportion of women in top management positions in general government is still declining, especially in the state. In spite of a number of action plans, projects and good intentions, progress is being made in a wrong direction. It is very disappointing that now there is only one female ministerial council of a total of 17. A short time ago, it was five. This will clearly have implications for gender equality in all areas. In fact, I agree with the Council of Greece in an interview in the journal Stat & Styring nr. 1-1999 states that ‘this is embarrassing’. He says that this clearly affects what views are brought to squares, and what values they are based on. He believes that the debates had become more nuanced, with other types of arguments, if the feature of women had been greater. That's what a man says – and I agree with his heart! It's actually quite serious. My questions to the Council of State are: What does she think about this, and why has she, as Minister of Equal Opportunities, not monitored the recruitment process better in the departments? For the Council of State does not believe that there are no qualified women in the ministerial councils? I would also like to ask: does the Council believe that quotaing will solve these problems, or is there actually any other means to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e909	First of all, I would like to stress that my statement is only part of the documents that we presented. There are many attachments, and one of the attachments mentions the problem that the representative Sjøli raises. I can tell you that the number of women's ministerial councils has risen from one to two, so we're on the right track, but I totally agree that it's too bad. We also know that the Minister of Labour and Administration, to whom Sjöli went an interpellation, has given a very thorough answer and done some good for plans in the Department on how to get more women leaders. There's something heavy on us. There's also a little bit about it in one of the attachments to my distribution. ‘Women, quality and competence in the state’ is the project with which we work. My experience is that when we have available options, we have to go out and search and encourage women to search. We need to try to do something actively in order to get more women to search for it. It also has our own specific areas, including: advice and selection, where the government has desired female leaders – I shouldn't mention where it is – and where we have been active and asked candidates that we think are good. I am pleased that we are now getting a database – a register – of women in leadership settings and with leadership skills that we can use in different contexts. Then it can be easier to find candidates to fill different leadership options, which I want a much better distribution than it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e920	This debate has been very much about women in senior positions, and I agree that there is an area that needs to be looked at in particular, but there are some areas that I miss. I presented a challenge to the Council of State in my post, and I assume that there was a lack of time that left her unresponsive – therefore a new challenge. It's on the basis that Norway is at war, and that we see rape being used as a war strategy. I would like to know what responsibility the Government will take on to build up the competence of sexualised violence needed where the refugees are now, and whether it can also be made available to the refugee women who have come to Norway. So until the minority women, who are traditionally not mentioned in particular in a gender equality debate. We all have to take that inwards. The minority women have been concerned with the so-called three-year rule. As long as it exists, several minority women who have been in the country in pairs for less than three years prevent them from breaking out of unworthy circumstances. They have been concerned that women should have the right to stay on a sea-going basis once they have come here. Will the Council of State and the Government do anything about it? I have another question that concerns everyday women. There is pressure on women in the health sector. The statistics of the National Fund show that many women — many more women than men — are pushed out of working life with disability after they have passed 45 years. Can the Council of State see any correlation between it and the pressure on the local economy, and what will the Council of State do in the event?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e931	I also want to refer to attachments to the distribution when dealing with women and sexually selected. The government is working on various actions against sexualised selections. We know that dictation is used as a weapon in war. I think there's a need for international organisations that are actively entering and fighting against it. At the same time, I think that the women who come to Norway, who have such trauma behind them, may need special follow-up, especially at the psychological level. They must be helped to get through the experience they have as a victim of the war to which they have been subjected. Clearly, when we accept refugees to Norway, the follow-up goes to these levels, both in relation to the children who have been subjected to acts of violence and in relation to the women. They also need to be helped to work through their war history. Here we also have a work going on in relation to the help they need when they get into the municipalities. In fact, this is where the psychiatry plan becomes an important part. It can be used to help these women and their children when they come to Norway. When it concerns the situation of minority women, we have been concerned about it. Among other things, we have presented an action plan against coercion known to the representative. We also come up with an action plan against domestic elections, i.e. private elections, if not for a very long time. It will also contain measures specifically in relation to minority women. There has also been a softening of legislation when it comes to the three-year rule, so that the women who have been exposed, for example, are exposed to it. selected, should not be returned as the ‘three-year rule’ says. That softening has already happened.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e940	In connection with the revision of the gender equality law that the Council of State has had to say that she will come back with, I have some questions and challenges for her. The debate we had in 1995 made it clear that we had a slightly different attitude to the equality law. It was outlined both in the debate and in the comments. The Central Party and the Christian People's Party called for the use of the law's intention to prohibit discrimination, while the Workers' Party was more concerned with emphasising that we should have a law to promote equality. If the Council of State could have commented on what thoughts she is making about the Equality Act as a workshop to promote equality, I could have been happy about it. I have some points I would like to challenge the Council of State on which, if possible, she can come back in connection with this revision. One is a point that I have touched on on several occasions, which goes on action plans for equality in companies of a certain size. The second, which has also been the subject of the Equality Ombudsman, is to have the activity requirement imposed on the public to promote gender equality, to also apply to the private sector, in line with what is available in Sweden and Denmark. And the third is that government representation in state-owned businesses is also being quotad, so that we secure women into that area. These are three concrete points that I hope the Council of State can give more signals than just that she will come back to it, but if she comes back to it, we shall be pleased then too.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e951	One of my problems today is that I can't be entirely concrete when it comes to these challenges that the representative Alstad came up with, as the representative Bekkemelm Orheim came up with before, and as I said myself, is part of the central areas we consider when we review the equality law. For example, action plans for companies over a certain size are something that we actively assess, but today I can't say whether we're going to propose it or not. I can when we put forward the equality law. Sandberg has also said in the past that ‘the government is coming back to’ – yes, it is working in a government. One cannot come up with the conclusions until one puts forward the final work, and I believe that the representative Alstad should have a lot of understanding, because he has probably experienced that his own party members who had a government seat could not come up with clear conclusions until the work was done. But I can promise both Alstad, Sandberg and others who are wondering how long they are going to wait, that when it comes to the equality law and the child contribution rules, they are at least going to listen before the election campaign. So then we might get an important discussion about these issues in the election campaign. It can be nice enough! But so one also understands that this is something that is on the bed, without me wanting to fix it. Gender equality law must be capable of promoting equality and must have in place measures aimed at prohibiting discrimination. I do not understand that there should be any contradiction between promoting equality and prohibiting discrimination, for in many ways there are two sides to the same issue.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e960	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e963	For us who were engaged in women's policies for approx. 30 years ago, it's exciting, but actually also a little scary, to see that our sons and daughters are now adults and are going to participate in the so-called equal society. I don't believe in any way that at that time we managed to solve the problems well enough, or that we can give our sons and daughters an equal society. But despite this, I see with optimism the new, youthful feminist movement, which is actually the daughters of the 1970s mothers, and who, once again, dare to say yes to being feminist. I think it's a happy move and a strong indication of what they stand for. They actually give the bluff that very few boys like that girls call themselves feminists. It actually scares the boys a little bit that the girls so clearly express that they have confidence. Declaring as a feminist doesn't automatically create an equal society, and that's why I have a hard time seeing what these young girls want to change. But we know something. We know they're taking education -- they're taking higher education, longer education than many boys, and they're getting better grades. I don't want to draw the conclusion that they are thus more intelligent. We also know that they decide when they want children and that they decide that they will work, have children and actually also dance – all at the same time. That means that they require something from us as a society, and in order for us to make progress in equality, we have to be willing to give them what they require. These young people, both boys and girls, expect them to meet an equal society, because that's what we've been raising them to. But then they come out into society, and it's not equal at all. The first thing they meet is the sex-shared labour market. And precisely in this sex-shared labour market, the problem is that women earn less than men do in their professional choices. The Council of State was far from addressing the historical problem, but it did not outline a solution. She should, because the researchers show that progress is in the wrong direction, and it's actually a government council's job to try to correct mistakes. In the examination of the equality law in 1995, the Christian People’s Party – in opposition at that time – outlined that it was probably easier – that they would be in favour of both the raising of the status of women’s women’s women’s organisations. So far, we haven't seen anything like that. I think we should make a number of demands to an equality minister. Firstly, he or she must be constantly aware of equality, whether it is going in the wrong direction and possibly come back with proposals that bring it back to the right track. Instead, the Minister for Gender Equality has failed to assess the gender impact, among others. a. in one of its major cases, in the consultation note relating to cash support. And it's actually in the investigation manual that this is going to be done. It shows that the Council of State may be a little indifferent to its own instructions. The fact that Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade Sponheim only appointed one woman to a sample of seven when he was going to put together a selection to look at the knowledge and IT centre at Fornebu is, in my opinion, quite gross. And when you look at what excuses he used – that it was not possible to find capable women in a short time – it reminds you of the arguments of the 1960s and 1970s. The language and rhetoric of the Minister of Gender Equality and of the rest of the Government on gender equality are actually quite good. But equality policy should not be measured in words, but in action. And the practical implementation and the initiative that has been taken are, in my opinion, far back to want. For example, to what extent does this apply? the Minister for Gender Equality and the Equality Competence Centre as interlocutors to find out what is at stake in the field of equality? What device does the Minister for Gender Equality have to capture signals around the country? She notes that there are many big differences, but what is being done? Both through the historical review and through the Prime Minister's presentation of today's situation, I have the impression that I am living in the world of men. Allow me to hope that tomorrow belongs to both sexes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e986	Norway has come a long way in gender equality, we can agree on that in this room. At the same time, we must note that we have not come far enough. Today, we are left with perhaps more informal than formal obstacles to real equality. But these obstacles may well be as difficult to overcome as those that have been in the law. Attitudes are important. We need acceptance that equality should not involve women entering into the roles of men, and that society accepts that both women and men take into account the different phases of life and value individual choices. Right will have a secure society that guarantees freedom of choice and flexibility, and that creates self-held people, a society independent of gender that respects the integrity, creativity, abilities and opportunities of individuals. I have great respect for those who opt out of work and income in periods where they think it's best for the family. Nevertheless, I believe it must be an objective that the participation of men and women in professional life is more varied and less one-sided, that we can find both sexes both in kindergartens and in business. And there are several reasons for that. First of all, many highly educated and highly qualified women are missing out on exciting job opportunities in business, just as men can miss out on interesting jobs in municipalities. Secondly, businesses are missing out on the diversity needed to achieve and develop innovation, while at the same time gaining a much weaker recruitment base, such as: a. in the case of promotions and management jobs. Thirdly, as long as the gender balance between the sectors is so uneven, society does not get the balance needed in the private and public sectors. Therefore, it is important that businesses continue to market themselves with good and interesting jobs for women as well. I did an interpellation earlier in our discussion about women and management, and how we can ensure that more women come into senior positions in the public sector. I'm glad the government has this on its agenda, although it's not always enough to want anything. You also have to do something, and it has now been confirmed by the Minister for Children and Family that she wants to. Ensuring a better gender balance in leading positions is not just about ensuring equal opportunities for women to make a career, nor about creating broader and better leadership. It's also about creating good role models for our children. It shall be as natural for mother to be in a leading position as for father, and it shall be as natural for girls to choose professions with such a starting point as for boys to do so. If we're going to get there, it's not enough formal equality rules. We have to accept that men and women are different. We have different needs and choices, and it requires flexibility in working life. Therefore, family policies are also important when talking about gender equality in the workplace, opportunities and not least acceptance for women and men to choose different solutions to take care of their children during periods of time. The right has fought for the cash support because there is a reform to ensure that each family is able to choose the most appropriate care system for them. In order for more men to be able to give greater care to their children, I am pleased with the Minister for Gender Equality's signals about increasing the possibility for fathers to take out father's leave. We now expect this to be followed up. As early as 1996, the Right proposed that the Government should set up a research centre for women’s health and women’s diseases. The background was that studies showed clear evidence of lack of focus on gender differences in medical research, which in turn may lead to mistreatment because the female and human body have different tolerance limits, for example. for medicinal products. The current Labour Party government trained at the time of the case by putting down a sample to assess the question. I hope that this government agrees that the investigation presented earlier this year on female health underpins the view of Højre that such a research centre is still needed to pool research resources in this area. Such a research centre may also contribute to increasing the reputation of women’s diseases, and not least to providing us with more knowledge and better treatment methods. Equality is not just women's business. If we are to achieve full equality at home as well, we must involve both women and men. They must participate in the labour market on an equal footing and fully share family responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e1007	The 1995 Beijing Conference concluded that women and men do not enjoy the same rights, duties and opportunities in all areas of society as long as women are subjected to systematic violence and abuse. It limits the possibility of active participation. Violence occurs in the home and often in couples. This is the worst form of violence we have in society, and it's time we took a force to remove the taboo of it and the tendency to try to keep it silent. This, of course, is related to history. It's not long since men had a legal right to discipline their wives, an example that equality and women's health are a political issue associated with power and values for the rest. In NOW 1999: 13 on women’s health in Norway, violence against women has been treated in depth and the consequences are alarming. Not only does violence deprive women of fundamental human rights, but it also reveals chronic diseases and serious injuries, and it is a more frequent cause of death for women today than birth complications. It's actually one of two priority areas of the World Health Organisation's commitment to women's health. If there could be as much attention in the Norwegian press as the WHO's play on tobacco, I think we would have gotten far. In addition, violence against women also affects infants in the form of, among others. a. lower birth weights, and they already have a documented impact on children’s attitudes and ability to resolve conflicts later. This is why it is urgent both to combat violence in general and to address it as a significant measure of equality. Here the government has been too busy for this time. Several measures are outlined in the investigation and the most important is the creation of a women's violence selection by model of the Swedish sample, as has also been suggested in the Stortinget earlier. Then move on to another topic that also concerns home. We see that today's labour market is becoming increasingly demanding, perhaps especially for young children's parents in the start-up phase. We know that every three fathers with small children work 45 hours or more a week, and for fathers with older children, there are even more with this long working hours. At the same time, many enterprises use overtime to an increasing extent. In Norway, women today make an average of 21pst. less than men, and of course it affects who in the family must work more overtime. This means that we get a slower equality process at home and therefore also in the care of the children. The large time survey carried out by the Statistical Centre in 1992 showed that men with young children spent more time at work than women when pay, housework and care were combined. We might be able to pay particular attention to this and take up the six-hour proposal. Then it is obvious to assume that men are forced to give priority to jobs based on the financial framework that the family has during the period of establishment, while the children are small. In order to understand the priorities that men and women do in relation to caring for their own children and careers, it is therefore important to take into account the situation of young children’s families there and then. For this reason, it is important to make men more active in the care sector that traditional gender equality requirements on education and training for women and equal pay are met in practice. Work on equal pay and women's earnings and career opportunities needs to be improved in order to be involved in breaking the circles that prevent men from being more at home. Practical care is an important part of creating and supporting new human roles. It is therefore essential that the Government's work on equality and human debate concentrate primarily on the framework for men's opportunities to choose differently. And that is why it is important to make a stronger commitment to business to engage in recruitment and to actively promote gender equality in businesses, as well as to demand gender equality in governments in state-owned enterprises to promote women's opportunities. It's us men who serve to open up the possibilities of a fairer burden-sharing, so that we also get the opportunity to be more at home with our children and perhaps work a little less.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e1022	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e1026	In order to address what the representative of Alstad concluded with, government representation: it is well that the governments today are largely dominated by middle-aged men, while now there is often a greater proportion of women of those who come from universities and colleges, and who get the professions that can be interesting to business owners when they are putting together a board. I think this is going to sort out by natural means without quotas. Otherwise, it was not intended that this should be a line to Alstad, but he took hold of exactly the same problems that I had intended to address, in my three-minute post, although I have a somewhat different conclusion to the problems than Alstad has, and that is precisely violence against women and children. Gender dominance shows its most ugly face when an attack on women and children. This is not a new issue, it is an old issue, but it has often been privatised in the past. It has not been the subject of public debate, and I will commend the Minister for Gender Equality for having addressed this issue in a proper way. One cannot expect the action plans to be on the brink of a job. From the Right, we are pleased that the Minister for Gender Equality has set up a working group to draw up an action plan in this area, because it has a link with equality between people. Equality is based on mutual respect for each other's human dignity, for each other's abilities. Violence seems destructive to women, and the acceptance of violence also destroys men. One sees that the men who today have their wives in the crisis centers, 20 years ago, like to be small, save boys because Dad beat Mother, and today it is they who beat the wife. So violence is a hereditary process of women's oppression that it's very important that we do something about, and I'm glad that the Minister for Gender Equality has addressed this problem. I also think it is frightening that today we see a growing tendency to commercialize women and children. They are drawn into a sex industry and a sex market that is, to a great extent, a setback for equality in our society. These are problems we have to take seriously. This does not apply only to migrant women, but is particularly true of Norwegian men’s attitude towards women in general. And I'm waiting for a good follow-up here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e1037	I took the floor to comment on one of the perhaps most important challenges in the presentation by the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, namely the development of women's participation in social and business life. We still have a gender-divided market, so we still have a clear role to play in both education and labour market search, and the result is consistently lower wages and fewer chances of careers for women. However, the picture is not without certain positive features. As the Minister for Children and Family Affairs points out, today young women are equally well educated in relation to men of the same age, and thus, of course, women's opportunities for leadership in all parts of the business world will also increase accordingly. At the same time, I believe that women have a lot to contribute in terms of a number of important qualities — the way to think and reason — that make these suitable as leaders to a far greater extent than the speech of the figures suggests. Today's statistics are sad: 7 pst. women in senior management positions in private business, 20-25 pst. in the public sector. For peak positions, even lower numbers apply. I seem to see estimates of a more conscious recruitment policy to get women in senior positions in some groups and larger organisations. In the smaller companies, however, there is much left to be desired. I think it's important that the government has set itself the ambitious goal of increasing female leaders in the state to 30 pst. by the year 2001. It will have a major impact on the state's own business, it will have an important signal effect on women in general, and it will also, of course, contribute to broadening recruitment to leading positions in private business and to greater opportunities for women. Equality debates are often marked by much frustration, at least the debates I have heard, and this debate unfortunately does not differ much from that. It will also be, you have to admit, some steps forward, and then a little more back – in between. But I still choose to be optimistic on behalf of women. I have a strong sense that we can go into a period when there's going to be interesting things happening in relation to women's opportunities for more active and equal participation both in society and in business. At least the women have made their decision. But let me say that nothing comes depending on a mountain. After all, we are negotiating so much in this big deal – important negotiations where we achieve things when we are willing to slide on primary positions and ally ourselves. I believe that we should be more closely involved in such compromises and negotiations also in the area of equality. I think that will lead equality further in the future, rather than the more eloquent debate, which we have unfortunately also had tendencies towards here today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e1054	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e1066	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3470]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e1080	This case, St.prp. No 46, is about approving an agreement between the Ministry of Social and Health and the Dutch pharmaceutical wholesaler OPG on the purchase of shares in Norsk Medisinaldepot AS. The Committee, all with the exception of the Socialist Left Party, supports the fact that the Ministry can sell itself into Norwegian Medisinaldepot AS with the preliminary 17 pst. which is covered by this Agreement, while at the same time approving the proposal for an agreement between the OPG and the Ministry submitted by the same majority. The majority see this case as a follow-up to Storting's previous decision to sell up to 66 pst. of the shares of Norsk Medisinaldepot AS, which were approved for the treatment of Innst. S. No 252 for 1997-98. However, the Committee shares the question of when to submit the next 49 pst. of the shares to be sold. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Government Parties and the Workers' Party, supports the Government's proposal that these shares be sold through a distribution sale on Oslo Exchange by 2003 while the Progress Party and the Right, on the other hand, are in favour of this being implemented by the end of 2000. The Advance Party and the Right also promote proposals to empower the Government to sell entirely out of Norsk Medisinaldepot AS. The Socialist Left Party has promoted its own observation that they are against a sale of shares in Norsk Medisinaldepot AS. The Progress Party sees no significant arguments for the state to be left with a large shareholding in Norwegian Medisinaldepot AS, and I just want to be allowed to show that the Ministry of Social and Health of St.prp. No 63 for 1996-97 recommended the sale in full or in part of the State's holdings in Norsk Medisinaldepot AS. The Progress Party is convinced that if one had opened up a larger share item to be sold, and unless there were fewer leads than the case, the price of the State's shares would probably be even higher, this being because, according to a letter from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health in connection with the treatment of St.prp. No 63 for 1996-97 was recommended in full or in part for the sale of the State's interests, while a letter from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health to the Committee showed that there have been more interested parties wishing to purchase in this company, but that these interested parties wanted a larger item than what could be purchased. Several had, among others: a. proof that they wanted a holding of more than 51 pst. in the company. In conclusion, I would like to address the minority proposals that the Progress Party and the Right have promoted in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e1100	Harald T. Nesvik has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e1103	The applicant's rapporteur has made a clear statement on the matter. The working party is party to the negotiated agreement between the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Dutch pharmaceutical wholesaler OPG. The Workers' Party further agrees with the Government's proposal that the State sell itself down to a further 49 pst. to 34 pst. through a distribution sale at Oslo Stock Exchange by 2003. This is shown in the St.prp. No 46 that most industrial investors wanted a minimum holding of 51 p.m., but that this was contrary to the assumptions of a majority of the finance committee that led to the mandate of the Ministry of Social and Health. The Council of State has some opinion about a possible sale of 51 pst. of the shares of an industrial investor would have contributed to a larger profit per. the holding of shares other than that contained in the negotiated agreement? Further sale, 49 pst. of the shares, shall be completed by the end of 2003. If, on assumption, the stock market were to have a crack that would last over several years, this would probably mean that the sales gain would be less than expected. If we were to have such a situation, would the Council of State take the initiative to extend the sale period adopted by Stortinget today?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e1118	The President has some doubts as to whether the representative of Skogholt gets answers to his questions, as the Council of State has not met, but we have to wait and see.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e1121	I've registered it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e1126	Of course, I will not be able to answer on behalf of the Council of State! In the case of SV, I want to refer to the party note in the Innst. S. No 252 for 1997-98 for the sale of shares in Norsk Medisinaldepot AS, where the party opposed the sale of Norsk Medisinaldepot, considering that NMD provides an important State function linked to the general availability of medicinal products, and that that function should continue to be performed by the State and not by private operators in a market. SV takes note that a majority in Stortinget has opted for such a sale, and sees the proposition's proposal for a decision as a direct consequence of it. In the case of proposals to open up further sales of 49 pst. of the shares, SV will vote against it on the basis of the reasons given here. On the same grounds, SV will also vote against the proposal to authorise the Government to sell 100 pst. of the State’s shares in Norsk Medisinaldepot AS.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e1137	The representative of Skogholt raised some questions in his post that it might have been interesting to get some feedback on, while it might also be interesting to get some feedback on the two proposals that the Progress Party and the Right have promoted in this matter. I don't know how to do this, President, because the Council of State is not present – whether there is anyone else who can answer on behalf of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e1142	The President is in doubt. The government is represented in the hall with a government council; one gets to say it like that. The President sees no reason to postpone the meeting pending the arrival of the Council of State, and will have the meeting held. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e1147	President! I asked for the floor, but I don't think the president saw it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e1155	Under strong doubt, the President may have a feeling that a person is trying to pull the debate out now – are getting the floor from Are Næss.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e1158	I can reassure the President that there will be no mention of any fibre insert on my part in this matter. The Christian People's Party and the Center Party agree to the agreement on the sale of the shares in the Norwegian Medical Pot. With regard to the minority proposals from the Progress Party and the Right, and also the questions that the representative of Skogholt raised here today, I expect the Minister of Health to answer that question. [[The City Council had arrived here.]] I just want to mention that this matter has also been raised in St. pp. No 67 for 1998-99 Repriorities and additional appropriations for the 1999 government budget. The case rapporteur was considerate enough not to point out that the Ministry of Finance has committed a treatment in Stortinget. But there has been a correction in the letter to the Finance Committee of Storting on this point, which shows that the Ministry of Finance now has less faith in its prophetic gifts – and I think we should be pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e1167	It is my assessment of the present agreement that, both in terms of price and in terms of terms and conditions, it ensures in a good way the intentions and premises of the majority of the Stortinge have drawn up for the sale to be made here. When the Government, despite having been given an authorisation to sell, chose to present the matter to the Stortinget, it has to do with the possible commitment to the future freedom of action of the Stortinge. With regard to the question of what might have become the situation if you had had other premises from the majority of the Storting for sale, I find it a difficult question to answer on a standing footing, all the time the matter has been handled in accordance with the Storting's intentions. That's what's at stake. But it is my opinion that the present draft agreement involves a very good price from the state. The representative of Skogholt raised questions about further sales and the deadline. It is in my view that the time limit set in the agreement allows the State the necessary freedom of action to assess what is an appropriate time for sale, as regards the development of the company and the development of the market elsewhere. And I am quite convinced that the deadline is sufficiently liberal to ensure that the financial interests of the state can be properly safeguarded through this. When it comes to the question of whether that situation should arise that you get completely extraordinary conditions in the market, it is a completely hypothetical situation that I find difficult to assess here and now. The approval of this agreement by the majority implies that this deadline will also be approved, and it will then be binding on the State. That's the way it has to be. But I think, as I said, that the deadline is so liberal that there is ample room for ensuring the state's financial interests in an optimal way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e1178	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Initially, in my second post, let me make it clear that the Workers' Party fully supports the Government's proposal regarding the sale of the shares of Norsk Medisinaldepot AS. My question about what gain, what price, you could get if you had sold 51 pst. of the shares of a larger industrial investor, was probably a little bit considering the decisions we made earlier in the Stortinget. Because here it is actually assumed that the Dutch pharmaceutical wholesaler OPG could be sitting at 51 pst. of the shares after one has ever completed the sale of the shares of Norsk Medisinaldepot AS. I understand that the Council of State has serious problems responding to what you could have gained if you had had other prerequisites for the sale that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has made. As far as my second question is concerned, I am aware that we are today deciding that the Ministry must resell either by the end of 2003 or by the end of 2000. But I assume – even if we make such a decision – that the sale of the shares would mean that the State would suffer major financial losses, the State Council and the Government have authority and the opportunity to further the specific case for the Storting again. I hope, at least, that it will be assessed whether we would, on the assumption, have a development in the stock market that would result in significant losses for the State by reselling the other shares.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e1189	No more people have asked for the word – I'm sorry, Councillor Dagfinn Højbräten.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e1192	I want to confirm that the Government and the State as a party to this agreement will make an assessment of what is an optimal time for sale. But I have to insist that this must be done within the framework of the agreement that we will then enter into and commit ourselves to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e1197	Then there is no more who have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3449]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e1207	We then go to voting on case No. 1-3 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e1213	The President proposes that the appointment of the Minister for Children and the Family of the Minister for Equal Opportunities at the Stortinget meeting on 11 May 1999 be recorded in the minutes. – It is seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e1240	During the debate, Mr T. Nesvik presented two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an additional 49 per cent of the shares to be sold by the Government to 34 per cent of Norwegian Medical Pot AS by the end of 2000.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision authorises the Government to sell 100 per cent of its shares in Norsk Medisinaldepot A/S.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-27.ana.ud1860e1278	There is no record available.
