ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-2.ana.ud340e26	It is with joy and relief that I turn to the Storting today. A week ago, we had the decisive breakthrough in finding a political solution to the Kosovo conflict. Last night, representatives of NATO and Yugoslavia signed the Agreement on the withdrawal of Yugoslav forces from Kosovo. Today we can see that the withdrawal is underway. On this basis, following consultations with the Council of NATO, Secretary-General Solana announced two hours ago the stop of NATO bombing operations against Yugoslavia. The Security Council is now united in order to adopt a resolution to mandate the deployment of an international military peacekeeping force in Kosovo and an international civil presence. These events have created hope that the tragedy in Kosovo will now come to an end, and that the people of the Balkans – Europeans like ourselves – will again experience peace and prosperity. However, the experience with President Milosevic requires careful monitoring of and high level of accountability in the implementation of the agreement. The combination of power and diplomacy has led. The coherence and determination of NATO has been crucial. NATO's actions have not been a battle for territorial or economic interests, but to defend fundamental human rights and freedoms – our common European values. We owe the peace brokers Ahtisaari and Chernomyrdin, on behalf of the EU and Russia, great recognition for their diplomatic work, together with the US Secretary of State Talbott. It was these common struggles that led to the breakthrough of the international community's demands against President Milosevic in Belgrade last week. NATO will now give a clear signal for the deployment of the forces that will be the main focus of a peace operation of about 50,000 soldiers. The deployment of the International Peace Force will take place in the wake of the withdrawal of 40,000 Serbian troops from Kosovo. Yugoslavia has accepted a period of eleven days to complete the withdrawal. Once completed, NATO will adopt a final closure of the bomb operations. Thousands of NATO soldiers are already ready in Macedonia to move in to establish a secure environment. Hundreds of thousands of refugees and displaced persons from Kosovo will then be able to return to their homes under safe and dignified conditions. This means that NATO is no longer in armed conflict with Yugoslavia. This day is the beginning of a new era for Kosovo and for the Balkans. The war is over. Now the battle begins to win the peace. We must help the Albanians, Serbs and the other peoples in the Balkans on the difficult path towards lasting stability and reconciliation. Our aim must be to ensure that the Balkans, which has so often been the site of war and serious conflicts, share in the same stability and prosperity that we take for granted. The challenges are many and heavy. But we have a moral and political obligation to make an effort to heal the wounds of war. The thread of our further work must be what Nordahl Grieg expressed in the poem «To youth»: «If we create human dignity, we create peace.» Norway must cooperate with our allies and help militarily to secure peace. The Government aims at Norwegian participation in NATO's forces in Kosovo and will consult the bodies of Storting on this with the very first. Apart from NATO, the international force will consist of soldiers from Russia and other partner countries, including our Nordic neighbouring countries. For Norway, including Russia in the political and military efforts to secure a peace settlement has been an important concern. It was therefore an important step that was taken when the Russian Foreign Minister Ivanov met his American colleague Albright in Norway on 13 April. In my talks in Moscow a week ago, I highlighted strongly the great importance Norway attaches to Russia's work for peace in the Balkans. A central task for NATO and the international force will be to monitor the demilitarisation of the Kosovar Albanian geril UCK. In my meeting with UCK's political leader, Thaci, the other day, I stressed the need for guerrillas to follow up their commitments to disarmament. Norway will continue to be a significant contributor to humanitarian efforts in Kosovo and in the rest of the region. The government suggests as known in St.prp. No 88 for 1998-99, that new 350 million will be granted. kr to humanitarian action at the stage we are now entering. Later, the Government will return to Stortinget with a comprehensive approach to Norwegian involvement in the further reconstruction of the region, both democratically and economically. No country or population group will be excluded in this context. NATO has from the outset made it clear that we have not waged war against the Yugoslav people. We must now show that we are ready to give our handshake to the Serbian people as well, and help to develop an open democratic society and rebuild the country. Norway will be strongly involved through our OSCE Presidency in the implementation of the civil aspects of the peace process. These will focus on important tasks related to the construction of democracy, election monitoring and strengthening of civil society with a view to creating a multi-ethnic and democratic Kosovo. This morning I'm going to visit the Balkans. In my talks with the leaders of Macedonia, Albania and Bosnia, I want to make it clear that Norway will continue the significant peace exposure that we have demonstrated over many years – both politically, humanitarianly, militarily and through financial support for stabilisation of the region. I would also like to visit Norwegian military departments in Bosnia and Macedonia and the units of the Air Force in Italy, to highlight the considerable efforts of the Norwegian defence for peace in the Balkans. They deserve our honor. This is also done by the Norwegian voluntary organisations, which have from the outset made a great effort to alleviate the distress of those who have been affected by the conflicts in the region. I will highlight this during my meetings and visits to refugee camps in Albania and Macedonia. On Monday afternoon, I will meet with NATO Secretary-General Solana in Brussels to discuss the challenges we are now facing. At the same time, I would like to take the opportunity to express our thanks for his good leadership in a difficult situation, which I also did in a telephone conversation I had with him a few minutes ago. The impressions of the stay in the Balkans, and the conversations I want with NATO's management, will be an important part of the basis for the design of a comprehensive Norwegian approach to the work to ensure peace and stability in the Balkans. Finally, let me also express the government's thanks to the parties here in the Stortningen for the broad association and good cooperation in a demanding time when such support has been invaluable.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-2.ana.ud340e100	The President will now propose that a brief comment round be opened, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and possibly a final post by the Prime Minister. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-2.ana.ud340e105	It is as the Prime Minister said, a combination of military and diplomatic efforts that has resulted in an agreement on Kosovo. It is these agreements that will lay the basis for the peace and repatriation of Kosovo. This peace solution should only be the beginning at the end of this decade of wars and sufferings in the former Yugoslavia. A myth that's about to get attached to a lot of people is that this is an area that's doomed to conflict and local wars. I think it's a dangerous myth, because history shows us that the wars that the Balkans have had are largely carried out by the great powers that have fought over this part of Europe. This last decade is the exception, so it's important that we help ensure that this is also an exception in time. The former Yugoslavia is not an area characterized by an infinite and unbreakable history of local conflicts. The demands of the international community and NATO are now in the process of being implemented. These are the same requirements that emerged from the Rambouillet proposal, which NATO has stood up to, and which the United Nations has also been behind. It is a tragic situation that one had to go through this suffering in Serbia and Kosovo in order to achieve exactly what was on the table in mid-March this year. That's why it's a successful action that's been done, but it's still a situation without masters, but mostly with losers in all parts of the area. There is also a very difficult peace to build, because we must avoid making the same mistake that has been made earlier in the Balkans, where we have tried to resolve each conflict separately. Now it's important that we manage to resolve conflicts in context. There are over three million people fleeing this area. Many of them are from Kosovo, but many also belong to other parts of this area. Without seeing this context, we may be at risk of creating new conflicts. In the repatriation, of course, Kosovo should be at the centre at first, because the situation is most acute. But if we forget the others, there are seeds sown for new conflicts. Macedonia has taken a great deal of responsibility during this conflict and also needs assistance after the conflict is over. Montenegro, which has lived on the brink of civil war and coup d'état, and where the situation is hardly better once this agreement has been concluded. Montenegro also needs international cooperation. This is also what Serbia does, with the complications they have with a leader like Milosevic, who is accused of violating international law. Nevertheless, it is important that we find a way to cooperate with Serbia, which means that we can support those who need the most help, without having a policy that supports the leadership of this country. But we can't let the many refugees and the many who trust because of this war, where completely basic service is gone, meet the winter in such a situation. We need to figure out an effort that will also help these. It is important that Norway engages in this cooperation on the basis of the concept of worksharing. The most important thing is not the Norwegian flag in each part of this area but the result. That is why we should also ensure that both military and civil efforts, as far as advice is concerned, are part of international coordination and that we take responsibility where there is a greater need for it, after an overall assessment. For us too, Kosovo will of course be the primary. But if the need is to be greater elsewhere, and others from a total division of labour can make a better effort in Kosovo, we think it is important that we take responsibility where the international community finds that it is the most necessary. This should be the guideline, both for civil and military efforts. Although we are now very close to an agreement, and right now only the decision of the Security Council is missing – perhaps it is also in place right now – we should, as the Prime Minister has also pointed out, be offered a setback, even during the 10-11-day process of withdrawal from Kosovo. That's why it's right that the military pressure is there, but at the same time we're working to ensure that it doesn't have to be used.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-2.ana.ud340e120	The Group of the Progressive Party joins in the joy and relief expressed by the Prime Minister above the developments that have now taken place. We also hope for the follow-up of the Security Council and that what is in the agreement could be implemented. However, it is also, I think, in its place to mention that we must not be too over-optimistic so early in this process, because of course the danger of setbacks and serious problems will also be there. The experience with the promises and signatures of President Milosevic is not very good. Therefore, it is important that this be followed up and that the sustained pressure that has been maintained should it prove possible that Milosevic will not implement what is promised this time either. I agree with what has been said with regard to the wish that Norway should contribute to the reconstruction of Kosovo. It is of course important to get moving quickly so that refugees can return to Kosovo and contribute to the reconstruction of the country. We should contribute, in particular, with financial resources and with goods and services that may be provided in this work, and support the refugees we now expect to return to participate in the reconstruction process. The fact that there are now significant plans for reconstruction is also something we agree to. But I would like to add that a good deal of demands must be made especially towards Serbia. We expect the charges of the war criminal court to be maintained, and that the work of bringing those responsible to account for what has happened will also be reinforced and not forgotten in the rush that can now easily break, as there are good opportunities for peace. For the future, you can't just put a line over what's happened. You also have to think about it. What Haakon Blankenborg and the Prime Minister said about democracy building in Kosovo is important. But it is equally important to work for democracy building in Serbia. The main reason for what has happened lies in the conditions and leadership that are there. It's the fixed line from NATO, primarily under the leadership of the United States, that's why you've now come to where you are, where there can be hope of lasting peace and tolerance. However, we would like to stress the importance of helping to build up Kosovo in the first place. And we have a great deal of understanding of the demands made by the top leaders of other countries in terms of assistance and reconstruction also by Serbia. There is now a need to call for democratic development there too. But we agree that Norway should of course be involved. First of all, we now think that we need to focus on the reconstruction and assistance of Kosovo, Macedonia and Montenegro, and that we need to put in place diplomatic forces in order to have a governance system in Serbia which means that in the short term we do not have to be anxious for something to happen again.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-2.ana.ud340e133	‘The war is over. Now the struggle for peace begins," said the Prime Minister. And with that, it is more than clear that we are faced with a comprehensive construction of major tasks, major challenges, reconstruction of infrastructure, restoration of civil structures, economic stabilisation, democratic stabilisation, and not least that of involving Yugoslavia in an international network, thus providing impetus that can stabilise and secure the country's democratic and economic development. The Prime Minister stressed that a reconstruction plan must apply regionally. He said, ‘No country or group of people will be excluded in this context.’ I think it's an important underlining in a day like this, where we're glad that the strategy that was put in place led to the result that we're seeing today. I believe that just such an attitude, involving all countries in the region in the construction work to be carried out, will be the surest guarantee that the stability that you want, the prevention of ethnic tensions once again turning out and developing into conflicts, goes through drawing all the countries in the region and all the peoples, in any case, into this repatriation work. I see that a debate has begun on who will be included in the repatriation work and the financial resources that are now being put at the disposal of the repatriation work. I think it is important to establish that refugees have the same basic need, regardless of ethnicity, and that this may have to indicate the main guideline for the humanitarian aid that is now being established. Bombed, burned houses in Pristina must go in front of bombed bridges otherwise in Serbia. So, as Hagen's representative pointed out, Milosevic is sued for the war criminal court, so some support for his regime is not relevant. But the war has not been waged, as the Prime Minister said, against the Yugoslav people. That is why the principles of assistance that the Prime Minister drew up are so important, and that can, of course, lead us into difficult balances with the desire to support democratic development in the country. As the Prime Minister also said, there has been excellent cooperation between big business and government in this difficult but important matter. It has been significant and valuable in such a context. I think it is a general perception that the Government has managed this difficult conflict in a very good way, both in terms of the political discretion exercised, and also in relation to the desire of the Stortinge at all times, to be briefed on important developments in the war. I therefore think it is in place here to express my thanks to the Government for the work that has been done, and I also support myself until the Prime Minister said about a thank you to the opposition parties in the Grand Duchy for the positive contribution that one has been able to stand together in the very difficult balances that have been necessary during this conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-2.ana.ud340e152	It is also up to me to join the joy expressed earlier that the conflict is now over the armed phase – we hoped it was after last week. We saw a setback, but now it must be possible to let go of the joy that the war has ended. But I readily agree with those who have said that new setbacks can come. We're going to go into a time when the difficulties are going to be very many, and then the lesson that this crisis that other things have given us, namely, that being together in the NATO circle, is the very core. The fact that NATO has also had the ability to stick together to the last detail and follow what was planned is also very important. This is an area where there has been a great deal of lies, deferrals, deceptions and attempts to exploit unresolved small issues, and therefore it is very important that agreements are followed to the minimum level of detail. So we are now going into a new phase, and I want to say that I am very pleased that NATO's desire and the demand to be at the heart of the peace force to be deployed in Kosovo will also be a reality. Here is the key to the Albanian people to dry up their return to their future in Kosovo. And it's precisely that this strength is the core, which is also the key to the Albanian Government's drying up to follow the agreements that have been concluded and which require disarmament. I think it's very important that we stay right at this point. In terms of reconstruction, it is obvious, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in the previous statement, that there is more than enough here for everyone involved. It's a huge task, and it's important that it's carried out in a coordinated and proper way. I readily agree with the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee on this point. Kosovo is the core, but countries such as Montenegro, Macedonia and Albania are important. What we also need to see in the islands is that we have not fully thought through – it should just be lacking that it has already been done – how Serbia should be handled. Serbia is a country led by a war criminal-enforced president. And when we're talking about democratization of Serbia, let's not forget that this leader is chosen by the Serbian people, and that is a lot of the problem. It is important to reach out and get the whole of the Balkans into a new phase, but at the same time we are facing a real and quite profound problem. I think it might help to distinguish between relief and reconstruction, because it's clear that all people in need, refugees, have a right to help. How we looked into the reconstruction phase can actually become a more difficult issue, but I see it as obvious, for the sake of countries like Bulgaria and Romania, that it must also be important to go in and help clear up the Danube, simply to let trade go from these countries back to Western Europe. There is no unchallenging issue now to put forward a thoughtful policy towards Serbia. We hope that we will soon have a proposal for Norwegian participation to decide on, because I think it is important, as the representative of Blankenborg said, that we coordinate and do the job where we can best benefit ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-2.ana.ud340e169	: The stoppage message in the Kosovo war acts is being met with great relief throughout the international community. For those countries and politicians who have supported NATO's actions in Kosovo too, the war has been a great burden. However, after over two months of military pressure, Milosevic has had to bow to the demands of international society, there is little reason to triumph, until the human and political costs have been too great. As the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee said, in this conflict there are no masters. It is tragic in many ways that so extensive military action has been necessary to stop the extensive ethnic cleansing that Milosevic had proposed. The experience of the Kosovo conflict is animal-bought for all. And when we are now discussing the future of NATO on the basis of the new strategic concept, the experience of the Kosovo war will also be a dramatic back ground. June 10 will be standing as a brand day. However, the day also marks the transition to a new, demanding phase of development in the Balkans. The struggle to win peace in the Balkans is also, as the Prime Minister said, a demanding challenge, not only for the international community as such, but also for NATO. Hopefully, a UN Security Council resolution will now provide the basis for further developments in international law, firstly the deployment of the KFOR security force, which will ensure a safe return of Kosovo Albanians to Kosovo and the establishment of a civil presence in the region, and, next time, the reconstruction of the region following the major acts of war. These are issues to which the Storting will come back in many contexts; it is true that the Kosovo issue will be on the agenda of the Storing for a very long time to come. The Prime Minister announced Norwegian contributions and Norwegian participation both in terms of the security force and in terms of efforts to rebuild the region. I feel confident that the Government will have broad support both in terms of participation in the Kosovo Security Force and in terms of economic and other contributions to the reconstruction of this region. There is reason to note that there is an enormous diplomatic effort behind the peace-making and the cessation of the acts of war that we have now seen. In this connection, there is reason to welcome Russia's re-entry to the diplomatic arena. It is worth noting that Russia's and Chernobyl's efforts in the diplomatic work around Kosovo have been absolutely crucial for the end of the war action, hopefully, to come to an end. Today we will all rejoice that what many have perceived as a nightmare is now over. But as the Prime Minister also stated, tomorrow's challenges are also such that they will require great effort from all of us, not least from the Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-2.ana.ud340e184	I don't know if it's possible for me to pass over the previous speeches in the relief of the fact that it looks like the war in Kosovo and in the Balkans is over, but I think maybe. And it's not because this case has been particularly difficult for some of us, but because we've been in a situation of war and humanitarian disaster in Europe in 1999. And the biggest cost of this has been paid by the Kosovar Albanians and the people of the Balkans themselves. Now it's a major sign of peace. There may be setbacks, we must be prepared for that, but not big enough setbacks, in the opinion of SV, to leave the main track. Now it's the end of NATO's bombing, and it must be the end of ethnic cleansing. It is a UN mandate for a peacekeeping force right around the corner, and peace must be built. There is now a broad uprising in the Great Britain – I assume that the Prime Minister and the Government are aware of this – in order for the reconstruction of peace to include all ethnic groups. Of course, the job is the largest in Kosovo. The job that needs to be done first of all is, of course, to ensure the hundreds of thousands of refugees in the neighbourhoods the possibility of roofing over their heads before winter. But it's equally essential to have all the thoughts in your head at the same time. Here you have to add up to a reconstruction work that includes all groups. It will be a multi-ethnic society in Kosovo and throughout the Balkans. And especially because there are losers in this war, it is important to keep a clear distinction between Milosevic and the Serbian people. It's not easy because you have a elected president who's wanted for war crimes. Then it is essential that it is done in such a way that you have just the opportunity to strengthen the opposition that has always been there against Milosevic, but that has been suppressed. That is why we must be particularly vigilant about this, because it can ensure peace and stability in the long term. It can't be that the wallet is open when it comes to war, and greed is in place when it comes to peace building. I also perceive that there is a broad consensus in Stortinget. And then it's up to us to follow up together when it comes to concrete appropriations and deposits, and it's just the time ahead that will show. There is now also a great deal of clearing work ahead of us in Kosovo. There are mines laid out, and the security of the refugees from being able to return depends on the removal of the mines. There is a great responsibility for the Serbian forces to show where they are, so that the clearing job can be done. But it is also the case that there are remnants after NATO's war in Kosovo and the rest of the Balkans. There are used class bombs that can now also be at risk, and it is very important that NATO release the information that is needed, and contribute to that cleanup job itself. There is also a major environmental clean-up job to be done. Norway has competence here. We're going to have to use it and insert it. Finally, there will be commitments in Europe for many years to be involved in building peace in the Balkans. The basic thing must be that there is coherence in the attitude we have at home in relation to what we want to achieve in Kosovo and in the rest of the Balkans, namely that it is possible for people with different ethnic backgrounds to live in peaceful coexistence. There will always be some power politicians who want to inflate and magnify what must lie in the possibility of conflict between people – not for the benefit of most people, but for the gain of their own power and prosperity. It is the lesson that all politicians in all European countries, including Norway — yes, in all countries around the world — must take with them and feel responsibility for every day.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-2.ana.ud340e201	It is not difficult to share and express the joy that everyone has already expressed today. We are probably in many ways today really where we last weekend hope we were when the Foreign Minister made his statement on Monday, but which unfortunately we were not, because one got a certain postponement at the end of the negotiations. At the same time, the situation was that Monday's presentation and debate were well on the way as a prerequisite that in a few days we would get to where we have come today. As many have said, and as the Prime Minister has said several times, the important thing now is to win the peace. And then it's central to highlighting the international responsibility associated with having a starting point in a UN mandate for further work, and that it's a task that NATO, the EU, the OSCE, Russia and the partner countries must jointly enter and take. We have to wait, and expect that many will have impatience in view of seeing results in the continuation, and that is probably an impatience that one should want in many ways in relation to, among other things. the return of refugees. At the same time, we need to be prepared to be patient, because it will obviously take time for all the refugees to return, and then it will take years for the international community to be able to retreat and say that now it is up to the people and countries in the region to stand for the further development. The experience of Bosnia has most certainly shown that. Another thing we also need to be prepared for is what we will be able to discover inside Kosovo when we have the opportunity to come back. It could easily be things that exceed the fantasies that you have after all, compared to things that have happened that are cruel. The implementation of the withdrawal and deployment of international forces is well what now has to be on the agenda first, and also through the OSCE to bring in a more civil and non-military presence as well. As regards emergency aid and humanitarian aid, there is something that needs to be addressed to everyone, wherever they may be, whether it is in Kosovo, in Serbia, in Montenegro, in Macedonia and in Bosnia. Here there will be no limit to the effort. I would like to underline what Jan Petersen said about the exact relationship between emergency aid and humanitarian aid on the one hand, and that of reconstruction on the other. There might be a little bit of other issues to take inwards. As for what will happen after emergency aid and humanitarian aid, it is important to start planning, and to prepare for further work. But at the same time, you have to wait until you can say for sure what to do. You can't do everything at the same time. But it is quite clear that there is a great deal of consensus in the international community that a reconstruction plan for the area that some have chosen to call a Marshall Plan must be implemented. And this plan must initially not exclude anyone, and in principle it will also apply to Serbia. With regard to Serbia in concrete terms, it is important to support the democratic forces, but at the same time to avoid supporting the Milosevic regime. I think I just want to say it so clearly that how to find the balance point here, at least I'm not prepared to give any direct answer to today. And since I'm the last person to speak before the Prime Minister gets a closing post, I'm told that what has been the situation throughout this conflict, and which is also very clearly expressed today, is that the consensus in the Stortinget has been marked and strong, and that the disagreement has been linked to more limited issues.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-2.ana.ud340e222	This round has naturally been marked by joy and relief from the messages we have received today, but also by the fact that we now have to look forward and look at the challenges we face. And they'll be right there. It's quite right, as many people have said, that there will be a risk of setback, and I think we will be able to experience that in the days to come. We are facing major tasks both in terms of humanitarian contributions, military contributions, civil contributions, and not least in terms of long-term reconstruction. I note that there is a broad consensus in Stortinget that Norway has to participate in all these areas when it comes to the work to alleviate distress and to create stability. I agree with the Haakon Blankenborg Labour Party that Norway must take responsibility where we are most needed. Therefore, the Government will see our military contributions to SFOR and KFOR in the context, also because there are naturally limits to Norway’s capacity. I can also say that the Government is already discussing what and how Norway can contribute. But here we are totally dependent on consultations and coordination in NATO, in the OSCE and in other contexts. Therefore, it is not possible today to present a concrete comprehensive picture of the Norwegian effort in the future, but we will also present it to the Stortinget as soon as possible. I note that there is a broad consensus in Stortinget that our help should go to all the peoples who have been hit in the Balkans. Finally, let me just say that today's debate is also a good sign of continued broad political agreement on Norwegian Balkan policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-2.ana.ud340e236	The debate on the presentation is thus closed. The President will propose that the statement by the Prime Minister on the Kosovo peace agreement be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
