ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e31	Three permit applications are available: by the Delegation of the European Parliament to the EFTA Parliamentary Committee and the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee, signed by the Head of the Delegation, the Grand Representative of Haakon Blankenborg. The application concerns leave on days 13 and 14 December to attend the EFTA Ministerial Meeting in Geneva of the representatives of Day Danielsen, Grete Knudsen, Morten Lund, Brother Yngve Rahm, Siri Frost Sterri and Haakon Blankenborg from the representative of Ane Sofie Tmärås on welfare leave from 13 December to 16 December from the representative of Terje Knudsen on welfare leave from 15 December to 21 December These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the Christian People's Party's first alternate of the Telemark County, Vivian Knarvik Bugge, there is an application to be exempted from meeting under the representative Brother Yngve Rahm's leave of 13 and 14 December due to illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave:For Hordaland County: Gard Folkvord and Terje SøviknesFor Uppland County: Kjell Ivar FossnesFor Oslo: Sissel Daily for Telemark County: Jens Arnfinn BrödsjømoenFor Sør-Trøndelag County: Bjørg Bruset and Michael MomyrFor Østfold County: Morten Olsen3. Michael Momyr is elected to the Lamentations for the time he meets the representative Siri Frost Sterri.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e125	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today and tomorrow – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e130	I suggest Bjarne Håkon Hanssen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e135	Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is unanimously elected president of Stortinget’s meetings today and tomorrow. The representative of Øyvind Vaksdal will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e140	I would like, on behalf of the representatives of Vidar Kleppe, Terje Knudsen, Harald T. Nesvik, Hans Røsjorde and myself, to put forward proposals to amend the Act on Occupational Indemnity Insurance in such a way that the term ‘observed’ is used in this provision in a way that is similar to that of finding damages under the Law on Indemnity Compensation, in relation to soldiers under NATO-led operations abroad and former UN soldiers.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e145	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the Storting should depart from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure and vote after each case. – No objections have been raised to this proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e159	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 50 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Working Party 35 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Centre Party and the Left 10 minutes each, the Socialist Left Party and the Representative Bastesen 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each group of parties and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e170	The new budgetary system means that there is less room for major changes within the budgets of each department when they are dealt with in the expert committees after the financial committee has established a framework by means of the budgetary agreement concluded earlier in the autumn between the Government Parties and the Workers' Party. Nevertheless, it has been possible to bring about some changes and to highlight some important priorities within the defined frameworks within which the Committee has operated. Mostly, and with some reservations, it can be said that both the Ministry of Oil and Energy budget and the Ministry of the Environment budget indicate that the main lines of the policy pursued in these areas in the 1990s are continuing. For example, we see that it is added up to a continued growth in oil production. It is difficult to read directly from the national budget and budget figures on the number of cases involved, but it is estimated that oil production this year is above 2.9 million barrels per year. daily, with the next year adding up to a production of up to 3.5 million barrels per day. 24 hours. This means that even if a production regulation of 200,000 barrels is introduced, we are talking about a rather sharp increase in total oil production. It also means that the country will have significantly increased oil revenues, especially if the oil price remains. It is budgeted with net oil revenue — net cash flow from the petroleum activity to the country — of DKK 85 billion. Then an oil price of 125 kroner has been taken into account, but at present it is over 200 kroner, so that if such a high oil price persists over the next year, we are talking about significantly more than 100 billion kroner in net income to the state. So when we talk about the oil and energy department's budget and both revenue and expenditure in terms of DIE – the state's direct involvement – we talk about big money, big revenues to the state treasury. There is a broad majority in the Committee on the Main Tacks and Decisions taken in relation to the EEAS, its oil activity and its investments. It is also gratifying to see that the Government is now following up the measures called for by a large majority in the spring in terms of improving the conditions of the petroleum industry. The government has proposed and received a majority for a lower CO2 tax, and there is also a reduction in the production charge. We wanted something to happen faster and more field-wise to get concrete projects, but things still go in the right direction. It will also, hopefully, contribute to increased activity in the supplier industry, and thus dampen the fall, which will probably come in any case within this business. The working party also supports the escalation of appropriations for renewable energy sources and alternative energy sources. We think it's important to bet on it. However, we're concerned that it seems to go a little bit slower with this escalation than originally assumed. The Committee is now examining the recent ageing of 1999 and it appears that the 1999 allocation to alternative energy sources, initially of 184 million. kr, proposed to be set to zero by the Government. This year, therefore, there is not a single penny allocated to alternative energy sources, because it has not been possible to use up the allocation that was granted – it has been difficult to spend the money from 1998 and has been disposed of in 1999. There is no one on the Stortinget who can overestimate the government's assessment there, but this is an expression that it is obviously somewhat more difficult than the Government saw in itself to get activity within alternative energy sources. We're sorry about that. So the budget is zero for this year, yet there is a significant allocation for next year. It will to some extent cover the commitment mandates given for this year. This means, on the other hand, that overall over 1999 and 2000 there will be significantly lower efforts for alternative energy than originally foreseen. There is a change in relation to the agreement that has taken place within the framework, and that is that INTSOK – the organisation to contribute to the internationalisation of the Norwegian supplier industry – receives an increase of 5 million. kr. That is what we believe is important as a contribution to making the Norwegian supplier industry and Norwegian oil industry less dependent on developments on Norwegian soil, and having greater opportunities to participate in the development of other countries’ sockets. We see that as a clearly positive thing. Otherwise, we find that the high oil price means that the prospects for the petroleum industry are obviously better now than they were a year ago, or as late as in ours. With regard to the Ministry of the Environment’s budget, there is also agreement on the broad lines and all the main elements. But there have also been some changes, and some political priorities are reflected in the consideration of the budget. Overall, there's a majority to re-prioritize $12 million. kr within the limits laid down. Among other things, there is more money for cultural memory protection. It's an area that many people have neglected over several years, and that obviously needs an increased investment. It is unworthy for Norway as a cultural nation that we allow our cultural memories, such as stave churches and other older buildings, to lapse. We protect and peace them, but we are unable to take care of them. Therefore, there is a need for an obvious escalation in this area. It is also said clearly by the Government that there is too little effort. Nevertheless, efforts were not selected, while the majority of Stortinget has found room for an increase of 7.2 million through the agreement between the centre parties and the Workers' Party. kr – e.g. for regional cultural memory measures, there is an increase of 24 pst. So even though there's still too little money, there's a significant increase in some items, and you're going in the right direction when it comes to investing more in cultural memory protection. We're happy about that. In addition, there is a majority in the Committee to call for a stepping-up plan for cultural memory protection, so that we can get better out of the years ahead than has been the case up to now. There is also a great deal of agreement to increase the appropriations for predatory research by 2 million. kr, and it is based on the recognition that there is an embedded conflict in today’s predatory policy between predators and buffalo. Increased knowledge can reduce this conflict, and we are pleased that it has been possible to increase funding for this. There's also something about the rights of all people, because we believe that not least the coastal zone is an area where we now see an undermining of the rights of all people. In principle, there were many who had wanted a greater stake there, but there is at least some money set aside for legal assistance to the municipalities, and there is also a majority in the committee who express support for the Government's efforts to inculcate the freedom of exemption in the 100-meter belt, which is about to undermine the entire beach law and the rights of all people in the beach zone. The working party wants to go further. We would like to cancel the derogation that has obviously been used on the part of the municipalities in violation of their intentions. And it's urgent to do something, because as long as the exemption is there, as it is today, and used as today, we undermine one of the greatest and finest values in Norway, namely access to the beach zone for the public. With regard to what is our most serious environmental problem, the greenhouse effect, we have recently received new figures and new evidence that there is a real, imminent risk of global warming as a result of anthropogenic emissions, and that it is therefore right to act. We believe it is wrong for the Government that it does not actively contribute to establishing an energy policy and an environmental policy where Norway makes itself less dependent on coal power imports. Norway is now in normal years dependent on imports such as 7 TWh. According to the Government’s Energy Communication, this import need will only increase. Although one with all its investment in alternative energy succeeds in producing 5 TWh wind power and bioenergy, according to the Government, our import needs will nevertheless grow significantly beyond the next century. Obviously, this is not a matter of concern, but it is obvious that Norwegian power supply is increasingly based on imported power. It is environmentally hostile, and it is also poor industrial and industrial policy. We're sorry the government adds up to it. We believe that this is a bad environmental policy, and believe that the Government should be more concerned about strengthening domestic power supplies, and not least helping to put in place a Nordic, and then a European and global system for CO2 allowances. It'll get the price of imported force. It will make it more difficult for coal power to compete out clean Norwegian energy and be an important environmental contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e198	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e201	In the budget agreement between the Government and the Workers' Party, we now see that the Workers' Party is in favour of a massive increase in the electricity charge. So now the Workers' Party is very much in favour of the fee increase that they were very, very opposed last year. I therefore find reason to ask the representative Stoltenberg what has changed so radically in one year, since the party has turned completely on this charge question. We have also received signals that the Workers' Party will be involved in supporting the Government in introducing a two-priced electricity system for households. Here you want to put in place a system similar to what we had some years ago, where you paid one price for normal consumption and a higher price for excess consumption, as it was then called. However, the difference is that in the past it was the individual household that even set the limit on what was normal consumption and over-consumption. What is now in the cards is that the authorities, the Storting and the Government decide what is the right consumption for each household. Now, what is the right consumption in Finnmark, in Rogaland or, for that matter, in Oslo is to be determined centrally, despite the climate differences we have. And if you use more than the central government rules, you have to pay for it. Will the representative Stoltenberg and the Workers' Party really be involved in such a detailed management system? Does the representative Stoltenberg not see that this is going backwards into the future?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e208	In the case of two-price systems, I just want to say that what we've asked for is a review and investigation of this. We will discuss this when it is available, and therefore I will not go further into a debate on the two-price system itself. There are arguments for, and there are arguments against, and then we have to weigh them against each other when we get a better decision-making basis. On the other hand, as far as the electricity charge is concerned, I would first of all like to say that I would not call 2.5 cents dramatic. It's an increase. Secondly, the Workers' Party has never been in principle against taxes; on the contrary, through a long political life, we have had a sense of it in many areas, including electricity. We have voted in favour and introduced an electricity tax there in the past. When we rejected it last year, it was due, among other things, to last year there was an imminent risk that we would lose control of the price and cost growth. We were afraid of the interest rates, and we were afraid of the whole situation of the Norwegian competitive industry because there were problems with pressure in the Norwegian economy. That pressure is less present now. We are less likely to lose control of the price and cost growth, and therefore the problems associated with the electricity charge are less today than they were last year. I would also like to add that the Workers' Party has a sober view of the effects of an increased electricity charge. To the extent that you believe in the energy investigation and the Government's energy report, it is that if we are to stabilise the energy consumption, we have to take an estimated 12 times the electricity charge, and the Workers' Party does not intend to do so. That means that, like the government, we're seeing a growth in energy consumption and electricity consumption in the future, and then we're back to the main problem, that's the government's putting up to cover it by increasing imports. What we see in the long run is a poor solution, especially when imports come from significantly more polluting energy sources than what we can get by covering it domestically.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e217	I appreciate the Workers' Party's support for the increased electricity charge. We think that's nice, after the party said no last year. Then to cultural memory protection. The representative Stoltenberg said that the government has not increased its efforts in its proposal. That's wrong. In the government's proposal, there was an increase of more than 5 million. kr for cultural memory protection, and in addition we further increased it by between 7 and 8 million. the agreement signed by the representative of Stoltenberg in the Committee. Furthermore, the representative, Stoltenberg, says that the government is unable to use up the funds allocated by the Stortinget for an additional and alternative energy. It's true that all the money isn't paid out, but that doesn't necessarily mean they're not disposed of. Commitments have been made for almost the entire amount allocated for 1999. That being said, there is reason to review both guidelines for the grant schemes and to consider whether other forms of grant schemes may be involved. These are long-term projects which may require both concession treatment and long construction time. The question is whether there should be a look at fund schemes or a greater degree of commitment appropriations rather than direct appropriations. I feel confident that the department has this under assessment. So said the representative Stoltenberg that it is important to have a strategy to meet the climate challenges, and that the government there is completely decapitated, because it is betting on the import of coal power. I would like to challenge the representative Stoltenberg at the Workers' Party's position on the construction of gas power plants. There's the party's point of view. Despite the fact that we do not have an allowance trading system in place, despite the fact that the Kyoto Protocol has not been ratified, the Workers' Party still insists on building gas power plants with old technology. I would ask the representative, Mr Stoltenberg, to answer this in more detail.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e228	First of all, alternative energy efforts. It was the government that made a very big point that you had to grant 184 million. kr to alternative energy, to bio, windmills, heat pumps and everything we all are for. It was a main message. So it turned out first in the revision that you had to cut 70 million. And then we take the remainder, 114 million. kr, now in the ejaculation. This year, it is set at NOK 0 for alternative energy. Then the government has a long explanation that it is difficult, you have to make commitments and it takes time and so on, but the government should have thought of that before they asked the Stortinget to grant 184 million. NOK nine months ago – that’s the point – especially in spring when they had a review of the same budget lines, because it’s the government that has that competence, and not the Storting. It is absolutely right to turn it into a warrant for commitments. But I also expect the representative Rise to realize that if you do something this year, give it as a commitment mandate to the next year, and then burden the appropriations next year, overall over the two years, it is a significantly less effort on alternative energy than what was originally intended. That's what we're sorry for, because there'll be less money for this purpose. Obviously, you see that, but you can't do anything about it. In terms of gas power, our position is that we have opened up the construction of gas power plants in Norway, preferably with CO2-free technology, but also with conventional technology, because we believe it is significantly better than the government's option, namely increasing imports of coal power, because that's what the government is proposing. It is quite unambiguous to add to the growth in electricity consumption. It's in the energy message. You're not close to making plans to cover this with alternative energy. Even if you succeed fully with windmills and all that's in there, it's 5 TWh, and so it's going to increase imports. If possible, it is the worst of all options. We're going to bet more on CO2-free gas power, and that was actually something we got a majority in favour of together with the Right, and we're sorry that the Government doesn't bet on it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e237	Stoltenberg makes a big point that a total of EUR 0 has been allocated to energy sources and new energy sources in 1999. I agree with that – I agree that there can be questions about both the allocation practices, the size of the allocation, the criteria and not least the lack of follow-up on what we have actually allocated. Nevertheless, the Labour Party proposes to increase the allocation of renewable energy sources from this year to next year by almost 100 million. kr. At the same time, the Workers' Party is cutting the allocation for energy research by 15 million. kr. Is this expression of the real priority that Stoltenberg pointed to in the budget agreement with the central parties, increasing the appropriations for an increase of almost 100 million. kr.? There is probably no budget line which, as a percentage, increases as much as the allocation of energy sources and new sources of energy, while at the same time cutting the research budget by 15 million. kr. It's a cut that's going to sting. The paradox is that there is a link between what we do on the research side in stimulating the research environments to produce new technologies and new results that enable us to realise the new energy sources, and what we are willing to do if there are windmill projects, natural gas or bioenergy. Is this an expression of the real priority, and how will Stoltenberg explain that, on the one hand, the allocation of funds to some is greatly increased, while cutting research appropriations?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e244	First, the question of why the Workers’ Party supports an increase in the allocation of 100 million new energy sources and alternative energy sources. kr. We do that because we're in favour of renewable energy sources. We want more of that, and hope that state support can help us get more of that. When the government, after first zeroing the appropriations this year and saying that they have not been able to spend the money, but is based on using them as a commitment authority in recent years, and still comes back to Stortinget and asks for an escalation for 2000, I have to expect the government to have an overview and significantly better overview than it had last year of how much money you are able to spend – and that you are then able to spend that money. If not, the government has a serious problem. If you make two consecutive years a big point of increasing the allocation in these areas, and then you have to zero the allocation this year and possibly cut or zero the next year, the government has kind of really made the budgetary system a parody, because then you're just doing this for token money. You give more money, and then as the budget year approaches the end, you cut it down to 0 anyway. So that's a good question the representative Sanner has. But we have, in reverence and respect for the Government and the departments, based on the fact that the information they've come with is correct, and that they've now carefully thought about whether they're able to spend the money they're asking the Storting grant, which they obviously hadn't done last year. And that error shouldn't repeat itself. When it comes to why we cut research, it's not certain that there's any priority area for the Workers' Party to cut off energy research. But it's just that in a compromise, you don't have room for everything. This was part of a big package where there were pluses and minuses, and one of the areas hit by cuts was energy research.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e255	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e259	In its draft budget, the government made a huge effort to support investment and the operation of new renewable energy sources, which is also in line with the intentions of the Energy Communication, to be addressed by the Stortinge in the autumn. In order to finance this, and to limit the increase in electricity consumption, the Government also proposed a sharp increase in the electricity charge. Unfortunately, through the budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party, the Government has been able to do so. It's based on this reason to ask some questions about where we want to go in the energy policy context. Why in the world will the energy storm power Norway, which produces 3,000 TWh annually in the form of oil, gas and power, inject hundreds of millions of fresh tax and tax crowns into wind power projects and similar ones, which at least in the foreseeable future will not be able to stand on its own economic footing? Norway is currently sitting on enormous energy resources. We have 30 pst. of the total European hydropower production, we have 45 pst. of the gas reserves and 75 pst. of oil reserves. We're overflowing with energy. But unfortunately, we haven't, at least not so far, had the political power in this room to use our vast resources in a sensible way that benefits the entire population and business. Year after year, we have had to import power, for example. from highly polluting coal-fired power plants in Denmark. Now, however, it seems to be going a little better in the current year, but with the expected growth we have in consumption, we will also have to import power in the foreseeable future – despite the huge and very costly investment of the Government in alternative energy. This initiative does not take place in short or in good faith, which the representative Stoltenberg has also been involved in. The Progress Party will therefore not be involved in this costly airlock that will give us nothing but huge transfers to the State budget for many, many years to come. We would rather use some of the huge gas resources we have to value in Norway, including power generation. Therefore, it is my hope that the Stortinget during the processing of the energy message shows the power of action and facilitates the conditions for those who want to expand gas power plants in Norway. Our oil industry has been in a difficult period in the current year, for example. as a result of low oil prices. This has caused major problems for the supplier industry, with word-dried droughts, which have all too often resulted in lay-offs and redundancies. Unfortunately, this large process of conversion has also led to a fragmentation of environments of competence that has taken decades to build up. The Progress Party has on several occasions pointed out the need for changes in the framework conditions for the oil sector which can make industry profitable, even at low oil prices. I took this up with the Council of State early in the day and got assurances that this took a very serious one, and that one would come back with changes in the revised national budget. In meetings with LO Industry, Norway’s Shipowners’ Association, OLF, Norret and TBL, we received clear signals about what was going to happen to mitigate the crisis in the industry. Get rid of the gross taxes, the CO2 tax and the production tax, they said. Not surprisingly, there were no changes in the revised, only signals that one would come back with proposals for a gradual phasing-out of the production fee in the context of the harvest budget. The Progress Party made proposals in the context of the review of the removal of the CO2 tax from 1 July 1999 and the rapid phasing-out of the production fee. All the other parties in this Chamber voted against these proposals. Of course, our proposals would not prevent the serious crisis that the industry was in, but they would have provided a far softer landing than the one we have until now had. So the government finally came with a small reduction in the CO2 tax and a gradual phasing out of the production fee. This is to some extent a step in the right direction, but they're too small and they're too late. Unfortunately, it now seems that the increased oil price we've had lately makes it less relevant for the Government to improve the framework conditions. I hope, however, that the bulk of the population will put things in place during the treatment of the oil message and the review of the petroleum tax in the spring. In the budgetary agreement between the Government and the Workers' Party, the financial framework within the framework areas 12 and 13 are, in our opinion, far too high. We therefore do not want to make alternative proposals within these frameworks, as this will destroy the overall budget profile we have set up. However, we will refer to the alternative state budget of the Advance Party within the framework areas 12 and 13 as reflected in the vote. We will also express our disappointment that the budget line for liming watercourses is weakened. The entry is correct at the current level of the year, but now it is also to be used to combat Gyrodactylus salaris, which will clearly weaken important liming projects in progress. I would like to take up with this the proposals No. 3, 7 and 8 on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right and proposal No. 6 on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Right and the Left Party of Socialism.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e285	Øyvind Vaksdal has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e290	After hearing the main contributions of the Progress Party, there are many things that still amaze me with the policies of the Advance Party. There are in particular two issues that I would like to be explained. The party of progress has often spoken about the stability of the party. But where is the stability of the Progress Party contributing to increasing the CO2 tax for the offshore industry in the revised 1998 national budget, and then, half a year later, to travel around and tell us that removing the CO2 tax is what will save the offshore industry in future times? The second problem is that the Progress Party has presented a Document No. 8 proposals concerning large amounts of State compensation for cultural memory protection. When they simultaneously reduce the Riksantikvarn budget by 42 million. For the next year in its alternative budget, I wonder where stability is in the policy of the Progress Party. Where does the Progress Party think that the state should raise money for these substitutes when they cut the budget of the Riksantikvar so dramatically?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e299	The representative, Torny Pedersen, was involved in the CO2 tax and why the Progress Party was involved and increased it a bit in the revised national budget last year. This is, of course, due to the cabinet question that was asked. But it must also be added that the Progress Party helped to remove this increase quite quickly a few months later, and the representative, Torny Pedersen, also knows that. As regards Document No: The 8th proposal on cultural memories, we're of the opinion that first we're going to put the law in place, before we give money to follow that law. It has to happen in the right order. And I regret to note that the proposal that we have made will not have a majority in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e306	I just need to be allowed to correct the representative, Mr Vaksdal, when he refers to the liming post, where he again expresses the fact that some of this is to be used to control the salmon parasite. It is not in line with the government settings. Reference is made to the possibility of using these funds if necessary, and I would like to stress that we are maintaining the rate of liming in 2000. What I am talking about, however, is: I am a little surprised at the description of the households' economy in the above-mentioned message in relation to what Siv Jensen has said in a line change with Councillor Gudmund Restad for a short time ago, where she refers to the fact that the pain limit for Norwegian households is approaching, and links this to the electricity charge. However, the members of the Progress Party in this Committee say that the household economy is so good that they should be responsible for the operation of voluntary organisations in Norway. Do you have a different view of what the household economy really is like in the Progress Party? That's the one question. The second question is also an interesting question of a principle nature, because it says the following – and I quote from the setting: ‘These members consider that it should not be a public task to provide financial support to non-governmental organisations.’ Is it only for organisations in areas where the Progress Party is not interested, or is this a general signal to Organisation Norway that in the future they cannot count on the Advance Party's support?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e320	First of all, with the liming of watercourses. It is true that the entry is at the same level as last year, but it is clear from the observations that it should also be used to combat other things. But there's still a decrease, because the crown amount is exactly the same, and it has been known to be a slight price increase. Then at the electricity charge for the households. Of course, there are different economies in various households around, but those for which this is very negative are those who do not pay taxes, for increased electricity charges should be compensated with increased minimum deductions. There are a number of people in this country with a weak economy, among others. minimum pensioners and others who do not pay taxes, which receive this as a net increase. So to this with non-governmental organisations. There are today a number of non-governmental organisations that don't get a single penny of government. But we're betting on volunteering, and you can't compare electricity taxes, which are a coercion for the individual, and paying direct support to organizations above the state budget. I do not understand how the representative, Brother Yngve Rahm, can compare such things at all.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e329	In the setting, the Progress Party, together with the Right, stands in a rather harsh criticism of the Government's policy on cultural memory protection. They say, among other things:\t\t You can ‘These members will strengthen the legal position of the owner in protecting cultural memories in order to ensure a balance between the obligations imposed by the State and the rights of the owner of a cultural memory. In this context, proposals will focus on the financial responsibility of the State in the case of the preservation of private property.’» At the same time, the advance party almost 25 pst. in the appropriations entered in the budget of the Riksantikvaren, and this goes beyond precisely the appropriations intended to compensate private owners when the State enters and frees private property. On a question from the representative, Torny Pedersen, Vaksdal says that we must first put in place a law. But there's a law in place. We agree that this law is not good enough. But there can't be any logic in that if you can't get anything completely, you're not going to get anything. For that is what is in the position of the Progress Party here. Because you haven't put in place a law that fully compensates, the Progress Party cuts so hard that families, teams and associations that have been caring for the cultural heritage through generations won't get anything. Where's the logic? I also record that the Progress Party proposes in its note an increase within the chapter Riksantikvaren – to «Skibladner». The only specific point you have is increased allocation to Skibladner, so at the same time you have to cut over 40 million. kr in the overall budget, as the representative, Torny Pedersen, has also pointed out.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e342	The representative, Sanner, was about to cut 25 pst. in these appropriations, and that is so far correct. But it will not be the same as nothing, as the same representative said, in terms of support for this. It is clear that we have a law on which the representative Sanner was involved. We are not satisfied with the law, we want to improve this law. We have said a lot about this in our comments, but we have also delivered a Document No. Eight proposals which unfortunately do not receive a majority. There the representative Sanner and Right also say a lot nice in the comments, but then they jump off when it comes to the conclusion. So thanks not least to the Right, we don't get to improve this law.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e349	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e352	It may be a little difficult to sum up the environmental policy debates in this century, because it's probably only the last 30 years we've had such debates. But if we were to make an effort in this latest environmental policy debate in the Stortinge in this century, we could say that the awareness of environmental issues has increased, although there has sometimes been disagreement about priorities. A report describing the environment in Europe for the Council of Europe this autumn shows that, despite improvements in some areas, the environment in Europe is not getting much better. It's quite quiet in some areas, and in other areas it gets worse. The increasingly high temperatures we see mean that there is more energy driving the earth's climate system. The average temperature in the last few years has been the highest ever since measurements increased, and it is now undisputed that Antarctica is melting. It's urgent to find solutions. We have gradually obtained some 170 international environmental agreements, but only three-four of them are binding. In return, it concerns some of the most important ones, including: The Convention on Biological Diversity and the Kyoto Protocol. If the Kyoto Protocol is ratified, it will be an important first step towards controlling emissions that are dangerous to the climate. However, caution should be exercised in taking the trading system for granted before it is developed and before the agreement has been ratified. This means that we in Norway should not make provision for increased greenhouse gas emissions, based on a belief that we should manage to bring emissions down in the future by means of the ETS. The fact that we have never had such a high awareness of environmental issues means that we can hope for the seriousness of the situation for politicians and peoples in more and more countries, and the slogan «Think Globally, act locally» appears to be an effective strategy. It's only when we see the relationship between our local and national actions and the Earth's environment that our environmental policy really makes sense. We are now seeing increasingly harsh and devastating storms and more floods than before. When the world also experiences crises in fisheries, disappearing groundwater, major interference with the world’s forests and an explosive spread of infectious diseases, new attitudes are forced. Environment and development are closely linked. And when one of the six billion people on earth strives to survive, it calls for effort. I therefore believe that the bet on Local Agenda 21 is one of the most important things we can do. The main idea is that this programme should trigger voluntary efforts and create cooperation between local authorities, private households, non-governmental organisations and businesses in a common fight for the environment. It is important that this work is coordinated and that we have a network of environmental agents that can help trigger such voluntary efforts. The work on the seven rivers of Oslo is an example of how local Agenda 21 funds can trigger voluntary action. We are pleased to note today that the main priorities of the Government's draft budget have been given a majority in the Storting. The majority have joined a framework to contribute to lower electricity consumption and increased use of renewable energy sources. This underpins the government's energy policy that makes an ambitious environmental policy possible. It is also very positive that the Government has gained support for the strengthening of cultural memory protection, increased funds for predator management and support for strengthening its work on control and follow-up of chemical legislation. Furthermore, it is positive that funds are allocated to the Ministry of the Environment’s budget to strengthen local efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Regional planning to ensure biodiversity and accessibility to the coastal zone shall also be facilitated. In order to take the right decisions and take targeted action, research is important. Environmental research shall increase knowledge of effective environmental protection, sustainable resource management and societal planning. It is therefore gratifying that the funds for environmental research will increase in 2000. That's also why in the agreement between the centre parties and the Workers' Party we found it right to increase the funds for predatory research. We are committed to complying with the Berne Convention, and on the basis of the signals coming from Berne, it seems that Norwegian predatory policy is well within. We see predatory research as an important contribution to the implementation of targeted measures in predator management and to the reduction of the level of conflict. The Directorate for Nature Management is a central player in the implementation of environmental policy. So it's important that the directorate is able to solve the problems they're assigned to. One of these tasks is predator management. While the broad lines of predatory policies are firm, this does not prevent authorities at all levels from still actively contributing to the mitigation of the level of conflict. The prevention measures taken for the current grazing season have proved successful. It is therefore important that these be evaluated and further developed so that effective prevention measures can also be implemented for the next grazing season. In addition, it is important to follow up the work on stock registration. In this context, it is important to keep in touch with the industry in areas of major predatory damage. It is also important to facilitate the collection of pests once a breeding permit has been granted. In this respect, it is important that the State will contribute to the training and training of hunters. The pressure on the areas of the coastal and coastal zones is great. The possibilities for most people to use these areas are getting smaller and smaller. It is therefore positive that the Government is supported in order to take a closer look at the dispensation practices, with a view to tightening them up. In line with this, the Centre Parties and the Workers' Party have agreed to increase the grant to secure the rights of all persons by granting 2.8 million. extra to legal assistance for municipal security of all-person rights. This will be the most effective use of means to ensure public access to private property. It is only when more reasonable solutions have been tried, without reaching out that, in exceptional cases, the country should take steps to purchase private properties in order to ensure free access to the area. In most cases I don't think this will be necessary. Cultural memories are a central part of our common cultural heritage. It is therefore important to facilitate the maintenance of this common heritage. The annual loss of cultural memories and environments is estimated to be approximately 1 pst. Measures to conserve cultural heritage are therefore urgent. The Government's draft budget focuses on measures that will streamline the management of cultural memories and prevent unnecessary conflicts and destruction. The government receives support for the priorities undertaken. The proposal on legislative changes in the Cultural Memory Act will result in the need for increased payments. The majority of the Committee therefore agrees to increase the funding for cultural memory measures by an additional 7.2 million. kr, in addition to the Government’s proposal for increased funds of SEK 5,2 million. kr. There is a need for a great boost in cultural memory protection. I refer to the calculations of the Riksantikvaren, which show that there will be a need for 2.5 milliards for the next ten years to preserve our cultural heritage. I find it difficult to believe that all this money can come from the state, but on the basis of the increased need, we have agreed that the government in the context of next year's budget must come back with a stepping-up plan for cultural protection that ensures an ordinary level of maintenance by 2010. I am particularly pleased that the majority refers to the need to record cultural memories along the rivers of the capital and allocate 500 000 kroner to this important work, which will largely be based on voluntary efforts. It will be fully in line with the main idea of Local Agenda 21 by cooperating with good associations and history teams to document local history, restore ponds and set up signs. In the case of chemicals that are hazardous to health and the environment, the Minister for the Environment has presented an action plan consisting of a number of measures for, inter alia, getting rid of the most dangerous chemicals. In addition, it includes measures to make business more responsible for reducing the risk of chemical use. It also contains measures to improve information. In the spring of 1999, the substitution obligation was also laid down in the Product Control Act. This means that all businesses are continuously working to use more environmentally friendly chemicals. Norway has been active in the negotiation of two regional agreements on restrictions on production, use and emissions, among others. lead, mercury and cadmium. Norway is also actively participating in the work of a new global convention on the regulation of environmental pollutants under UNEP. Last year, a regulation was adopted which gives importers and manufacturers of electronic and electrical products responsibility for taking these products back when they are to be discarded. This shows that the Government is pursuing offensive policies in terms of ridding emissions of environmentally hazardous chemicals. Priority is also given to monitoring and stimulating clean-up in areas contaminated by past emissions. I am pleased with the agreement that was first reached in the Financial Committee between the Workers' Party and the Centre parties, which ensured a majority of the main lines of the Government's policy, and also for the agreement that we subsequently entered into in the Energy and Environment Committee, where we agreed on some important priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e398	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e402	Electricity consumption is increasing dramatically year by year. Last year, consumption increased in relation to the previous year with something like six-eight Upper Otta expansions, despite the ambitions of the government parties to reduce electricity consumption in Norway. Since the government's policy is to pump as much money as possible into private consumption, it is not difficult to understand that electricity consumption is also increasing. What we're producing from hydropower, we've used up a long time ago. Now it is the import of polluting coal power from Denmark that saves us through darkness and cold periods. The question is, since the government is not in the vicinity of a policy that can make us self-sufficient in electricity, which is the goal of the government parties, do the government parties seem to be able to continue to rely on imports of coal power? As far as I know, the government parties have had rather ambitious objectives in climate policy, even though the parties have run with seven-mile boots in the last few years from previous decisions. The representative Rise was also in his contribution to the climate debate. Does the representative think it is right for Norway to import highly climate-polluting coal power from Denmark?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e413	No, it is not «greit» that we import polluting coal power from Denmark. That's why the government has a strategy, set out in the Energy Communication, which is that it should be allocated 5 billion kroner for an additional and alternative energy. This is what the Government has been following up in the budget for the year 2000. When the representative Hegna says that the increase is equal to six-eight Upper Eighths, it just illustrates the fact that what the Workers' Party did, to go in to expand Upper Eighths, must have been a solid error when the increase equals six-eight Upper Eighths. I need to remember what has been the Labour Party's attitude in terms of increasing and investing in alternative energy research in the last ten years before the Bondevik government joined. During a ten-year period, it was used approximately. 300 million. kr for alternative energy research, that is approximately equivalent. Thirty million. kr per year. It is clear that Norway is now far behind in relation to where we could have been if the proposals of the centre parties and the SV to increase in this area had been followed up. But over and over again, we felt that these proposals in this Chamber were voted down by a majority of the Labour Party and the Right. Therefore, Norway is unfortunately well behind in the case of alternative energy. I think our position could have been completely different if we had been betting before, and we could have afford that. With the plan that has now been put up by the Government, we've come up to a level that is starting to look like what you're betting on in Sweden, where you decided long ago to bet 9 billion kroner divided into four years. I think that if we in this room could get a greater agreement that this area is important, we could also reduce the imports of polluting coal power.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e427	The representative Rise was saying that we've become more aware of environmental issues. Acid precipitation is a real environmental problem. Combating acid rain is so important that we in the Progress Party in our primary budget proposal have proposed increasing the allocation of nearly 20 million watercourses. kr in relation to the Government’s proposal. A minority in the Committee - The Party of Advances, Right and SV - sees the need to ensure that the liming allocation is minimal at the existing level, while stressing the need for a separate entry to combat the salmon parasite Gyrodactylus salaris. As is known, the entry for liming grants is also open to finance measures to combat Gyrodactylus. My question to the representative Rise is: why is the Christian People's Party so passive in increasing the allocation of liming, as the need is greater than that which can cover, and why can't the Christian People's Party be involved in devoting funds to a multi-annual action project to combat Gyrodactylus?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e434	The representative of Korsberg underlines the importance of investing more funds in liming. The government agrees, for there is no government that has ever proposed such high liming appropriations as the sitting government, and that is probably also the first time there has been such broad consensus in terms of the liming allocation as it has been this year. It is no longer necessary for the Storting to add large amounts to liming, because there is such a broad consensus about the level that has now been laid down. But I have to focus my attention on what seems to be the thinking and ideology of the Progress Party here, namely to focus as much on repair as possible, to have as high a cost as possible to repair damage rather than to bet on prevention. I see little evidence that the Progress Party will be committed to the prevention of pollution, the prevention of greenhouse gas emissions, and other policy areas as well, but the Progress Party will make maximum efforts to repair damage rather than prevent it. So I want to challenge the representative of Korsberg to think about whether the Progress Party could save more money on public budgets by investing in prevention rather than repairing. In the case of acid rain, important progress has been made. The government has now agreed to reduce emissions from the United Kingdom. I believe, however, that there is a need for even more stringent international measures to reduce these emissions, but it will take time to obtain international sanctions to stop emissions, because pollution knows no borders.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e443	I think we should give the centre party the right idea that they are a little better in environmental policy than the working party has been when they're in position – I can actually boast, but not too much, because they don't need it! It's a little annoying, I think, to read in the newspaper that one blames on Stortinget, that it's Stortingen's responsibility that one does not have an offensive environmental policy. That's what I think is pretty frivolous. I have to ask Rise whether this also includes SV, that SV is also responsible for more than the government not getting an impact on its environmental policy. I thought it was a bit cowardly of the government to go out and blame the Storting. Environmental policy is not a cash support for the Government. It's not a matter of what you're talking about, it's a matter of age. It does one in this budget as well – together with the Labour Party this time, the previous time together with the Right and the Progress Party. So here I thought that one should be a little bit tight and say that one thought it was important to be in position and not necessarily to get through because one opinion is important politically. Let me illustrate with two examples that it's not just Storting's responsibility. When it's about PCB cleanup, there's a large number of people criticising the "Registration of Inactivity". The Nature Conservation Association has illustrated that this is a huge problem. We know that, among other things: can have a major impact on people's health, and the government has no particular initiative to clean up. There's an action plan, but there needs more money here. The second example is shifting with a view to greater energy efficiency, which one does not. So the government has to take responsibility that it's not offensive when it comes to environmental policy, and that's what Lars Rise has to answer for here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e454	I thought it was nice to get boasted by the representative Langeland. It is nice that the centre parties and SV in many cases have come together to seek a better environmental policy from the state. But it's clear that we don't have a majority in all things, and then it's actually the big number that decides. I would also like to remind the representative of Langeland that the government has never asked cabinet questions about the cash support. But it has asked cabinet questions on an environmental policy issue, namely the CO2 tax – and it was the first time in 12 years that it was asked a cabinet question. So I just get to remind the representative of Langeland that it was actually an environmental policy issue that asked cabinet questions. In the case of PCBs, there is sharp criticism from the majority of the population – we have recorded this – despite the government having increased the budget by 3 million. kr. But the bulk of the population does not follow up with any suggestions for increased appropriations, and then it helps little to make sharp criticisms. Langeland has certainly proposed increased appropriations, but it does not represent the bulk of the population. The representative of Langeland refers to an article in the Newspaper that the Government owes it to the majority of the population. I must confess that I have not seen that article, and it is therefore difficult to comment on it. But we are told that it is a majority in this Chamber that has often opposed environmental interests. For the first time in a long time, or perhaps for the first time at all, we have a government that has very often been on the side of the environmental movement, and I think that the representative of Langeland should appreciate and even more often boast.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e463	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e466	You can choose to consider budgeting in the light of the few million that separate the lots by individual items, or you can go behind the figures to see which principles underpin the priorities of the parties. I would like to highlight three key elements of the Right Environmental Policy, which also underpin our priorities in this budgetary position. First, the right assumes that we need to get the ‘minimum environment for each krona’. It must reflect both our national environmental policy and our attitude towards international environmental work. Nationally, it is right-wing to move money from environmental bureaucracies to active measures. At the same time, the right is concerned that the money should also be put nationally where it has the greatest effect. Within the framework adopted for the Ministry of the Environment’s budget, the Right has proposed shifting funds from environmental bureaucracy to environmental action. The right proposes, among other things: a clear increase in the appropriations for liming watercourses. There is a concrete measure that has a great impact. We fear that the Government's proposal may lead to a real decline in liming if funds under this item are also to be used to control the salmon parasite Gyrodactylus salaris. We therefore recommend that it be set by a separate sum to combat this parasite. Furthermore, the Right proposes to grant $10 million. kr for PCB cleaning. PCB pollution is one of the major environmental problems at national and local level. Large quantities of PCBs have already been released into the wild, and many products still in use contain PCBs. There's reason to wonder why the central government is so passive about these problems. Not only is it naughty, but it borders on the pathetic when the Secretary of State – from the Left – in the Ministry of Environmental Protection blames the Stortinget for the lack of offensive environmental policies. There's reason to ask where it's been from the Left's environmental profile. Has it disappeared in the bureaucracy, or has the party simply forgotten it again in the party office? All credit to the Norwegian Nature Conservation Association for the work they have done to detect the extent of PCB pollution. Now is the time for action, and then the Right is calling for an offensive Environment Minister. At this point, there's no reason to blame the Storing. Furthermore, on the basis of the objective of giving priority to measures where they have the most impact, the Right recommends that a substantial proportion of the funds raised by the Ministry of Energy’s budget be used for theintroduction of natural gas. I am pleased that the majority who have opened up the construction of gas power plants in Norway – Right, Workers’ Party and the Advance Party – are asking that a large part of the research funds go to projects aimed at bringing about new clean-up technologies. Just as the Right focuses on environment-efficient solutions nationally, we are concerned with cost-effective environmental policies internationally. In this context, I would like to point out that the Right over the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget has proposed spending 200 million. kr extra for environmental measures and nuclear safety work in North-West Russia. It is a paradox that several of Storting’s parties are fighting to blow up the allocations of Norwegian windmills and other island measures, while it becomes quite silent when the Right proposes to do something with the ticking environmental bomb on the other side of the north border. I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment if, during the debate, she can say something about the status of work precisely in relation to nuclear safety and the environmental problems in the North Callot, and what new offensive initiatives are now on the steps of the Government. The second key element of the Right Environmental Policy is the focus on conflict mitigation measures. In many contexts, there may be a conflict between private or commercial interests and social interests. In this case, the right is committed to improving cooperation between the public and private sectors. I'll draw out two relationships. The first concerns cultural memory protection. Throughout generations, families, teams and associations have taken care of our cultural heritage. Then it is very regrettable that many people experience the state more as an opponent than a co-player in this work. We're going back to this when the Storting is going to deal with the cultural memory law. But I want to show that the Right is concerned that the obligations imposed by the State on private individuals must be balanced with rights. Therefore, the Right proposes to increase support for cultural memory protection over the budget of the Riksantikvaret. It is typical that the Centre and the Workers' Party justify their additions to the Riksantikvaren that the Cultural Memory Act will ‘increase the working conditions of the counties as regional administrators’. In other words, it is a concern for the bureaucratic element, and not a handshake for families, teams and associations who care for our cultural heritage, which underpins the priorities of the Labour Party and the Centre Party. The working party now had the opportunity to really get something done on the cultural memory protection side. You could go along with the Right in the treatment of the Cultural Memory Act, you could be hard on the budget, but you chose not to. The other relationship I want to mention is that the Right proposes to increase the amount of funding for securing open-air areas. I am very surprised that the central government is proposing to cut the allocation for securing open-air areas. It is particularly surprising in view of the strong searchlight that has been on the need to secure areas in the coastal zone. Securing open air areas is an effective tool to ensure public access to natural areas while at the same time reducing conflict. It is very regrettable that the Centre and the Workers' Party are now stepping down a counter-conflict action, while the parties are granting 2.8 million. kr to legal aid for municipal security of all-person rights. I'd like to know how many lawyers you get for 2.8 million. kr! Nevertheless, this is a shift from the cooperation line to a conflict-prone action, where it is intended to end up in the courtroom. Where has it become of the civility of the center parties? The third element of the Right Environmental Policy is the objective of finding instruments that can stimulate the growing awareness of the environment that exists both among people and in business. While many companies used to look at environmental pollution as a problem and a cost, more and more people now view environmental friendliness as a competitive advantage in the future. This time separation must also have consequences for the use of the instrument. We need less whips and more positive instruments. In this context, the right is committed to increasing research efforts. While the center parties and the Workers' Party cut 15 million. kr for energy research, increase the right allocation by 30 million. kr. I record that the Workers' Party's Jens Stoltenberg is hiding behind the agreement with the centre parties. I feel sure that if I had asked Marit Arnstad State Council, she would send it to the Workers' Party and say that it was the agreement with the Workers' Party that led to the cut. However, we are left with a situation where you increase the grant on the island by almost 100 million. DK, while cutting the research effort very hard. We need to increase research efforts if we're really going to do something on the island side in the future. The right is also busy with Local Agenda 21. The objective of LA 21 is to promote sustainable development by stimulating local cooperation and local processes involving voluntary, business and local authorities. At that time, government funds should also be used to stimulate voluntary organisations. This year, too, the right is opposed to using state resources to finance LA 21 coordinators in the counties, administratively linked to the Local Governments' Central Association. In our opinion, it will increase bureaucracy and localise LA 21 work and reduce the grant opportunities of non-governmental organisations. Last year, a majority of the committee warned against red tape of the LA 21 work. There is nothing to suggest that this majority should change its mind. On the contrary, several non-governmental organisations have confirmed the concerns of the majority through the consultations we have had this year. We just have to note that the Workers' Party has now changed its mind and this year is helping to build up the environmental bureaucracy at the expense of the work of the voluntary organisations. I have placed the emphasis on environmental policy in this article. This is due to a number of factors, including: that during the winter the size of the staging will come back to the energy issues, both in the context of the energy message and not least in the context of the petroleum message. Nevertheless, I would like to express my satisfaction that the Government has not repeated this time the proposals for deterioration in the framework conditions for the petroleum industry, but rather has taken a step in the right direction by proposing reductions in the CO2 tax. I registered that the representative Lars Rise pointed out that the government had been hard on an environmental measure to increase the CO2 tax. You can then wonder what kind of environmental measures it is from the Government when you actually propose to reduce the CO2 tax. Now I disagree that the sky-high CO2 tax on the socket is an environmental measure, but I note that the representative Rise believes that the government has reduced its ambitions in that area. Finally, I would like to address the suggestions put forward in the right-hand position.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e504	Jan Tore Sanner has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e509	I'm glad that the Right and the representative Sanner are so busy with cultural memories. However, the representative Sanner, in this matter, appears to be quite new in his argument. I think it is quite timely in this matter to remind the representative Sanner that it is no longer than one year since the Right was involved in a cut of 8 million. kr for cultural memory protection. On the right, attacks on the environment are now taking place and believe that more effective environmental policies can be achieved by cutting 72 million. kr in the SNO, in the Ministry of Environment, in the Directorate for Nature Management and the SFT. I think that the win is going up in the spin, because in environmental policy, more than in any other area, there is a need for money for administrative control and monitoring. I also think right after that will have to realize that. An area in which the Right has certainly not been regarded as a particular progressive in its environmental policy is predatory policy. Together with the Centre Party and the Advance Party, in 1997 they opposed the reestablishment of a Norwegian wolf population. But now we see quite new paces in the fact that the Right Environmental Agency in Oslo, Merete Agerbak-Jensen, this summer many people were happy when she defended the wolf's right to establish herself in the Oslo area. My question to the representative Sanner is: Is now Right-on-Slide in his view of the wolf? Is it such that the Right Environmental Agency in Oslo is in the process of getting through its party for its view of wolves, or is it that there are still predators in Hedmark who determine the Right Wolf Policy?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e520	The last question is perhaps the most urgent and perhaps the most interesting. The representative Gjul refers to the Environment Agency in Oslo. I could refer to various representatives from the Workers' Party who have flagged different opinions. I have registered that even in Hedmark Arbeiderparti, the representatives who stand on perhaps the other outer wing in relation to the representative Gjul here presented. The right is concerned that there should be a comprehensive policy and that there should be a balanced policy. The problem today is that conflicts are increasing, and I believe that, in particular – if we can use that term – predators will be served by a new debate on predatory policy. We have to dampen the conflict. We need to ensure that we have a policy that takes care of sustainable predatory strains, while showing respect for those who farm livestock in District Norway. Here is the Right out to find solutions, and I am convinced that we will come back to that matter in Stortinget. On the second issue raised by the representative, namely our desire to turn money from environmental bureaucracy to active action, I am surprised at the structural conservatism that exists in the Workers' Party in this area. Clearly, it is possible to save money. The representative himself pointed to a large number of directorates and different parts of government responsible for the environment. We also want to get a proper review to see if this can be done in a more effective way. Then we have to make sure that there is good cooperation between voluntary and private forces and public efforts. This can be seen, among other things: in the case of SNO, where the Right wants to reduce something on the State side and rather stimulate private and voluntary supervision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e530	Right was the first party to raise the question of nature protection here in this room, but it's a shame that the Right does not follow up these proud traditions when I hear the representative Sanner here, such as. says that the CO2 tax is not an environmental measure. It is clear that the CO2 tax has led to the industry itself moving ahead in researching innovations that could lead to CO2-free technology. Nevertheless, we see that the Right in this budgetary position is going to provide state support to some of the most resource-intensive companies we have, so that they can research CO2-free technology. At the same time, right-hand research on e.g. windmills. The right has been against large allocations of alternative energy for quite many years and bears a rather heavy responsibility for what is the status of Norway in this area today. Does the Right have a strategy to shift consumption more to alternative energy sources? It is that we need to build rocks to reverse development and to get more alternative energy sources, so that we can not import coal power. I would also like to ask how the Right has intended to comply with the Kyoto Protocol, when we know that the ETS is not in place, it has not yet been developed, and the agreement has not been ratified either. Nevertheless, the Right will build out gas power plants based on old technology. So to Local Agenda 21. We must not forget that there are in fact 4.5 million people in this country, and here we are only talking about one coordinator in each state to help inspire voluntary efforts, efforts by private, business and cooperation with municipalities on Local Agenda 21.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e541	This was a mixture of lobster and canary. I think almost I have to ask the representative Rise read the setting, because all these questions I cannot answer in two minutes, but I will try to see how far I am going. Firstly, I think maybe I have to ask the representative Rise to distinguish between nature protection and environmental protection. To the issue of CO2 tax is an environmental measure: Yes, I agree. I think it can also be said that the CO2 tax on the base has helped to speed up a necessary process. But then the question is the level? Is it the case that the CO2 tax is to be so much higher on the base than on the mainland industry? I don't see any reason for that. I noticed that the central government, having first set the ultimatum in terms of increasing the CO2 tax, agreed to remove the increase, and now it is proposing on an independent basis to reduce the CO2 tax by 20 pst. – and actually boasts of it. One boasts of reducing the CO2 tax as an important measure to regain activity. It's not right, as Rise's representative says, that right zeros out research on windmills. Where does it say? What the right is doing is we're zeroing out operating subsidies for windmills. We believe that it makes no sense to subsidise the operation of wind turbines over government budgets. And if you're concerned with nature protection, it's not the way to get a continuous strip of windmills from Lindesnes in the south to Kirkenes in the north. Yes – The right has a strategy to increase the investment in alternative energy sources. We promoted in this Stortinget, among others. a very well-worked proposal for the introduction of heat pumps, which is also being followed up, and we have really been at the barricades to get ahead of that work. We also believe that we now need to have an offensive investment in gas, in natural gas and also in gas power, because it is more environmentally friendly than importing more coal power from Denmark.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e552	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e555	The Energy and Environment Committee always has important issues on its agenda, several of which are controversial. For example, there is a conflict between gas power and the environment, predatory policies, protective rules, oil resource management, energy production and consumption. In spite of this, the debate on the Committee's budget reflects little of all that is involved, at least if one is to see it expressed in figures. From one who usually has his place outside this house, the government has been fully informed of its priorities in almost all points. The Budget Agreement between the Centre Party and the Labour Party confirms this, only a few million have been moved on. The explanation of the state is, of course, that the party, as indicated in the financial situation, initially accepts the Minister of Finance's view of the framework on which the State budget should be based. It will then be possible to discuss whether the energy and environmental committee's budget, which is adapted to the economic situation, will also achieve objectives in an ecological perspective. The answer to that question is far from obvious, and can never be. The state budget is, after all, just one of several elements in a larger interaction pattern, and we still need to hunt for safer means of spending money. But it is worth noting that this time the Committee has had access to a broader and better documentation than for a long time. I'm thinking about St.meld. No 8 for 1999-2000, on the state of the state of the state, which was provided in close association with the state budget. There is a solid presentation of the results achieved up to now, and beyond areas where efforts have to be increased for years to come. In the budget for next year, there is a certain amount of concern about this. It is nice to note that cultural memory protection is high on the government priority list. It's also a very interesting observation. It is a testimony to the underlying values of the Government's environmental protection policy, a vision that the Centre Party welcomes. A critical search light is often correctly seen on the footsteps of people looking for themselves. We know of tactful interventions of many kinds, we record emissions that damage lives and create unfortunate climate change. But there is also another point of view, because through the ages, human beings have created many things that are worth taking care of. The fact that such human-made statements are given so much space in environmental protection policy is very commendable. We are reminded here that environmental protection is more than nature protection, and that man also has his rightful place in nature. The government is in the process of implementing an offensive cultural memory policy. comes to expression in Ot.prp. No 50 for 1998-1999, which will soon be debated in Stortinget. When the level of ambition is lifted, such as Ot. pp. No Of course, it is important that the economic consequences are clear. As a long-standing state politician, I can refer to state initiatives where the bill has been sent to others after a short period of time. In this situation it seems that economic issues are being taken seriously, a thorough review is a warning, and the Committee has followed up with more money for cultural memory protection in the budget currently under consideration in the Stortinget. It means in the picture that there is in the Ministry of Oil and Energy its budget under Cape. 4860 has been found a solution which means that A/S Tyssefallen and Statkraft are involved in financing an upgrading of Tysso I to a museum. Midlane shall be made available by the Vestnorsk Industrivstadmuseum in cooperation with Antikvarian governmental powers. Thus, we are faced with a breakthrough in a matter where local authorities, municipalities and county councils have committed themselves strongly for years. This is very good for the many who have stood by, but also for Norwegian cultural memory protection in general. Because the funding is now linked to power agreements, it will still be a few years before the plan is implemented. Therefore, it is important to note that all the coming years need to be taken into account for a maturity that has come too far.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e575	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e578	Now is the previous speaker speaking alternate, and has therefore not had the opportunity to follow the budgetary procedure in detail, so I shall not put him intrigued questions about small items in the budget. Nevertheless, the previous speaker has been spokespersons in Hordaland for the last eight years, a state, etc. have gone into an organisation called Hordaland Oil and Gas Centre with money and resources. This organisation has been dissatisfied with the support they have received from central authorities when it comes to the possibility of introducing gas and having a greater use of gas in Norway. Then it might be interesting to ask the representative Lussand if he is satisfied with the efforts of the Government in this area. It might also have been interesting to hear if the former chairman of Hordaland is pleased with the efforts this government has made to stop the planned gas power plants at Kolsnes in Eyegarden.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e585	The President would like to stress that he is now giving the floor to Mr Lussand, the representative of the Magnar Lussand.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e588	It may not be common for one here in this room to be held responsible for what one has done as a county representative, but I'm still going to try to give a small picture. It is true that when one of the county representatives and county spokesmen is dealing in individual matters, one assumes that one has a multiple behind him in that body. It has also been in my life situation that I have had to take care of matters and work for them even if I have not necessarily put myself behind everything in detail in the debate that is going on before a decision is taken. We from Hordaland have been drivers for many years to see the search light more on the use of gas as a resource for the purpose of value creation in own countries. It's actually not contradictory. What has been the problem for me in particular, if I should say anything about it, is the relationship with gas power plants, where a majority of the county council has ordered me to work for this, even if I am against it, but that is the way life is in such a situation. There is perhaps also a response to the last time that the representative Akselsen took up in relation to gas power stations and my hold locally. I stand on the centre party’s point of view in this matter – I do so here, and I also do so in the county policy, but at the same time it becomes a force to work in a direction that one does not necessarily agree in. I thought — to be personal — that one in this room and in the government could have done more to stimulate the use of gas domestically, and I am thinking in particular of the transport sector, with the phasing out of heavier oil products to promote the use of gas.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e601	Several have not asked the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e604	I first mentioned the SV's proposals, so I don't forget it. I want to start by talking a little bit about the Workers' Party's role in environmental policy, because I couldn't take a line on the Labour Party representative. When it comes to the Workers' Party, I think they'll cut down a tree, and then they'll stand up on the stump and tell us to protect the forest. Every year, what they bring to the Stortinge in connection with this budget is cut in the environmental budget and cut in energy spending. That's what they're offering the center government, I think it's important to have in mind, and that's what they're doing this time as well. When it comes to what we are adopting today, the Labour Party is a delay in relation to the central government – unfortunately. And so it is that even if a jaw on one, one can't boast too much of the other. Because there's no doubt that if we had the Central Party with us in opposition, there would be a completely different tone when it comes to environmental policy. It's not the offensive center we hear when it comes to investing in alternative renewable energy. There is no offensive left we can hear when it comes to doing something about the problems associated with the PCB. Nor is it the offensive Christian People's Party that we hear when it comes to investing in alternative renewable energy. They're not at all the same parties when they're in government and they're in position. Then policy changes to keep the position, and then the position becomes more important than politics. Of course, Norway was previously known for being a transitory country when it was aggravating environmental policy. We can't say that Norway is it anymore. On the contrary, we have seen examples of the opposite, that one is a delay in the climate negotiations, and one is not a driver when it comes to cleaning up old environmental sins. What Norway needs is a less oil-based economy. We must therefore move from the black oil economy to a green knowledge-based economy, where we are investing in renewable energy sources and where we are investing properly in research and development of alternative renewable energy technologies. That makes this government partly, but I have to say that I am afraid that an actually does not spend the money that Stortinget permits. There's a real explanation problem, why not a sister that many of the good projects looking for funds get started. It's a fact, and there's a lot of people who don't take in, that our oil-based economy, during the period that we're expected to have left to live, will no longer exist. It will be replaced either by us or by one. Sometimes it seems that my energy-policy colleagues don't take it inwards, especially those from the Right, the Progress Party and the Labour Party. The former research director of BP, Sir John Cadogan, said a few years ago that if developments continue in the 1990s, the future energy source will be water and not oil. With that he wasn't just thinking about water, but he was also thinking about the new forms of energy that are developing, where Norway is a sink. Choir is e.g. Statoil in this context? Are they on the offensive and investing in alternative renewable energy? Does the Council of State in the General Assembly announce that Statoil will spend more money on this? No, it doesn't. That's what I've asked you many times. Finally, I think it's a bit surprising that the proposals that SV has, and that go into liming and doing something with Gyrodactylus salaris, don't get plurals, and especially I ask why the Labour Party doesn't vote for them.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e624	Hallgeir H. Langeland has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e629	Just a brief question to the representative of Langeland, who in many ways is a bit difficult to argue against, because he and his party in this area have a very high profile, which we appreciate. What's the question, when Langeland chooses to criticise the central government, is whether we can get a signal from SV based on the descriptions he has given of other environmental sinks in this hall, the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Right. How does Hallgeir H. Langeland view it, as the Stortinget is composed, that it should be possible to establish a majority of the environmental policy bets that he primarily wants? And would Hallgeir H. Langeland see it as desirable that the government ask cabinet questions on environmental issues, if he knew that the option would be a different government with a much lower environmental profile than the central government adds? So how does Langeland think that it should be possible to bring together a majority in this room, as the Stortinget per. Today is put together?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e636	I thank you for the opportunity to advise the central government on how to get an impact on more environmental policy, for the Norwegian community really needs it! It needs the Norwegian people, and it needs the one who is concerned about future and coming generations. My criticism of the central government is that it sells too cheap when it comes to environmental policy. I'm not saying that it's necessarily going to settle cabinet issues, but I'm surprised that environmental policy is one of the first things to negotiate away. One does not come to Stortinget and says: This is important, this must be the Labour Party or others. No, we can cut a little bit of energy research, we can cut a little bit of bet when it comes to conversion. Then it won't be that important, if you don't have a system to show you that one is on, for example. did in cash support cases where a really displayed face and said that the case would have one through. That's what you'd think of. Unfortunately, it is that there will not be environmental policy the government will think of. My advice, then, is that a revised one comes with a real bet on, among other things. PCB cleaning. There's a multiple here in this room required. This is the only advice. The second advice is: make more proposals for environmental policy additions and stand on, be a little more conditiony! The government will receive full support from SV for a more offensive environmental policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e645	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e648	Jens Stoltenberg said in his statement, and it is right, that there are limited opportunities to redeploy as the treatment of the budget is now organised. But with that remark, it might seem that he had an unsolved urge to contribute to an offensive in the environmental field. That's good news in case. We did not notice anything at the Workers' Party when we negotiated the budget earlier this autumn. The environment was not one of the priority areas of the Workers' Party when they wanted to redispatch the budget. On the contrary, we had to have a smaller cut of 10 million. NOK in order to get a receipt of the wishes of the Workers' Party. In other areas, too, when it comes to charging policy, there was a step in the wrong direction as a result of the priorities of the Workers' Party. But if it is that Stoltenberg wants an offensive, wants a greater space for action to get environmental policy on the ground, we're going to contribute to it at the next crossroads, and then we're going to hope that he gets an impact on his priorities in his party. SV has had a clear vision in recent times. It has been assumed that the party leader believes it would be appropriate for the environmental party Left to disappear from Stortinget, so that it can be opened up for a working party-dominated government. It seems paradoxical when Langeland has said that this government is clearly better in terms of environmental policy than a workers' party government. But it is possible that it is also in this case that Langeland and the party leader do not agree. The budget has a good environmental profile. This is reflected in the Ministry of the Environment’s budget, where efforts are stepped up in important areas, for example: in order to prevent damage to health and the environment from chemical use, to ensure universal access, to provide access to coastal zones, etc. It is also noticed when it comes to the restoration and maintenance of cultural memories, a matter we are given the opportunity to come back to the Stortinge next week. And it's typical of tax measures aimed at stopping and reducing environmentally harmful behaviour. However, other areas of the budget have also taken important environmental action. They have been mentioned in articles earlier today, including: the electricity charge, which is a tax conversion motivated by the desire to take a step or two in a more environmentally friendly direction. The same lies behind our desire to step up the deployment of tilting trains and research efforts in many areas targeted at environmental purposes. In sum, there is a good environmental profile in the budget that we are dealing with today. I would also like to point out a few areas on the budget of the Ministry of Oil and Energy which are essential. There has been a debate today on theexploitation of resources allocated to alternative energy sources and to renewable energy sources, and it is very important that one here is improved. But the crucial thing is that it is now invested in a completely different way and on a completely different scale than what was the case in the last years of the Workers' Party was responsible for this. The escalation that has been going on this year, which has led to funds being allocated but not paid, will be able to continue on an increased scale next year. This budget also takes action to address the problems we see in the offshore industry, where word-darkness has given rise to what is important to take seriously. The package of measures to which the Government provided in its budget has been endorsed and is well developed in cooperation with the Workers' Party. I would also like to say, because there has been a topic in the debate today, that as far as liming is concerned, there is no doubt that the efforts in that area have been stepped up. The appropriations for liming are today higher than any other government has ever had. The level is 20 pst. above the level of the Labour Party in the budget they provided in 1997. The fact that there is now a broad consensus on liming at this level is very pleasing. For the Left, it is also important that civil society, the voluntary organisations, be invested in the budget. It stands out in the form of increased support of 10 pst. to the voluntary organisations, and it is also reflected in the LA 21 facility. It is not the case, as the representative Sanner said, that this is aimed at building up bureaucracy and undermining the possibilities of exploiting an environmental exposure in the voluntary organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e665	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e668	I must be allowed to say that it is quite free, and perhaps also a little rude, by the representative of Kvassheim to owe it to the Labour Party in the budgetary procedure because it is we who have a lack of environmental offensive that we are not contributing to the improvement of the budget of the Ministry of the Environment and the Left. The Labour Party has been involved in these budgetary negotiations and has taken responsibility, and now the representative Kvassheim and Left must also start to take responsibility for the budget they have been included in. In fact, the Labour Party wants to increase its budget in many areas of the Ministry of the Environment, but we have failed to achieve this. We defend the budget as it is today, and I also think the Left must do so soon. I think the Left has a rather unworthy appearance in this matter. This has become quite symptomatic of Left. All the time, they owe the Storting. It did the Secretary of State from the Left yesterday, and so does Gunnar Kvassheim today. He cannot blame the Stortinget for the government presenting an environmental budget without significant additions, compared to what the Workers' Party did. Nor can he blame the Stortinget for the government's lack of interest in the industry in the salmon business, and he cannot blame the Stortinget for the scarcely coming up with new issues from the Ministry of the Environment. I want to ask a question to the Left: When will the representative Kvassheim and Left start taking responsibility in the Government and in environmental matters? Until now, there has been the most talk and little action, so when will the Left begin to act and stop blaming the Greatness?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e679	I tried to let it go like a green thread through my post that I was satisfied with the environmental profile of this budget. I demonstrated that the Ministry of the Environment's budget is offensive, and I saw the link between the environmental profile drawn here and what is done in other budget chapters. In sum, I am satisfied with the budget, and I am definitely responsible for it, as it stands. My remark in relation to the Workers' Party was caused by what might seem an unsolved urge from Jens Stoltenberg's side to contribute to an additional environmental offensive. I welcome that, but I registered that the priority was not reached when the Workers' Party posted the list they presented in the negotiations with the Centre Parties. Then there were quite other areas that were most important. With regard to the Workers' Party, I would like to commend them in connection with the budget, inter alia. in the case of the electricity charge. As has been pointed out here today, last year's Workers' Party had a different position. Today, it has justified Stoltenberg – I have respect for that justification – but now he was involved in this approach that also triggered funds for alternative energy sources and an increase in work. The left is definitely not indebted to the Stortinge when one does not come up with important environmental issues. But while we argue that this government is more on the offensive of environmental policy, we point out that in important areas of environmental policy – Upper Otta, shooting field – the government was voted down in the Stortinget, among others. by the Workers' Party. That's the possible representative Gjul regrets, like me, but that's a fact, and then there has to be an opportunity to point that out.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e690	It's interesting to hear that when the undissolved penchant in environmental policy appears on the pulpit of Storting, it becomes like Christmastime: When the crib is empty, the horses are bitten. That's clearly what's going on here. So the comrades in this budget deal are completely in disagreement about who has the credit for what might be of environmental policy. I also registered that the left was due to the Labour Party from this pulpit, but it may have been wrong. In the case of Kvassheim, it shall be corrected by the representative. But I have a question for the representative Kvassheim, and it is primarily about the charging policy, the electricity charge. Now the left has been able to see the increase in the electricity tax that they have fought for since they entered the Stortinget, and my question is: How high does the Left want this tax to be? I.e. if the left does not now get a pass through to reduce the sales of electricity, you might well expect the left to return with quite clear demands for an increase in the electricity charge. I think it's okay that the Norwegian people get to know how high the Left thinks this fee should finally be. And then I have another question. This is about the PCB bet on the left, which is very sluggish, actually completely absent from the budget. In the region I come from, one of the biggest environmental problems is precisely PCBs. We've put in $10 million. kr, as a first step, and it is regrettable that the Government and the Left have not done anything at this point. Can the Left notify the Storting when they wish to propose this in the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e701	In a short time, it's been said about the Left's environmental effort in the Government that there's no trace of it, and that it doesn't get through, and then Jan Johnsen comes and says that in an area where it's moving billions, the Left has got through. It's enough that the representative Johnsen is closest to the truth. The environmental policy of the left is most visible in the work of the Government and produces results. As regards the electricity charge, I do not exclude that it can be adjusted by future cross roads, but I will not announce it or say any amount. What is important in the context of the tax conversion that the Left wants, is that it collects taxes, distributes one again, so that it becomes a revenue neutral conversion. And when you can also arrange this so that it stimulates environmentally sound behaviour, it's positive. In the case of PCB, it is not right that the representative Johnsen says, that the government has not taken this seriously. An action plan has been prepared in this area, which is ambitious. These emissions are now being monitored, a pilot project is being carried out, and there are many elements in this action plan that it will not be possible to address here. The State must be able to contribute financially when it is not possible to identify who is responsible for this discharge. But the left is also concerned that the basic principle in terms of cleaning, including after PCB, is that the polluter should pay. One has to visualize the cost of the polluting activity in order to stimulate the conversion of the activity, while one cleans up. In many areas, important steps are also now being taken to collect in areas where PCBs are included in the picture. And that's an important part of this offensive -- not just to clean up, but to prevent new litter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e710	Let me first make a comment on the wounded and hopeless attitude of the Left in relation to my party leaders and her possibly lack of clarity in environmental policy. One should be pretty clear about whether one does not see the difference in the budget that the central government provided when it comes to the environment and energy, and the budget that one has now negotiated with the Labour Party, so this seems to me to be an insinuation that one should think too well. There are, of course, miles between what you can read in the Adult Declaration and what you can read in the Left's programme in relation to environmental policy. You can see - if you want it. And it may also have to be admitted by the representative of Kvassheim if he is to be honest with his constituents, that there are many miles between what one says in theory and what one has in environmental policy. This also illustrates the day’s handling in several fields. And it is clear that with the small environmental budget one has e.g. in relation to the defence budget, a good illustration is given of the priorities of this Government. I would also like to challenge the representative Kvassheim on the PCB stake. It is true that there is an action plan. But today, a number of people say that a person wants a stronger bet on cleaning up, and to get more speed on it, but it's only right and SV that have seen money for it. And it must indicate, if one is to be on the offensive, that the Left and the Government are making proposals that increase that effort, already in the revised budget. Would the representative Kvassheim support this? I would also like to ask: what is the reason why he does not support the SV proposal, the Progress Party and the Right when it comes to betting on doing something for the error axis?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e722	First to the wilderness axis. The government has already accepted the vast majority of the proposals that came from the selection that have worked on these questions. It has happened in a very short time. An important issue we want to work on more, but it is clearly announced that this will be prioritised, and we will come back with it. The representative of Langeland played with the idea of returning this case to the Government in order to get his own big message. It would most likely have led to a longer delay in action than the line on which the Government has committed itself. So there's no reason to say SV here has an impatience that the government doesn't have. When it came to what I noticed in relation to SV's party leader, it was a wonder that SV's priority was to contribute to a development where the environmental party left was out of place in Parliament. And that wonder was coupled up against the strong wish that SV had to get back a working party-dominated government. It must then be so, even in this debate, that it is possible to have an engagement without one appearing to be the break of hope. On the contrary, I am fundamentally satisfied with the budget, have tried to express it on several occasions, and now make a new attempt. In the case of PCBs, there is an increase in the budget for clean-up of 3 million. kr. One shall make such an offensive effort in an area that has been neglected in terms of collection, in order to avoid future grubbing-up. But it is quite right that the representative of Langeland, through his intervention, pointed out that there is a need for a power cut-off. The main job must be done by the polluter, but the State must contribute, not least where it is impossible to identify who is responsible for the emissions that have taken place.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e736	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e739	In addition to the autumn last year and spring this year, it became clear that the offshore supplier industry met our tough times. This trend has continued. The supplier industry is worn out with empty order books, lay-offs and lay-offs. An overview of the industry shows that the offshore sector from next year will have to reduce its activity by up to 60 pst. Since it became clear that this situation would arise, the government has closed its eyes to development. In the autumn, it has just produced the framework improvements that a number of Stortingen have required them to do. Although the seriousness of the government has not yet gone up, the situation is getting serious too many thousands added. Permits and cancellations are becoming part of our everyday life along our coast. At the same time, we know that there are still large oil and gas resources on Norwegian soil, and that this industry will play an important role in the future. A rapid reduction now and a long period without new assignments will pose a major risk of loss of competence and weakening competitiveness in the future. Measures to maintain competence so that this industry is competitive when new projects are relaunched were therefore one of the most important requirements imposed by the Labour Party to conclude budgetary agreements with the Government. I am therefore pleased with the action plan for the dismissal and leave of absence at the offshore yard and in the supplier industry included in the agreement between the Labour Party and the Government Party. Although many of the measures listed there are to be administered by other departments, I consider it obvious that the Minister of Oil and Energy will follow with and sympathise with the content of the package. The current year's loop has been set to zero. It must be a bit of a hunch for the Minister of Energy to see that she has not been able to spend the money that the Storting has allowed for this purpose, especially when we know that this is a bet area for the Government. At least that's the rhetoric used in the past in this area, in a whole new light. An area that has not been a bet area for this government is domestic gas use. In spite of the fact that the mid-term review of the domestic gas use notification in the spring of 1996 criticised the late working party administration for passive policies and made a number of suggestions to improve it, little and nothing has happened in this area since the government change, if one does not take into account that the permits have fallen. Gas is an environmentally friendly energy form, and Norway has a great potential for putting it into use. The Labour Party will have a much more offensive policy in this area. The government's attitude seems to be one of the main obstacles to increased domestic use of gas, but I think the Minister of Energy has noticed that the majority say that the escalation of support for the introduction of natural gas already needs to be started. Although the changes compared to the government's budget may not be so big, it is such that relatively small cuts or additions may have an effect. Such a field is the cultural memory protection, where the licensing increases by 7.2 million. kr in relation to the scheme of the Government. In particular, given that last year the Committee cut a corresponding amount in this area, this is an important up-priority – and in particular when the Government in the budget proposal determines: ‘Large parts of the protected building stock and medieval ruins are in a critical constitution. It is a major backlog for refurbishment and maintenance.» Especially when you look at this quote, it is cut as the center part, right and front part took place last year, in a strange light. Its joy is that a majority this year order the Government to come back with an escalating plan in connection with next year's budget. Hopeful, then, is the state offering a new era of cultural memory protection. In the last few days, there has been a lookup in the Evening Post, where the Riksantikvar assumes that there is a need to increase the number of permits, or at least spend about $2.50 billion on this area. These are completely different numbers than the numbers we have been given in correspondence with the Minister for the Environment. I could imagine that the minister commented on that difference. For the sake of order, I would like to remind you that cultural protection is also about our floating history, and that ship protection also needs an upgrade. There's an extra 1 million. kr that we have received this year – a first step on the road – but here it is also a follow-up that one should repeat. I have previously mentioned the situation in the paint industry. Given the many restoration objects lying along our coast, one here has a chance to beat two flies in one taste. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for the Environment to take up the comment made by the Committee here, and I would also like to remind you that the Council of State here can have a good opportunity to cooperate with its left-wing colleague, Sponheim, because a majority of the nutrition committee has the same comment. So here left has a real cause they have the ability to profile themselves, easy to combine the upgrading of old boats with the situation at our yard. The old Tussedal power station and the area around it are a unique cultural memory. Unfortunately, the maturity has increased after the power turbines have been shut down a few years ago. It is therefore very gratifying that we now have a final solution to the financing problems associated with upgrading and maintaining the plant. I'm referring here to the obligations that A/S Tyssefallen have taken on, and I'm assuming that the comments from the committee that this should not go beyond the promises that the public has made in the past are noticed by the Government. Now we're halfway through this magnification period, and that's in many ways the government's third budget we're dealing with. Right, it was the first influence of the previous government. However, there must be a basis for looking at this in a more historical context, and now compare the budgets so far with the proposals that came into the opposition, and not least the proposals included in the Government Declaration, the so-called ‘Adult Declaration’. While the government party was in opposition, a massive criticism of the energy and environmental policy that was led by the dwindling government, and promised a completely different course only these parties got a handle on the steering wheel, we now see that the ambitions are turned apart. This happened first in the Adultås Declaration, and it has happened almost daily later. It was before a goal to reduce consumption. Consumption has never been greater than it is today. One had the goal of reducing oil production. Oil production in Norway has never been bigger than it is today. It was a goal to reduce energy consumption. Energy consumption has never been bigger in Norway than it is today. But I can't see that the Government of any of these areas has made proposals that will change the situation. Right, there's an energy message, but there's also a reduction in ambition. It is no longer a goal to stabilise consumption, now it is the growth to be reduced. And it's also not a goal to be self-sufficient in renewable energy, now it's imports of coal power that are the answer. While the centre party in the previous period had increased energy and environmental budgets for hundreds of millions, it is clear that the budgets that they themselves have provided are essentially a continuation of the budgets that workers' party governments have provided. In addition, very few issues have been raised, especially in the environmental field. In recent times, there has been increasing criticism of the government's environmental efforts. I think this criticism is quite understandable. There were a lot of people who believed in these parties on environmental issues. When a now after they have spent two years in government, nothing looks at the alert change in course, it must be allowed for those who had believed in these parties to be disappointed. It's obvious that people from the government apparatus don't like this criticism, but instead of defending new positions, choose one to blame on everyone else. Even if I thought it was direct puzzles to blame for the opposition when one sits with the government responsibility, as the State Secretary of the Ministry of the Environment did in the newspaper yesterday, it still shows the appointed two things, namely that people in the government apparatus think it is being conducted one too bad policy today, and also that they are managing a policy in which a real one is completely different. In other words, there are areas other than the environmental area that are the most important for the parties. The slogan from the past that the environment should be governing all other areas is abandoned. It must be allowed to ask the Environment Council if it agrees with its State Secretary that the Government is now administering a policy which it does not think is good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e778	Let me first say that I am pleased with the broad support given to the Government for its draft budget in Stortinget today. The budget for 2000 follows up the measures announced by the Government in the Energy Communication for the conversion of energy policy. Therefore, an increase in the electricity charge of 2,5 øre/kWh has also been proposed. The fuel oil charge is increased accordingly. It is combined with compensation in the form of increased minimum deductions and also increases in the allocation to promote increased production and use of renewable energy. I am very pleased that a majority in the UK has supported the main features of Government policy in this area. With regard to the investment in energy savings and the use of renewable energy sources, the government’s original proposal was 355 million. kr. It's now been adjusted down by 15 million. kr. However, it does not weaken the main impression that in the last two years one has had a strong increase in investment in this area. So I have noticed that several people today have been concerned that part of the allocation for 1999 has not yet been paid out. That doesn't mean that this money isn't disposed of; it is. Both the 1999 allocation, which was 190 million. kr, and funds transferred from previous years have also been fully disposed of during 1999. 272 million. kr is already available per. 1 December 1999, and more than 100 million is expected. kr will be disposed of before we arrive at the end of the year. This money is made available in the form of commitments given and bound up as it is in the context of application procedures. The emphasis on commitments also has a little to do with the trend towards long-term projects in this sector. There is also a tendency that the most favourable projects, from the government's point of view, are the most long-term ones. In order to contribute to the start-up of new projects, the Ministry has chosen to make commitments at a rather early stage in the process to reduce the risk of planning such long-term projects. Therefore, the proper use of these funds would require some time from the commitment of the authorities to provide support and until the funds are disbursed. Many of the projects, particularly on the heating side and wind projects, will require concession treatment, and they will also have a relatively long construction time. The Ministry has taken note of the comments made by the Storting in this area in the committee setting, and we will consider whether more can be done to ensure that projects can get started quickly and that projects that are suitable for rapid implementation are also prioritised in the application procedure. We will also review the guidelines for the granting of aid there, and the organisation of work, to ensure that the maximum amount of money is actually paid in the year in which they are granted. Let me also stress that I think it is gratifying that the Stortinge joins the Government's proposal for a new balancing system for electricity costs. I must be allowed to spend my short time saying a lot about the oil and gas sector. In 1998, we had a very high level of activity on the investment side in the oil and gas sector. At that time, the investments were approx. $70 billion, against approx. $30 billion in 1999. Investments in the next few years are expected to fall between 40 and 50 billion dollars, and there is an investment level that will be more consistent with the level of investment we saw earlier in the 1990s. From the government's point of view, it's not an objective, nor realistic, to maintain the level of investment we've seen in the last two years. The challenge ahead is to try to avoid excessive adverse effects from the sudden fall we have seen, and then try to contribute to a more even level of activity. It now appears that oil companies will decide more expansions during the year 2000. This means that the offshore and supply industries will be able to have new construction tasks at the beginning of 2001. Nevertheless, it is a major challenge for industry to be able to pass through the period before the time needed to make the necessary changes, while maintaining key competences. The government will contribute to support training activities and the labour market seat, together with industry, will facilitate that type of action. In addition, the Project-oriented Technology Development Programme, DEMO 2000, is proposed to be continued next year. The programme has so far provided a comprehensive response in the industry. The 100 million. kr granted by public funds in 1999 has triggered 300 million. kr from industry. The funds are so widely distributed over a twenty-one project, with the entire offshore industry heavily involved. We are facing major challenges in both oil and energy policy. The budget provides a good basis for the ability of authorities to both address the challenges and follow the developments we see in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e801	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e804	It is often said that the situation of power supply in Norway is difficult. The consumption of electricity increases steadily, new expansion is low, not to say nothing, and it is serious in relation to the power supply. The supplier industry is struggling heavily in the absence of a job, and there are many who have already gone to the downsizing. There is also a risk that we will lose competence in the development of hydropower. This is partly due to the fact that the Storting has already adopted a temporary tax exemption for new hydroelectric power projects. This means that all upgrading projects which do not require concession under the Watercourse Act and all types of hydropower projects which are subject to concession treatment even under watercourse legislation shall be temporarily exempted from investment charges. I understand that there are shared interpretations of, among other things. in the department. It is interpreted that projects treated under the Watercourse Act shall not be exempted. In that case, in my opinion, it is contrary to the wishes of the Storting. Can the Council confirm that the exemption applies to all types of hydropower projects?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e811	Let me first start with the situation description from the representative Hegna. It is true that the issue of the future power balance is becoming more challenging in a free power market – which the Workers' Party was with and raised during the 1990s, and which has also been confirmed through the Nordic power market. A free power market means a situation of scarcer capacity. One may not have an oversized capacity in each country. It is distributed and used, and it will also affect the impact situation. It's a demanding situation that we have to deal with. If it leads to scarcity, it usually means an increase in prices in a free market. But it may also have to do with transmission capacity, and it's a question that the Government has addressed in the Energy Communication. I agree that there are some challenges for the industry that relate to hydropower in the years ahead. That's because we all know that the time of the big power builds is over. There are not so many large power expansions left to deal with, and the few that exist are partly very controversial. That's why there'll be less power expansions and upgrades we'll see in the future. I see that Bent Hegna believes that what the department says about possible investigations related to investment exemption is not in line with the Storting's recommendations. At this point, I will choose to be responsive to the interpretations of the majority of the Grand Duchy of Great Britain about such a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e822	As I have mentioned before, I have called for changes in the framework conditions for the oil sector, towards the Council of State. We have been told several times in the past that the government has understood the seriousness of the situation and will come back to this. But what has happened to counteract the sudden fall in activity, as the Council of State itself said? Unfortunately little or nothing. And now it looks like the government is "saved by the bells," as it is called in good Norwegian, by having a joyful increase in oil prices. But of course we don't know how long it takes. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State whether she does not see the need to have framework conditions for the oil sector, which is one of our most important industries, so that this industry can also survive with low oil prices. Or is it that the government is now gambled that oil prices are going to continue at a high level?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e831	Interestingly, the representative, Mr. Waksdal, implicitly admits that the fall in oil prices was a major contributory cause of the problems we now have in the yard industry. It may sometimes sound as if the CO2 tax itself is the cause of the problem. I agree that one should be concerned with the framework conditions on the base. The industry's seas defined during the spring of this year what it thought were the most important framework conditions. There's no tax coming to the top. Developing new technologies is where the most important thing, then comes the question of improved regulation from the industry side, and then comes the tax and tax question. TBL has itself prioritized in that order. In the revised national budget, the government decided to launch Demo 2000, a technology development programme that has so far received a very good response in the industry and which also appears to trigger a number of resources from the industry. In addition, we proposed in our amendments to the legislation in terms of both more predictability in concession rounds, shares in the North Sea exploration, and the length of the extraction permits, which industry sees as a very important point. These are points which industry has considered important, but which have received little attention in the political debate. With regard to the issue of taxes and taxes, the Government of the budget has chosen to reduce the CO2 tax part and to set up the production tax in such a way that it can actually contribute to the creation of more jobs in the fields where possible. The charge is escalated most and most rapidly in those fields where there is the greatest chance that it will increase activity. In addition, it comes with the yard industry, as the representative Akssen mentioned earlier. Overall, I believe that these measures will be able to bring us reasonably well through the state of the art industry now. And as I said in my post, from the late harvest next year, there could be new measures going on from the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e844	The government and the Minister of Energy are very concerned about alternative energy sources. And that's what we think in the right is great. But what is the reason why the Government is not properly committed to research in the budget? It puzzles me a little bit that this is not a match between what they mean and what they rate. As far as alternative energy sources are concerned, I had a question to the Minister of Energy not long ago in Stortinget that went on, among other things. the way in which we were going to get the message. Obviously, we can increase the appropriations very much without getting the result we want. We have to bet on what it is possible to get the most response, and it is in our opinion heat pumps and natural gas. The Minister of Energy sees the light that the Right sees when it comes to campaigning for marketing, among other things. heat pumps? The Minister of Energy is probably aware that by replacing about 10 TWh of oil-fired plants with heat pumps, we will meet the Kyoto agreement. So here we have a unique opportunity to go straight to what is our challenge in the next few years, to meet the Kyoto requirement, but then we have to work in a completely different and much smarter way than what we've seen the Government do now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e853	I noticed that the right is very concerned about the research appropriations. And when you heard Mr. Sanner's comments earlier today, you would almost think that the government in this draft budget has cut research appropriations sharply compared to previous years. That's not the case. The government has, on the contrary, increased research appropriations every year in relation to what has happened under previous governments. Then we have come into a situation where, through the budget negotiations, we have had a reduction in research appropriations, but continue to increase research appropriations relatively much compared to last year. So the situation description from the Right might ask questions about it. I believe the research appropriations are important, and I am prepared to respond to the comments of the majority of the Storting on the issue of increased investment in research at CO2-free gas power plants. It will also be reflected in the dialogue to be held by the Ministry with the Research Council on the use of funds for next year. As regards the question of heat pumps and heaters, I agree with the representative Johnsen that this is an important topic. I have also said that to the representative earlier in a Question Time response. It is a high priority on the part of the authorities as part of the grant schemes. In the case of heaters at all, because it is clear that in the case of getting more energy based on water-borne heat, or covering more of the heating purpose from things other than electricity, it can be done in several different ways. Heat pumps are an important part of the heaters. I have noticed the views of the representative Johnsen on this earlier on the commercial marketing of heat pumps, and take them with me. We are discussing the organisation of this work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e865	My first question is related to the Oil Directorate and the Norwegian authorities' efforts in relation to health, environment and safety. From the oil workers' side, a stronger follow-up is called for in relation to health, the environment and safety – a feeling that there are not enough resources in the Oil Directorate to do a proper job in this area. I would then like to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy in relation to health, environment and safety: does she think that this is well enough taken care of, not least in the light of the signature action that has now taken place, where 5,000 oil workers require lower retirement age on the basis of the security problem? The second question relates to state ownership. During the budget negotiations with the Labour Party, there have been a number of complaints that Statkraft should be given a freer room, that they should be able to invest more. What is SV's concern in this context is that one will have the same passivity from the General Assembly, that is, the Council of State, as one has when it comes to Statoil, where one can do exactly what one wants without the Norwegian authorities intervening. Thus, one risk is that Statkraft will not only buy up in nuclear power stations, but one can actually become a co-owner in coal-fired power stations down in Europe if one does not have any steering signal from Norwegian authorities. My question to the Council of State will be: will the Council of State, in connection with the freedom of action now granted to State power, support the development of guidelines relating to climate and the environment?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e876	The Ministry of Oil and Energy has also received views from part of the trade union movement on health, environmental and safety issues on the base. They have been sent to the Minister for Municipal Affairs, who is the constitutionally responsible for that part of the operation on the base, whether or not they are included in the budget under the Ministry of Oil and Energy. My general starting point is that the main objective which has been set and which will also be established in the years to come is that the health, environmental and safety rules are to be complied with on a Norwegian pedestal. I have no reason today to believe anything other than that it has been adequately cared for. With regard to the power industry and the power market, restructuring in the power industry is taking place very quickly also in Norway. It is true that, through the decisions that may be taken in the Grand Duchy, State power can now have a financial strength, which can be used in various ways. One way to use it is to be a potential public owner in the future Norwegian power market. The restructuring is, as I said, very rapid. Unfortunately, municipalities and counties sell power plants quite quickly – and SV is also involved in that dance, I see, in Akershus – they sell power plants out when it happens. It is clear that having a strong government body that can be an important public owner in the Norwegian power market can be important in the years to come. This is of the things that the Government has stressed in the proposition that is being dealt with in the Great Government around the industrial development of State Power, and that we are going to be engaged in in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e885	I perceive that the Council of State is trying to explain away a clear reduction in the government’s increase effort. Enoch was to be a principal for the Government, and now is being pulled aside throughout the year's allocation. What should have been used for this year’s action should therefore be used for next year’s action. Overall, it must mean a significantly lower bet on an island.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e890	As the Ministry has also explained in the recent ageing submitted to the Stortinget, a limited proportion of the funds are paid during 1999. But it is clear that a good part of the money that is within this chapter is disposed of and bound up by given commitments. The undertakings offered constitute 100 pst. coverage of the total amount of grants available in 1999. But also what you have had of transfers from earlier this year, is completely disposed of when we come to the end of the year, if we now get the expected allocation, which will happen at the end of this month.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e895	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e898	The 1997 Kyoto Agreement requires the largest developed countries to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 5.2 pst. from 1990 levels by 2012. The Progress Party notes that there is considerable uncertainty in the different research environments about and, where appropriate, to what extent human-made activity affects the global climate. The Progress Party is therefore pleased that international groups are also using their resources to support climate research and thus provide a wider and more objective scope for climate research than the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change can. The United Nations Panel on Climate Change also indicates that the climate has changed in previous times as a result of completely natural variations. Cold periods have been followed by heat, and vice versa, and ice ages have come and gone completely without human influence and political decisions. A number of researchers, scientists and also the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change are far from sure whether anthropogenic emissions are the cause of the global temperature increase. Nevertheless, there are several politicians who want to get the greenhouse gases to become securities, at billions, without it likely to have any impact on the climate. The Kyoto Agreement is just an environmental alibi for so-called environmental politicians. The Kyoto agreement has several sides. Following the recent climate conference in Bonn, the issue of the construction of nuclear power stations in developing countries has become serious; the construction of nuclear power stations is free of CO2 and thus an alternative to coal power and oil. The Kyoto Agreement provides for support for the deployment of nuclear power stations in developing countries. Several heavy nations, with the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom at the head, want this opportunity. If the outcome of the Kyoto agreement is that nuclear power stations are being built in unstable unstable countries, I am getting very much thought, which also the environmental protection organisations and other politicians should become. In my view, any nuclear power plant should be built where there are stable ground conditions in countries with high technical competence, good economy in terms of operation and maintenance, stable political conditions internally and also stable political relations with their neighbouring countries. The construction of nuclear power stations in developing countries is really to gamble with a possible real global pollution. If the Kyoto agreement is ratified by many enough countries and is put to death, greenhouse gas trading will be an important element, but not so important that it can stop hurricanes, as the representative Stoltenberg believes. What I'm referring to here is a chronicle in today's business on November 13 under the heading «The stock market can stop hurricanes». In the chronicle, Stoltenberg refers to a hurricane called Orissa, which was built in India, and which led to the death of several thousand people. It becomes quite strong when, first in the chronicle, it is clearly suggested that the hurricane is a result of greenhouse gas emissions and the greenhouse effect, but the strongest is nevertheless the end of the chronicle, where Stoltenberg writes: ‘Without allowance trading, the Kyoto Agreement is not implemented. It will be a serious setback for the climate, and we have to prepare for several hurricanes of the type Orissa”. To conclude that there will be more hurricanes without the Kyoto agreement, which includes trading of greenhouse gas allowances, is to shoot high over targets. Playing on people's feelings and not on facts is very worrying. In today's Business Thursday 25 November, Professor Øystein Noreng and researcher Per Anker-Nilssen wrote that the frequency and strength of hurricanes are not increasing, although the adverse effects are. It is noted that in the United States there has been no increase in the recorded number of powerful hurricanes in the past 80 years, or for that part in flooding or drought. Human and economic adverse effects of storms are increasing because the earth's population is increasing, especially in coastal areas. It can be hard to predict, especially about the future. One example I would like to point out is that in 1958 at the Geneva Conference on the Law of the Sea, Norway’s geological surveys made a statement that it was possible to ignore the possibility of the presence of coal, oil or sulphur on the continental shelf along the Norwegian coast. We all know how it went. Ten years later, the first large Norwegian oil find was made on a Norwegian base, and 20 years later Norway was one of the major oil and gas producers in the world. Predictions of the future, whether oil or climate, are difficult – probably so difficult that the decision should not be left to experts alone.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e922	This autumn's budgetary work has been somewhat different with the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre. This has called for both flexibility and willingness to cooperate. The cooperation parties did not have much opportunity to change the budget after the framework was laid down. Initially, the Workers' Party wanted some major redeployments within our bet areas, but this was not allowed to do with the funds that we eventually had at our disposal. Since I am the case rapporteur for the chapter on environmental research, I would like to make a few points that, after all, are positive. It is important that the Government continues to charge recruitment grants to female researchers, something the Right Party and the Advance Party will withdraw from the budget. It is equally important that we continue to focus on international environmental protection research. The Progress Party will also have this out of the budget. The Labour Party believes that the Government has followed closely the promises of its environmental policy. After looking up in the Newspaper yesterday, I tend to support the research environments that criticise the government's environmental policy, among others. environmental research. We know that this research should in particular provide us with knowledge of climate change, the protection and use of biodiversity, as well as health and environmentally hazardous chemicals. While the Workers' Party had government power, among other things, research into environmental protection as one of the areas of activity. In fact, increased research and development funded by the Ministry of the Environment by more than 50 pst. in the 1990s and up to 1997. Now that we know that the research institutes have problems keeping highly skilled researchers because of insufficient funding for research tasks, it is regrettable that the government has not found room in the 2000 budget proposal for increases in the basic appropriations for the institutes either. Environmental research institutes have a central role as knowledge providers for the management of environmental protection. In the light of the concerns I have now raised in the field of environmental research, it was of great importance for the Workers' Party, in cooperation with the government parties, to find funds for next year's budget to at least ensure continued research on large predators, and that the Norwegian Institute of Natural Research, NINA, is the institution to continue this work. This is important, as the debate on grazing and predators has been and is a heated topic in almost the whole country. If we are to meet the objectives of the Berne Convention, and if we are to meet our political objectives, we must bet on more opportunities at the same time. Lack of knowledge creates myths and rootstocks for vision. When the myths become truths, this creates counterpoles that will dominate any debate. Here, more research can help give us some important answers. Both administrators and not least politicians need more knowledge to implement adopted predatory policies. There is also a need for more information for the population. Research on the relationship between humans and predators, with particular emphasis on wolves – stock development and stock data, prevention and conflict mitigation strategies – are areas that we all need to know more about. I don't think it's possible to research the right political decisions, but basic knowledge will give us and the administration better conditions to make the right choices. This type of research has a long-term perspective and therefore needs continuity. It was then important for the Workers' Party that more funds were spent, so that predatory research did not stop. Now it remains to be understood that environmental protection research must be a focus of next year's budgets. Finally, I would like to recommend to the State Council of the Ministry of Oil and Energy to note the majority of the Committee's comments on the tidal energy project in Hammerfest.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e945	Norway is in the lucky position that we almost flood with energy. At the same time, we have a government that does not have the ability to convert this amount of energy to the benefit of Norway. This is tragic. But I expect the Storting will tell the Government where to stand in terms of exploiting the energy we have. At the same time, I would like to pay a little visit to the representative Aksensen, because he said from this pulpit that it was the government's fault that we, among other things, were. had not received gas power plants in Norway. That's not exactly right. It was the Workers' Party which put forward proposals in this Chamber on 8 June 1977 that the SFT should be the body for determining the quantity of emissions. And the Workers' Party knew very well at the time that the door was closed. So it's a little bit like hiding behind a locker when they go out and say that they were first to come out with gas power, while they actually helped close the door, to relax in their own party and go to the elections with a group. That was the reason for that proposal. But I also have another visit to the Workers' Party. They showed in the last year’s budget, in the recommendation of the Financial Committee, that ‘fees increases affect price growth’. And the Workers’ Party believes that ‘the outlook for the Norwegian economy next year suggests that one should be careful with tax increases’. And on the other hand, ‘The working party is therefore in favour of significant simplifications in the charging scheme in relation to the Government’s proposal. In total, the Workers' Party's proposal for charging arrangements provides for some 2,9 billion reliefs. crowns in relation to the arrangements of the Government.’;» That's what they said last year. It's this year we're really facing challenges in business. That's when the notices come. It's now about making sure that business has something to rot with. They further stated in the opinion of the Financial Committee: «The budget effect of the Workers' Party's fee arrangements is a total relief of approximately 2,9 billion. 1999 crowns, of which a substantial part will relate to business. The annual impact on business of rising electricity taxes and the introduction of base charges on fuel oil amounts to 840 million. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Eight hundred forty million. kr was the specific amount that they announced last year. Next year, when the crisis really occurs in the Norwegian offshore industry and especially in the yard industry and the companies that depend on it again, they add 600 million to the government's budget proposal. NOK 3,5 billion. It's a pitcher that neither I nor anyone in the opposition understands. It just has to be the Workers' Party that is able to explain it to itself. I think they have trouble explaining it to others at least. It is in my opinion a treatment of business that the business community should have escaped from the Labour Party. I hope therefore this is the last time that the Workers' Party is involved in this fee increase. I am pleased that the representative of Stoltenberg could tell you that in reality the electricity charge should have increased by twelve times the amount it is increased by now, but he said he would not agree to it. It's a relief for Enterprise Norway to hear it from the Workers' Party. I thank you for that information and hope that we can see the future brighter when it comes to the budgetary comparisons that the Workers' Party might include with its centre than we have experienced this time. The downhill throw that the Workers' Party did was not well done.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e966	The government does not see environmental protection policy as a burden as it is our regrettable task to turn over to businesses, households and government. Environmental protection policy is about the fundamental right of citizens to a good environment and to knowledge that enables them to choose environmentally sound and environmental protection policies are sound social economy. It provides long-term profitability to integrate environmental values into the charging system and into the economic system elsewhere in the various sectors, and not least to anchor them at local level. The Government has submitted a budget to the Ministry of the Environment with a growth of 5.3 pst. when the State Environmental Fund is excluded from the calculations. The main action is related to action against health and environmental hazardous chemicals, cultural memory protection and predatory game management. Environmental protection policy also goes beyond the Ministry of the Environment's own budget. It is good that we also see a clear growth in the allocations for environmental purposes by other departments, and that the Ministry of Fisheries and the Ministry of Oil and Energy are presenting sectoral environmental action plans, as the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Transport did last year. The government also makes a number of proposals that distort the tax system in an environmentally friendly way. The government proposes to increase the electricity charge by 2.5 cents per year. kWh in order to limit energy consumption and to introduce a base tax on fuel oil of 19 øre per. litres to counteract a transition from electricity to oil. At the same time, we increase the deduction and the minimum deduction. We are pleased that the bulk of the population supports us in this important shift from red to green taxes. The government is also increasing efforts for energy savings. The Ministry of the Environment's budget includes: through support for municipal and county climate and energy planning and for projects with environmentally efficient solutions in the energy sector. The government is further stepping up its efforts towards health and environmental hazardous chemicals. First of all, we're going to get rid of the most dangerous chemicals. We propose to strengthen chemical management, including: to increase efforts in the implementation of restrictions on use, fees and strict concession requirements towards the highest priority chemicals. The concession system under the pollution law is an important instrument and has mainly worked well. However, we see that in some areas it should be better, and I am therefore in the process, together with the SFT, of reviewing how this system can be better exploited in order to implement a more stringent chemicals policy. We propose to impose charges on the chlor-organic solvents trichloroethylene and tetrachloroethylene. The government will reduce the overall risk associated with the use of chemicals. Vulnerable groups, such as children, must be better protected. Our principle in terms of cleaning up old sins and PCBs is that it is the responsibility of the polluter to cover such costs, and that the state should only engage financially in cases where the polluter cannot be identified. I have now launched a new strategy, which means increasing power in this work. An important part will be to get those responsible, including the sectoral authorities, to continue their efforts. The government will provide the work of repairing saved buildings and structures. The government will strengthen the work of restoring Bryggen in Bergen and continuing the work on the stave churches. We propose certain changes to the tax system to stimulate increased protection efforts by owners of peaceful dwellings and dwellings in areas regulated for ‘special area conservation’. The government attaches great importance to ensuring public access to coastal and coastal zones. As one of several instruments, I have recently sent out a letter that intensifies the dispensation practice, and I am happy to have the support of the Committee for this. The 2000 budget also proposes strengthening the activities of the counties in this field. In the management of wild game, the Government emphasises a differentiated use of the instrument to achieve the objective of viable wild game populations and active agriculture. The replacement item for robber damage has been reinforced. I am pleased with the majority's support for prevention efforts, where stock registration is an important element because it strengthens the knowledge base for the societal debate and for political decisions. The evolution of its time in the field of wolves shows that knowledge and information are becoming increasingly important in the management of wild game. The government will further develop efforts to anchor Local Agenda 21 at all levels of government. The government will develop the role of municipalities and county councils in energy policy. Support for the voluntary organisations in the Local Agenda 21 work will be strengthened, as will operational support for the environmental protection organisations. The Government proposes increasing efforts in urban and urban development and will stimulate cooperation between municipalities and urban regions to develop a common transport, development and localisation policy for trade and other services. Norway has undertaken new commitments in the fight against acid rain in the new protocol of the ECE Convention signed in Gothenburg in December. There is good reason to rejoice that countries are jointly approaching the solution to acid rain problems — one of the first to be put on the agenda by environmentalists.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e999	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e1003	Before the change of government, the environment was one of the areas where the centre parties in general and the Left in particular created the greatest expectations of a dramatic change in policy. The policy pursued by the Workers' Party was almost immoral and at least to the detriment of the environment, and now the centre parties were going to change the course completely. They created expectations that have not been fulfilled in any way. The changes that have occurred are of little or no importance. Mostly, the environmental policy pursued in Norway has continued in recent years. It would be an advantage for the debate on the central parties to admit it, and admit that one has not been able to live up to expectations. That's why it was actually a pleasure to read that yesterday, 8 December, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection admitted that you haven't been able to live up to your expectations. The question is whether the Council agrees with the State Secretary that expectations have not been met. What was the problem with the Secretary of State's statements, however, was that he blamed the Stortinget, and said that it was the cause of the Stortingen that one had not managed to live up to expectations. The problem is that, in a system of parliamentaryism, it is a little difficult for the Government to say in the long run that it is really a completely different policy we want to pursue and, far on the way, try to waive responsibility for the policy that is being pursued, without taking the consequences of it. The next question is: does the Council agree with what the Secretary of State says, namely that it is the cause of the Storting that an environmental policy is not pursued with which one is satisfied? The State Secretary says that a lot of our environmental policy is stopped by the bulk of the population, and that must mean that there is only little left, and therefore little majority. Are you satisfied with that, or is it so that the Secretary of State is wrong? It would be an advantage if the Council of State could now clean up this issue — whether it is the government taking responsibility for the policy it is pursuing or whether it does not.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e1012	There is no doubt that the Government takes responsibility for the policy of the Government. In a country with freedom of the press, it is not the person who is being interviewed who chooses the heading of an interview. I think we should also be able to have that with us in this debate. However, I think it must be law on the part of the Government, when you are subjected to massive criticism from a researcher, who was in the newspaper one day or two before, to point out that part of the conditions that are being criticised are areas where the Government originally wanted to go beyond what the Storing wanted to be in. I think it is to minimize the changes that have occurred in environmental policy, when it is said that almost nothing has happened, and that expectations are not at all met. There is no doubt that, among other things: in the area of green taxes and in the tax system, from red to green taxes, a number of important things have happened under this government. The last contribution, to which we are pleased to have received support from the Workers' Party, is to increase the electricity charge. At the same time, we have also previously agreed to impose a final treatment charge on waste, which is not least important in relation to emissions of the air-hazardous gas methane. We have also gone a lot further in taxing some health and environmental hazardous chemicals. I also believe that there is a basis for saying that there is another offensive in relation to the predatory policy of this government. There is no doubt that the focus on prevention, on the practical testing of prevention measures and not least on stock registration is a different and more offensive approach. A number of measures have also been taken to mitigate conflicts between communities with major predators and central authorities. At the same time, there is no doubt that a minority government in some contexts must find compromises with the Storting. What is new, however, under this government is that the government in a number of environmental issues would be willing to go beyond what the Biggest is.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e1025	I noticed in the articles of the Council of State that the Council of State did not have time to say anything about climate policy. Last week it was announced that the Nansen Centre for Environment and Remote Measurement in Bergen can demonstrate that the ice in the Arctic is getting thinner and smaller in scale. What has been established is that the Arctic multi-year period is melting, and that over the last 20 years, the area has fallen by 14 pst. According to researchers at the Center, there are clear indications that global warming is beginning to occur in the Arctic. The results obtained by the Centre are based on observations over a short period of time. In spite of this, however, researchers believe that if the trend continues, the Arctic ice can melt down completely over a 100-year period. Forecasts of trend prolongations are popular. Just to take one example: if the number of fishermen goes down at the same speed as it has since 1945, in 2010 there will be zero fishermen left. At the same time, the export of Norwegian fish products will have reached a sum of 36 billion kroner. In other words, we start to approach the well-known prediction from Kjell Aukrust in the 1960s, when he found out that if growth in Norwegian private cars continued, there would be 17 000 driverless cars on the road in 1999. [[Laughter]] Does the Council support this Kjell Augarust production from the Nansen Centre, and in case: Will the Council implement new unilateral national measures to further reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which will again affect Norwegian industry?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e1034	It is not quite right that I should not mention climate policy in my contribution, I was so much concerned with it during what is going on at energy and climate levels at municipal level, which will be an important contribution to reaching the commitments that Norway has made, and which we have every reason to believe and hope will be more stringent in the years ahead. In addition, the Government has focused on measures in relation to wet organic waste in this budget, because we know that methane emissions are a significant contribution to Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. Now I don't belong to those who use Kjell Aukrust's name as a shell word – rather the opposite. But I think that the research we have now received on the table underlines the importance of taking the precautionary principle seriously in climate policy and debate. Unfortunately, we see that climate change problems are coming, and it is unfortunately likely that man-made emissions are part of it. That's the emissions we have the opportunity to do something about. That is why it is important that, both in the interests of countries in other parts of the world, which may be even harder hit by any climate change than Norway will be, and not least in the interests of the challenges we will face if we choose not to address this, these problems take seriously. Nor is it the case that this is something that Norway stands alone about. It is not that Norway is an isolated island, the only country where action is taken against climate change. With a negotiated Kyoto Protocol and with a strong political will to conclude the negotiations during the coming year and ratify the Protocol, businesses in all the rich countries will be faced with clear demands for their emissions to be reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e1043	In the past, the Left was met with great respect for its offensive environmental policy. Now, the Minister for the Environment of the Left meets criticism of the lack of initiatives and actions both from the environmental organisations and from the Labour Party and the Right of the Stortinget. The Council of State says that it must be allowed to say that it is the Storting that has stopped initiative when it is actually the case. But if the Council of States continues to blame the Storting, we have to get on the table what this criticism of the majority of the population is actually about. I am unable to identify the major, comprehensive and groundbreaking environmental reforms that would have been made by the central government, which would prove the hard-hitting centre of criticism aimed at the Workers' Party before the elections, and what would be an offensive environmental policy under a new leadership. On the contrary, the majority of the population have raised questions in a number of areas where the Government does not show initiative. Let me just highlight the PCB issue, where the bulk of the population two years ago remedied the Government for lack of initiative. In this budget position, too, the Government is clearly informed by the Storting that action is now expected. Right and SV suggest 10 million. kr to start the PCB cleanup, the government is doing very little. And what about the environmental challenges in North-West Russia? What offensive initiatives are being taken by the central government to advance nuclear security cooperation and address the huge environmental problems in that area? We also see cuts in energy research. If you really want to invest in new renewable energy sources, it's not the right way to cut energy research, as you've come along with what was actually the government's proposal. If you're still going to owe the Storting, you have to put documentation on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e1054	I have allowed myself to point out that in a number of areas on the part of the Government, there has been a desire to go beyond what you have been given a majority in the Grand Duchy. That the representative Jan Tore Sanner chooses to interpret it as that I owe to the Stortinget, will be on his own account. Concrete examples are the development of Upper Otta, which is the Eastern Region, and it is not least the principle that all greenhouse gas emissions face a cost, for example. through a continuous charge of CO2. Then the government's initiative on PCB clean-up is requested. I have to say that parts of the criticism that are being raised, I'm surprised, first of all, because it seems that part of the criticism is taking away from the polluter-pays principle. Part of the criticism is based solely on targets, how much money goes to PCB clearing over public budgets. And I have to say that I'm getting pretty scared given that it looks like – at least some people think so – that all cleanup is going to be done at the state's expense. Only for the cleaning up of PCBs in marine sediments suggest preliminary estimates that it could be a place between 5 and 15 billion kroner. For me, it is important that the principle that the polluter should be involved and pay and contribute to cleaning where it is possible to identify a polluter must be based here as well. We know that this type of cleanup is complicated and animals, and therefore we have speeded up the preparations to clean up the areas that are the worst contaminated. But we have experience, including: from cleanup outside Haakonsvern in Bergen, which shows that even the ten million increase proposed from Right and SV is a fraction of the sum that goes to clean up in a single case. Therefore, I hope and believe that there is agreement that the polluter-pays principle is at stake, and that we must both clean up and prevent new emissions, as the Government has stated.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e1063	I would like to comfort the Minister for the Environment a little bit in relation to the criticism that comes from the Right Party and the Labour Party when it comes to the budget proposals that they have contributed to themselves, which have meant reductions in the environment and energy, just as has been said. Then I will move out into the world. Now there was a WTO negotiations in Seattle that broke down. In my view, it was quite positive. What I'm concerned about is Norway's role in international negotiations on the environment. My impression is that both with regard to the Minister for Environment's own role in climate policy, and the positioning of the Norwegian government in relation to the WTO, the environment is not particularly high. It also looks when it comes to the use of the petroleum fund, that one invests most of the money without having either ethical or environmental policy guidelines. So my first challenge to the Minister of Environment is to Norway as an environmental nation in relation to international policy and to being a speculator. The second problem is related to the PCB problem, which has been a lot of progress today, and it is positive. Because, as the Minister of Environment probably also knows, the Swedish Environment Agency has done a very good job of detecting problems related to this, and actually done a job that the Government should do to a greater extent itself. Of course, the President has to pay – no doubt about it. But that principle must not prevent the government from getting speed on the cleanup, which is the concern of, among other things. Right and SV in this case. And since the 10 million. kr was commented on, I will mention that SV had 157 million. kr to this in our original budget. What can we expect from the revised national budget in relation to this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e1074	Let me first say that I am a little surprised at the presentation of Norway's role in the WTO negotiations, mainly because environmental considerations were actually an important part of the mandate and the Norwegian delegation worked for. Let me give you a few examples. Firstly, there is now a very strong international power struggle that is about not to end the negotiations on trade in genetically modified organisms and products containing them through the Biodiversity Convention, but that this should actually be moved into the WTO negotiations. There's no doubt that it would be very unfortunate, with an environmental point of departure. Norway has a very clear view of this and has also played a clear role in avoiding it. From the Norwegian side, we have also stressed the importance of making environmental analyses a basis for the entire WTO work, and we have not least stood firm on the principle that the WTO should not be the overarching international environmental agreements. I'm probably a little bit, maybe not surprised, but I'm questioning the attitude that it's good that you didn't come up with a solution, because unfortunately, those who lose the most to the fact that there are no international traffic rules for trade are not the rich, but the poorest countries. With regard to PCBs, I do not want to put forward proposals that come into the revised national budget. I would also like to say that I am pleased with the attention that the Federation of Nature Conservation has contributed to the community during its last few summers. However, I must nevertheless be allowed to suggest that most of the information they have put on the table is information they have obtained from the SFT's own review of where this type of pollution exists. That's exactly the part of the work that we're now giving priority to. We're trying to get on the table an overview of where the most polluted places are, and get in place a good plan for cleaning up there.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e1083	The Council of State was to reply to my first line by pointing out that there was freedom of the press in this country, so that she could not relate to the title of the interview with the Secretary of State, the title of which is: «Ceases the Stortinget». Now, the problem is that there is absolute coverage for the headline in the State Secretary's interview, so I'm afraid I have to repeat my question: Does she agree or disagree with her State Secretary? Because he spends a lot of time explaining that the government is losing a lot of its environmental policy in Stortinget. That's the problem. And on direct questions from the journalist who asks, ‘So it’s primarily the big crowd’s fault that the government can’t live up to expectations?’, the State Secretary answers, ‘Yes.’ Then it’s a very good headline to write, ‘Relax on the Big City.’ So the question is, does the Council of State agree with the Secretary of State, or does the Council of State disagree with the Secretary of State? We have to get an answer to that. The second is these things you're referring to where you've lost. There we can discuss whether the environment has actually lost. The expansion of Upper Otta now adopted is exactly the extension proposed by Vern Obere Otta. You take advantage of a 40 meter warehouse, and the water is going to run more naturally now, after expansion than before, because the warehouses in the dam were used to hold the water back before. Now it's going to run evenly throughout the year. So it becomes more natural with expansion than without expansion, when one first has a dam. And in the case of field of fire, it's not like the government has said no to field of fire. The government said yes to go on with the zero option, i.e. shooting field on the Hierkin. That is why the government parties voted against our proposal for an enlarged National Park at Hjerkinn. But that's not what I'm asking now, I'm really asking if the Council of State agrees with its Secretary of State – that's what matters.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e1094	I do not agree with a presentation that states that we should have lost most of the things we have proposed in Stortinget. But there is no doubt that, unlike under the previous government, there are some issues in which the government is willing to go further in an environmentally friendly direction than the majority of the population, and it must be allowed to point out. I think it takes a very high degree of creativity to question whether the environment has actually lost the decision made in those cases, that it should come forward, but leave it at that. My main point is that it must be the law of a council of states and of a government that is criticized by researchers in specific areas where one has actually had a different position from that of the majority of the population, to draw attention to it. Then some questions have been asked in the course of the debate that I have not hesitated to answer. Let me just take very briefly the opportunity to also sign out a little bit of what Jan Tore Sanner asked about when it was about nuclear clean-up in Russia. There is no doubt that not least the economic situation in Russia has made part of this work more difficult than we had hoped it would be. What is within the budget today is particularly important in relation to the impact assessments of possible accident scenarios at the Mayak nuclear plant, and not least in relation to the establishment of an international radioactive database in the northern seas. Not too long ago, I took over as head of Barents' cooperation on the environment. One of the things I hope I can use this lead period for is to have close contact with, among other things. EU countries to provide an international understanding of the need for a fissure layer to address the major environmental problems in north-west Russia, including in the field of nuclear clean-up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e1105	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e1109	It has been said earlier in the debate that this is the last energy debate in this century, at least here in the United Kingdom. I don't know if there were any discussions about power policy in Stortinget during the last century, but I'm sure that the possibilities of exploiting Norwegian footfalls were a debated and interesting topic. As seen, there were also major changes in the power market of the time. At this turn of the century, the power market in Europe, and also in Norway, is once again changing. The countries of the continent are liberalizing. The result is that prices fall sharply, and companies merge and grow. We also see the same thing here in the country. Today, we have many small and medium-sized power producers. All over the world there are discussions about mergers of power companies. It is increasingly fierce competition for customers. The working medium is the lowest price possible for the customers. Another development is that electricity is increasingly considered as a commodity in a market, in line with all other goods. In the past, electricity was regarded more as an infrastructure, a competitive advantage for, among others. Norwegian industry. That time is over. Now electricity is a product we're going to make the most money on. As I said, Norwegian power companies are mostly small. Even State power, which is the second largest power company in Norway, is small. In Europe, even in the Nordic context, State power is not a particularly large company. In this liberalized market, there is a fight for customers, and it's a fight for size. If we are to secure a large company in Norway at least, it is important that we have a policy to develop State power. In this context, it is reassuring that the majority of the Committee will convert the entire State-owned loan into equity. The government refers in the State budget to the need to strengthen State power in order to meet competition from the outside world. Yes, there is even a statement in the budget: «The Government considers that, in this context, there is a need to give State power greater financial autonomy.» The strange thing – not to say alarmingly – is that the government is simultaneously taking dividends from the company of around 70 p.m. This is not related to the assessment of the need to strengthen Statkraft. Such treatment of an industrial company shows a lack of ideas about developing and strengthening the company. I would therefore like to end by stressing the importance of developing a long-term and stable dividend policy for Statkraft as for all other state-owned companies.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e1131	Today we are discussing the budget of the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Environment. In my view, both budgetary positions, including those resulting from the agreement with the Workers' Party and subsequent re-priorities during the work of the Committee, show energy and environmental responsibility and willingness to take new and important action in both of these sectors. The government promoted towards the Storting in its budget line proposals for a series of measures to ensure an energy policy aimed at reducing the growth of energy consumption, increasing the investment in alternative energy and improving the use of available energy. In the draft State budget, the Government again promoted a modest increase in the electricity charge as one of several interventions to meet an ever-growing energy consumption. It is therefore gratifying that the Workers' Party also joined this by means of the budgetary agreement with the government parties, thereby ensuring a majority of the Government's arrangements for the electricity tax. The last proposal for an increase in the electricity charge was promoted, which was rejected by the bulk of the storage, among other things. reasond that it was to be seen as a fiscal extra tax and that it would be unlucky in social terms. The government has taken the consequences of the objections from the majority of the population and has made proposals to counteract any negative impact, from a policy point of view. Once both of these considerations have been taken care of, among other things. The right last pointed out that they had to, therefore, it surprises me that the right also this time categorically refuses to participate in a modest increase in the electricity charge. The situation in the shipbuilding and supply industries is worrying. I am therefore pleased that the Government brings together a majority of significant measures to mitigate this situation, and that through the agreement with the Workers' Party, it facilitates a significant increase in the number of action sites in these industries, approximately equivalent to this. 3500 places. This will be of great importance to those affected by the problems posed by the drought of the word and the lower level of investment on the pedestal. In its draft budget, the Government provides for improved framework conditions for players on Norwegian pedestals to stimulate increased activity and initial investment. The proposals, which bring together a majority with the Workers' Party, involve inter alia: a reduction in the CO2 tax and a phase-out of the production charge for individual fields. I am pleased to note that the proposals are also welcomed by the Right, through its comments that the measures are important steps in the right direction. The budget continues the grant to the Technology Fund by 100 million. SEK, of which 30 million. kr is given in the form of warrants for commitments. Research and development of new technologies are one of many important contributions in order to ensure increased activity on Norwegian soil, and an effective instrument in response to the difficult situation in the shipbuilding and supply industries, which are characterised by uncertainty in relation to, among others. job losses. Maintaining competence and jobs in the offshore industry is important. An important contribution in this context will be to strengthen the export of Norwegian oil and gas technology and to support Norwegian companies in their work internationally. It is therefore positive that the majority, with the exception of the Progress Party, are pooling to increase support for INTSOK, which is a central player in this context. Finally, I would like to highlight the Government's proposal for balancing the transmission charges on the network by placing 10 million. kr. This will contribute positively to districts with disproportionately high transmission tariffs, with increased costs for consumers as a result. However, there is a need to further increase these measures. I am therefore pleased with the government's signals that this will be continued and reinforced. I would just like to point out the hurt that some in this House express when they are reminded that they have actually said no to a number of good and significant environmental initiatives from the Government. In view of the nature of the cases, I actually understand that you know such a wound. With this, I would recommend the majority's draft budget for the year 2000 for the current Ministry of Oil and Energy. I am pleased to record that the Government has been given almost full support to its budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e1157	We're halfway in this magnification period, and we're in the third week of this decade. The 1990s started with a strong environmental commitment and a strong focus on our environmental problems – with the Brundtland Commission, the Rio Conference and great optimism. But toward the end of this decade, the debate stopped, and we young 1990's environmentalists are frustrated and disillusioned. The green colour of the political parties has faded, and the centre parties, which many of us trusted in environmental policy, have made the biggest ham change of all. Throughout the 1990s, the centre parties have expressed deep dissatisfaction at the environmental performance of the Workers' Party, and they created great expectations for their own efforts. They promised in 1997 a green alternative to the Labour Party Government, where they said no to continued growth in consumption, yes to a stronger commitment to climate action, and promised a lot of new money for environmental action. But the center parties in the government offices for almost two and a half years have been a long disappointment. Their resistance to environmentally hostile growth in consumption has turned to a detachment of consumption and historical growth in electricity consumption. In the latest report from the Future in our hands, Norway is ranked as a jumbo site in a study of ten industrialised countries’ environmental efforts, together with the United States. The report slaughters the environment policy of the Bondevik government. It states that Norwegian air traffic is increasing sharply, the waste volume is rising, and greenhouse gases are moving in the opposite direction to our environmental obligations. The weapons sponsors of the central government in Stortinget, with Gunnar Kvassheim at the head, are desperately trying to convince us today in the debate that there has become an offensive environmental policy after the government change. But unfortunately, the fact is that soon only the political leadership of the Ministry of Environment and a handful of centre politicians in Stortinget have enough microscope to see this offensive. No one else sees this environmental offensive. The report from the Future in our hands does not see this environmental offensive. According to the Newspaper, environmental scientists at NTNU do not see this environmental offensive. Nature and Youth used their national meeting in January this year to honor the Government for the lack of environmental offensive, and Bellonas Frederic Hauge characterises the Government's report on the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state as a complete scandal. Hauge goes so far as to ask the following questions in Dagbladet on 30 October: ‘What are we going to do with a cowardly and environmentally hostile Minister for the Environment?’ I note that in a press release from the Press Office of the Left, 11 November, the Minister for the Environment corrects the environmental penalty for their criticism. I would say it is quite striking when an environmental protection minister believes that the environmental movement has only one strategy, and that is to spread ‘whether and bile’. It's extra striking since she and her governmentmates found it perfectly legitimate to support the environmental movement in any criticism of former workers' party governments. But the perhaps most eloquent attempt to exonerate the government's lack of environmental offensive came, as mentioned countless times here today, in the newspaper yesterday. The State Secretary of the Ministry of the Environment owes it to Stortinget. I would like to ask the following question: Is it the Grand Government's fault that the Government does not propose one penny more for environmental measures than the workers' party governments did? Is it the Grand Government's fault that the government is taking a long way from the business interests in the salmon business? And is it the Grand Government's fault that the government is arguing internally about the management of the wolf? The only thing I can see is the Biggest, is that the Government now has to put forward new measures in the field of waste and outdoor life. The fact that there have been no radical and major structural changes in environmental policy with the central government is correct. But in order to give the Government the full justice, they will also have to pay tribute for what they have done well. They have stood firm against gas power stations, they have fought hard against shooting fields, and they have taken the first steps in the conversion of our energy policy. I believe that one of the most important things that has happened during the budgetary procedure this year is the increase in the electricity charge and the facilitation of making alternative energy sources more competitive on price. This has been done in cooperation with the Workers' Party. It's a conversion to the best for the environment, which would never have happened in cooperation with the right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e1176	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e1179	I would like to comment on some of the points raised during the debate. The representative Stoltenberg mentioned the need for a Nordic energy pricing system. That's a point of view I agree without further ado. It can be done in several ways, but the aim must be to give the most praise to the polluting energy sources in the right way. There has also been a point of power imports today, and I have been told that an open and free power market makes the margins scarcer. But let me mention, for the sake of order, that in 1999 we are not a net importer of power, but a net exporter of power at approx. 1.7 TWh – i.e. not a net importer of coal power, as the Workers' Party's speakers have tried to make a point of today. In addition – as perhaps also a comment to the representative Gjul – I can say that this year, for the first time in several years, the actual consumption of electricity will fall. Let me also comment on what was said here about the level of activity when it came to oil production. Obviously, the decisions that determine oil production over the next two years, which is the top of oil production, were not taken yesterday. They were also not taken last autumn, but they were taken back several years. There's no attempt to blame anyone, it's just an indisputable fact. In this regard, let me say, as the representative of Stoltenberg said in a reply to the Minister for the Environment, that there would have been an advantage if the Workers' Party, in this case, had admitted that the peak of oil production that we are going to see in the next two years was not laid by this government, but it was placed under the Government of the Workers' Party. Let me also say a few things about gas. The government welcomes the increased use of domestic gas, in particular for transport and industry purposes. We've had a dialogue on Hordaland Oil and Gas Centre. I think that they show a good and active commitment in this area, and they also have applications for public support for several projects relating to industry and transport. Several of those applications are interesting. However, there are applications which have to go through a normal application procedure in the NVE and which must be based on the same criteria as for other government grants, among others. that it is a large part of self-financing and that it is good quality in the applications. Let me also finally mention Statkraft. I agree with Mr Hegna that we should strengthen the financial opportunities of the State. That's why I think it's positive that it's now possible to convert the entire loan that Statkraft has. The government has also gone in to extend the loan and guarantee framework for Statkraft by NOK 10 billion. In this regard, we have taken an extraordinary dividend, which is high, and I see, like the representative Hegna, the need for a longer-term dividend policy for State Power. That is what we aim to establish in the next year. But I'm a little surprised by the criticism contained in Hegna's statement about dividends, because today he's going to vote for exactly the same outcome.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e1198	Let me just briefly comment on some of the speeches that have been in the debate. I agree with Gunn Karin Gjul that the 1990s started with great optimism in the field of the environment, but I both hope and believe that there is no reason to be as disappointed as the representative indicated that she was above the status at the end of the 1990s. These include: surveys carried out in Norwegian newspapers showing that environmental problems and issues are likely to have greater media attention today than they have had in a very long time. In addition, my impression is that although perhaps environmental interests have changed somewhat, there is clearly an increasing interest in questions such as: is located in the intersection of health and the environment. People are increasingly concerned with health and environmental chemicals, the availability of clean food, and there is no doubt – I think – that the consumer side in particular is becoming much more obsessive about the environment and environmental criteria in choosing products than we experienced ten years ago. So I hope and believe that the picture is not quite as dark as the representative expressed it. I'm not going to go into polemics when it comes to slaughter or not, but let me just very briefly tell you that the report that the Future in our hands presented did not have a single number that was newer than in 1997. So to the extent that it's a slaughter of the government's environmental policy, it might have to be of a government that was before this. I also record that this is criticism from the environmental movement. And it was just supposed to be missing – it's their job. I hope and believe that we never get a government that avoids critical searchlights from environmental organisations. But what I've been asking for is that they also have a conscious relationship that some proposals from the Government also need active lobbyism in the Stortingen in order not to be weakened in Stortingen's treatment. No matter what one should hope and believe, I have not registered a single environmental movement that has criticized us so strongly that at the same time they have expressed the wish to get the Workers' Party, or, for that matter, the Right, back into the government position.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e1213	Several have not asked for the floor on case No.1. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e1221	It is then to be voted on in case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e1228	During the debate, nine proposals have been put forward. It's: the proposals No 1 and 4, by Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, No. 2, 5 and 9, by Hallgeir H. Langeland, on behalf of Socialist Left Party proposals No. 3, 7 and 8, by Mr Voksdal, on behalf of the Group of the European Progressive Democrats and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats). 6, by Øyvind Waksdal on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Socialist Left Party If someone wants to give an explanation of vote, they should do it now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e1246	I have an explanation of vote on proposal No. 6 under the Ministry of the Environment. This is a proposal from the Party of Advances, the Right and the Socialist Left that the Labour Party had not initially joined because we thought it was covered by a majority remark, but in order to avoid any misunderstanding, I recommend that the Members of the Labour Party vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e1251	It is a good thing that proposal No. 6 now seems to get multiples. That applies to proposal No. 9, which I ask to be sent to the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e1258	I would recommend that the representatives of the central parties vote in favour of proposal No. 6, with the reason that Stoltenberg used when he recommended his group to do the same.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e1263	Then everyone who wanted to give an explanation of vote has done so. The President will now start with the minority proposals, first with the framework independent proposals under Framework Area 12, then with the proposals under the respective framework areas, and finally with the vote. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate the conversion of State Power SF into a limited liability company and the opening of private capital.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e1283	It shall now be votted over the frame area 12. The President will first address proposal No. 2, by the Socialist Left Party, then proposal No. 1, from the right, and finally, it's voted above the setting. Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party says:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e2416	Proposal No. 1, from the right, is taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e4640	There will then be a vote on Framework Area 13 and the framework-independent minority proposals will be taken first. Let's think about proposal No. 9, by the Socialist Left Party, which has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government develop a pilot project on prevention and research-based work in predatory areas, based, inter alia, on the experience from similar problem areas in other countries.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Proposals Nos. 7 and 8, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, to voting. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to wind up the scheme with LA-21 coordinators linked to the Municipalities’ Central Association established in 13 counties. The funds shall be made available to the voluntary organisations in line with the intentions of LA-21.’;» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to separate the commercial activities of the Staten Kartverk as its own company. The new company is transformed into a limited liability company and sold.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e4670	Proposal No. 6, from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party and the Left Party of Socialism, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requests the Government to allocate funds to multi-annual action packages for the control of Gyrodactylus salaris.’ The proposal has now also been approved by the Labour Party and the Centre Parties.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e4684	There is then a vote on the minority proposals in the framework area 13, first on proposal No. 5, by the Socialist Left Party, then by proposal No. 4, from the Right, and finally above the setting. Proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party, addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e6704	Proposal No. 4, from the Right, taken up to the vote. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e10713	The President will draw attention to a minor correction, namely that the Roman numeral character above the last referenced paragraph has fallen into the setting. It's going to be VI.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e10721	That being the case, it is no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e10733	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 60 minutes, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party 25 minutes each, Right 20 minutes, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes each and Left and the representative Steinar Bastesen 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that a replacement of lines be given with up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers for each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e10744	In total, the year's net transport budget is about approx. SEK 15.2 billion. Developments in net appropriations for transport have been strongly declining over the last three years. It's actually so that the total decrease is equal to 23 pst. during those years. The figures for the chapters of the Ministry of Fisheries under the Committee on Transport have also had a negative trend, but one might say that the appropriations have been stabilized. As regards the budget of the Ministry of Fisheries itself, it is in fact a unanimous committee which has increased its appropriations in the budget of the year. The right has increased the allocation of fishing ports in relation to the budgetary agreement between the Centre and the Workers' Party. It's part of the hundreds of millions of bets that the Right has posted in this sector. To the right, there is a strong need for increased efforts to advance the development of our fishing ports. In the right, such increased investment would have a significant economic impact on the value creation of the fisheries sector, which will be very important for Norway both now and in the long term. In this context, the right will point to the document ‘Increased coastal action in Finnmark’, such as: Finnmark County Municipality has developed. Other representatives from the Right will further elaborate on this with fishing ports. This also applies to the matter we have for the treatment of the fast route. It is also obvious that greater resources need to be deployed in the sector of traffic controllers, beacons and markers. I expect the Government to come back to Stortinget with proposals for the necessary funds when the circumstances surrounding the “Sleipner” accident have been clarified. In the context of new tenders in the field of aviation, there has been a not insignificant increase in the allocation for the purchase of services. There has been a lot of noise around the bidding round, not least related to routes and aeroplane types. The right, together with the majority, has a critical comment on some of the consequences of the new round of tenders, in particular on Vardø and Værøy. On the right, when reviewing the National Transport Plan, we also expect a longer-term discussion of Norwegian aviation. The whole idea of the national transport plan is that it should be cross-sectoral and focus on the links between transport systems. For this reason, it is important that the infrastructure at airports – as part of the aviation policy – be discussed in the entirety of which it is part, and then it is natural to do so in the context of the consideration of the national transport plan in spring 2000. Some will probably claim that the reasons for the decline in the budgets for the transport sector are the completion of the Gardermoban and the airport. That's also partly correct. However, looks at a achieved figure in relation to the figures taken into account in the treatment of, for example: Norwegian road and road transport plans in the spring of 1997, the situation is far from light. We don't have the power to achieve one of these goals. In several areas, there is a negative trend. It's obvious that there's now a misunderstanding between the goals we've set and the resources we're putting in. It is a fact that the agreement that the centre made with the Right Spring 1997 had a framework that, if the promises had been kept by the centre parties, would give us a goal achievement that we could all be familiar with. Unfortunately, however, transport has not been an area of central government activity, despite all the promises made in the spring of 1997. The centre parties must therefore assume a considerable responsibility for the developments we are now seeing. There are two graphs in this year's budget proposal that more than the members of the Committee on Transport should read. They're on pages 71 and 72 of the proposition. One graph shows the relationship between traffic work — read traffic on the road — and government appropriations. In brief, it shows that traffic is increasing significantly, while government appropriations are decreasing. If you keep this graph up to another graph on page 72, which shows an accident indicator, you can see that the number of accidents has risen sharply in the period when government appropriations have fallen. It has simply become more dangerous on the road because traffic has increased without an equivalent improvement in road standards. The safety margin between cars has decreased – it is more dangerous to drive on Norwegian roads. This development cannot be solved alone by reducing the speed limits on all our roads. In fact, Norwegian roads do not appear to be exemplary in standard and accident statistics can only be traced back to irresponsible Norwegian drivers. Authorities must also assume their responsibility for improving access to resources in Norwegian transport with a view to improving the standard on Norwegian roads. Here, there is a considerable responsibility on the current government. The right has also pointed to the importance of the transport sector for industrial development in this country. All the contacts that come to the Committee from different business organisations demonstrate this with full weight. It should also be allowed to remind the central government, which is looking and often flagging district-friendliness, that the target number of community costs for districts is only 52 pst. The low level of achievement is clearly one of the reasons for innumerable enquiries from the districts related to the transport sector. There are many in District Norway who had expected something else from a center government. In this way, the learning curve has been fairly steep. I don't think there'll be as many people who believe in any traffic elevators from the center at the next crossroads. In this way, the centre parties have clarified their priorities. It is a pleasure that it now looks like it is going forward both with the NSB BA and with the Railway Station. It is very good that many people travel with the Gardermoban. Obviously, management has done an excellent job here. Of course, the new management should not account for the economic calculations that this house made in its time — with good help from others — and that calculated that this would be Norway’s most profitable railway project. In retrospect, it has shown that it was as far away as possible from what it was possible to get. Let me stress that it's the truth even if a subtractor subtracts from the expenses that the fades in Rome's sports carried out the project. If one uses the Mystery Report, the company will be in a position to serve the debt that the company has in the near future. But all of this we'll come back to at a later stage. I am also pleased that the Department believes that the other investment in railway projects in terms of infrastructure development and new material will be a success also financially. At least I can agree with one thing: The new material is very comfortable and very nice. It is also positive that one now approaches a time when the centre parties also see the need for increased competition on the rail track. The central government shall have a reputation for including in the budget of the year the concept of competitive outsourcing. It's going further than the Workers' Party has ever shown a willingness to do. For a number of years, the right has pointed out that such a competitive outsourcing in the railway sector should be put into service, inter alia. with a view to increasing the pace of efficiency improvement and better supply to consumers. The experience of this house suggests that one should perhaps not be the greatest optimist in terms of the speed of this conversion, but as we Westerners say, there is hope in hanging strings. In addition to the bidding round of the air routes, the quality of Post has been a repetition in the media. Many people around the country have criticised the Post's ability to fulfil its concession obligations. For several years, a used variety of arguments have been used that one has not met the target requirement of 93 pst. by the A-item to the addressee on the day following the placing of the mail. For a while it was the sorting machines that were the reason; in the next round it was Gardermoen, the new airport, that was the reason. Now you choose to lower the quality requirement. There are no good signals when a state monopoly company lowers its requirements in order to meet its target requirements. It's giving signals that are very unfortunate. It is obvious that there is no improvement in the quality of postal services by lowering the requirements. Nor do consumers receive an improved postal service under such a scheme. The only winner – yes, is it really? - is the state enterprise Posten. There is reason to stress that the purpose or objective of the postal services in Norway is not to maintain the Post as a company but to provide citizens with the best possible postal services. Right-wing think it makes sense to open up competition to all postal services. We are convinced that, in such a competitive situation, the Post will be perfectly effective, even better than today, precisely because competition would result in increased concentration of consumers' wishes and needs. Let me then point out that the central government has this time increased the sum of purchases of postal services. It is possible that this is necessary, but it seems a little strange to increase the sum while reducing the target requirements. The proposal may relate to the desire of the centre parties to secure parts of the structure of the postal network. I think it would be much better to focus on the quality of postal services through target requirements and not on the structure itself. There is no indication that it will provide a better quality at the end of the day. Finally, I would like to address the suggestions in the position on which the Right stands alone, and the ones that we are with others about.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e10789	Oddvard Nilsen has taken up the suggestions he himself referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e10794	The chairperson of the Committee was initially concerned with the need for increased investment investment, especially on the road side. This means that there is a need for plan clarifications in the transport sector, and the clarifications are gradually taking longer and longer. I have said for a joke a few times that nothing is so thoroughly investigated in this country as a road project. It has gradually become a truth. We now have a ten-year plan horizon in the transport sector, and I think that's what we need. In fact, it seems – for some projects at least – that time goes by. This is particularly the case in the case of case-clearances through impact studies and municipal plans, and perhaps especially in cases where the county has objections and there will be treatment at department level. The right, together with the Labour Party and the Advance Party, stands in a note in the budget position where we actually oblige the Government to ensure that the procedure is reduced at department level. At the same time, I think we also need a thorough review of planning systems at different levels. My question is: has the representative Nilsen, the chairman of the committee, considered how we can achieve a more rational planning system? And in addition, is the right-wing attitude that we might be able to use state regulatory plans to a greater extent than we have done so far, in cases where these are projects of particular national importance?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e10803	The representative, Røtvej, addresses a very serious issue related to the controversial legislation and the complex planning process that is currently in place in order to realise projects in Norwegian transport. It's obvious that it's a challenge for all of us, and I don't want to deal with myself here from the Grandfather's pulpit in the course of a line to sketch how to do it. But one thing I think is at least pretty obvious, and it's that there has to be a greater connection between the resources we put into the transport sector, and the plan we have. There has probably been a tendency to have a very high level of ambition in the development of the transport sector. But the willingness to grant the necessary resources has not been present. It is obvious that this may have resulted in inefficient use of the resources available in the current period. This may be something we should focus on when we arrive at the national transport plan. Then we get to put in the resources we have, but at the same time add in the projects that we want to realize, and then add a stream of resources that makes sense in relation to the goals we have set ourselves for the expansion. So the representative of Røtweg touched on another problem, namely the use of a state regulatory plan. It's not that easy for the Right, and maybe not for any of us, to review local decisions here. But I have to say that in the years I've been in the Storting's Committee on Transport, it's occurred to me that in some areas we should have done so. In particular, those areas where this is clearly of national importance and where local inability to take decisions prevents the development of transport projects of significant importance. My answer to Ola Røtweg on the last question is: Yes, where it is obviously of national interest, Right will be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e10814	I noticed that the representative Oddvard Nilsen from the Right criticises the central government's investment in District Norway, especially in the road sector. I have to say, I'm a little surprised when I see how the Right is otherwise prioritizing District Norway. I can refer to the Right's Alternative Budget, where we feel that they are cutting the government's district measures, they are cutting heavily in agricultural support, they are cutting within the SND in such a radical way that that instrument is no longer usable at all. Then you can see, as I have pointed out before, that you can get more money from this money. The central government has chosen to prioritise in a slightly different way, just to benefit District Norway. In addition, I would like to point out that in the budget now presented, there is a gravel road package that benefits District Norway, there is a race protection package that benefits District Norway, and it is a bet and an attempt to turn funds from new investment measures into maintenance, which has also been a strong desire of the sector. In addition, we see that the Right Cuts at the Post Office, which is a hugely important district measure, while criticising the Post Office for not achieving the targets required by the Storting. And while the representative Oddvard Nilsen praises the NSB and the Railway Agency, they cut in the same area. I want to ask questions back to the representative Oddvard Nilsen: Is this good district policy?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e10825	It is true that the Right has cut some district funds to finance the transport sector. But at the same time, I have to say that we're actually in pretty good company. I am here with the budget for the current year. In the case of regional nutrient development in counties and municipalities, the centre/worker party cooperation has cut 20 million. kr, in the case of the regional coordination grant, you have cut 15 million. kr, in the case of national and regional development programmes, you have cut 23 million. kr., in the case of the State Enterprise and Regional Development Fund, you have cut 10 million. kr, and in the case of the State Food and Rural Development Fund and County Councils, you have cut 17 million. kr. The truth is that you have done exactly what the Right has pointed out for many years, namely that it is much better to invest in the transport sector, because at the same time you have increased investment in the transport sector – just as we have said, that it is much better to pursue district policy in this way, to invest in infrastructure that is competitively neutral, where everyone benefits from it, and where the competent person can develop further. You've done just like us, and we agree. So you can discuss the degree of it all. They often get the impression that in the case of district development funds, they just go to District Norway. So I've brought a graph to the representative of Sahl, and the tall column that the representative of Sahl sees there is Oslo. So it is not that most of the district funds in Norway go to the districts. A significant part goes into central strokes as well. Even if you cut, you're not just cutting in the money to District Norway, so the center is trying to make, you're kissing in general, which is also going to hit our cities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e10834	The President will remind you that all speeches must be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e10837	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e10843	I guess we're gonna cut it off now! I want to start with a few words about the Post. I want to defend the government when it has now lowered its targets and put the list on a different level, because what was before was a theoretical model that, among other things, provided that all communications in Norway were 100 pst. on route. All of us in the Committee on Transport know that it doesn't really work that way. The right is very concerned about the level of service. I wonder what kind of service we will get with the Right Cut in those areas. I was going to use most of this line to talk about the railway, because it was so nice to hear the representative Oddvard Nilsen expressing joy that it is now going quite well with the NSB and the Railway Agency, and that he really was so much progress. At the same time, I see from this list that he does not want to say this next year, because he is going to cut both investments and maintenance in the railway works, he is going to cut with regard to the purchase of railway services, etc. So next year, if he had got his budget through, he could have said, "It's not going so well anymore!" I think it's a wonderful way to run politics. But what I'm most responding to is that two and a half years ago, Right, SV and others were involved in creating a majority in Stortinget – and Oddvard Nilsen was also a representative then – in order to remove the road charge for combined transport. The reason we did that was to strengthen the competitiveness of the railways when it came to goods. It was right-handed two and a half years ago. We see in their budget that now the road tax is being increased. Suddenly, the right is no longer concerned with the competitiveness of the railway in the case of goods. I wonder, why this reverse operation? You should actually go the other way and reduce it further. Instead, the representative Oddvard Nilsen intends to get even more goods across the road.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e10854	Only in the case of the Post, on which the representative so far was concerned. In fact, I said in my post that it might be right to increase the purchase of postal services by the state. But I'm basically missing a reason why you're doing it. What makes you want to increase these? When you see how that increase is financed, that is, actually by taking equity from the Postbank, it's a one-off operation that obviously implies that you have to come back with a different funding solution for next year. My point was that if you want to do something about the Post related to this, and if you think that there is too little resources to the Post to provide the basic services that we're all looking for, yes, put it forward, explain why they need to be increased, then we can discuss it, and not finance it in such a way as this, which I think is pretty much on the edge of what you should do, because it really means that you haven't taken it into account in the budget, you've used equity money to finance that part. I will guarantee the representative Myrvoll that if there is a discussion about basic services in the Post Office, and if it turns out in the future that you have to go to increased purchases of services, the Right should set up. In the case of telecommunications services, the Right has also been on the exact same line – where we have defined basic services, we want to be on board. But I'm not sure the best way to do this is through monopolies. So in the case of the railway, I'm really happy that it's going well. But we admit that we give greater priority to the road sector. We think it's more important for Norway, and we think it's more important for District Norway. Railways are not going anywhere in this country. We've deliberately prioritised this, because we think it's in the area we can get the biggest profit in terms of business costs – and it's most important for District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e10865	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e10868	Of course, in a country that is so long-distance, so scattered and located on the edge of the markets, transportation means an infinite amount. The provision of transport is of great importance to the well-being of individuals. But it also means a lot, yes it is crucial for the competitiveness of business. Few countries depend on international trade as much as Norway. And with the long distances to markets, transport costs become an important factor in competitiveness. This fundamental importance of the transport sector means that we should all be concerned when the Government says that the transport network is deteriorating. According to the Department's calculations, there would be a need of about 700 million. kr more than budgeted to prevent further deterioration of road capital. In last year's budget, the Ministry of Fisheries wrote that the coastal marking system is in ‘strong decay’. This is serious. Against this background, it should be noted that the draft national transport plan of the modes of transport means that road investment is reduced by DKK 6 billion in relation to the current road plan and that port investment is significantly reduced in relation to the 2000 budget. I must admit that I read it twice when the Central Party's political spokeswoman, Jorunn Ringstad, spoke to the nation on 15 June: ‘Wei-Norway must have an economic boost. If not, there will be a rebellion against the government.’ She accused the government of a breach of promises, and that's right. The following days, in the same newspaper, we were able to read one witness after another about how the Government was now going to bet on the road. The parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party said to the nation on 17 June: «Now we should get a promise...» It was before the election. Then it became a 1999 election as it was in 1997. The budget came, but they didn't notify the money. But Jorunn Ringstad shall have respect for standing upon her, when, after the presentation of the budget, she said to the nation: "I didn't have the great hopes of the budget and it would turn out to be." I think it's the first time in history that we saw the women of the transport policy of the two largest government parties in a joint play against their own minister – it happened in the VG on 12 October. When budgetary negotiations between the government parties and the Workers' Party became clear, the Workers' Party presented a limited number of demands. However, among the requirements were increased road investment, increased port and fairway investment and increased ferry investment. Better transportation was prioritised. We haven't had an impact on all the requirements, but we've got a certain increase. The budget agreement increased roads, increased ports and lighthouses and increased ferries. The budget was moved in the right direction. With the new budgetary system, it is the whole solution that counts. Both the Right and the Advance Party make a big number of the fact that they are really proposing increased road investment. But do they? There was a budget for 1998. The Right Party and the Progressive Party made budgetary settlements with the Centre. We didn't get another penny. There was a budget for 1999. The budget contained 10 pst. cut in road investment – 10 pst. cut in road investment! The Right Party and the Progressive Party made budgetary settlements with the Centre. We didn't get another penny. It doesn't make much sense to have one billion extra on a budget that's not being adopted, when you don't increase the road budget by one penny when you have the opportunity. The current increase is used to ensure more rational progress on projects under way and to strengthen the county roads. The working party is concerned that the implementation of Norwegian road and road traffic plans varies greatly from strain virus to strain virus and from state to state. It is important that the intentions of the road map are followed. The government must therefore, in its 2001 budget proposal, pay particular attention to the smoother implementation of the road map in relation to the different routes and counties. The need for increased efforts for the development and maintenance of fishing ports, fairways, lighthouses and brands has long been widely agreed. The size also coincided with the strong increase proposed here in the spring 1997 port communication. The working party assumes that the figures drawn there are to be reached. We therefore reacted with amazement when the government provided a budget with real cuts for ports, lighthouses and brands. In this area, too, the budget has been amended by the agreement between the Government Parties and the Workers' Party. And also in this area, it's the first time in this period that budgetary settlements in the Grand Duchy have brought increased investment. There is a need to significantly improve the planning, prioritisation and implementation of projects in the port sector. It can often occur at random which projects reach the end of the year. It is therefore important that a unanimous committee asks the Government to assess a clearer division of responsibilities and priorities in the sector. All projects concerned by State funding must be assessed in the following light in relation to an overall state plan for fishing ports and in relation to a regional priority between the projects in question. The objective must be to have the same cleanliness in the priority in the port sector as in the road sector. The situation in the port sector is to a large extent that we are waiting. We're waiting for priority of the projects, we're waiting for the Government's arrangements for a necessary conversion in the Coastal Works, we're waiting for the Government's arrangements for the port structure in the inner Oslofjord, we're waiting for a review of the organisation of the ports and changes in the port law, and we're waiting for a review of the situation in the lighthouse and the brand service. There may be reason to ask whether the sector has been allocated the resources necessary to meet the expectations of the size of the sector for rapid clarifications. If it is not the responsibility of the Government to assess how to ensure the supply of sufficient capacity to the sector. The four-year budget proposal gave a serious signal. There it is. ‘The poor maintenance will eventually threaten the reliability of the lights, lights and lanterns. Similarly, parts of the coastal marking system are in severe decline.» Of course, this is serious. The Committee therefore asked for a review of the quality of the fireworks service and for this to be submitted to the Stortinget at the latest in the 2000 budget. A review shall have been carried out, but it is not presented to the Size as intended. A large majority of the Committee therefore expects the Stortinget to be presented as soon as possible with such an assessment of the state, recovery and development needs and current costs. This must be done at the latest in the national transport plan presented in March. In this respect, the Government must also make proposals for the necessary measures to ensure the proper quality of service. We also assume that the Government in the 2001 budget and, if possible, also in the revised budget in our promises, the appropriations will be further increased so that we can reach the targets of the port communication. The tragic speedboat crash in the West has dramatically reminded us of the importance of good labelling and safe fairways. The new speedboats have a special need for lighters and brands that they can navigate for at high speed. From the Workers' Party we assume that the Government prioritizes safe speedboat managers when there is room for increased bets in this area. Attention is now focused on the national transport plan to be submitted in March. Today's setting gives several signals about the content of the transport plan. The majority in the Committee shall include, inter alia: strongly critical of the announcement by the Ministry of the submission of an infrastructure plan for aviation in the autumn of 2000. The majority point out that the infrastructure plan for aviation must of course be incorporated as a natural part of the national transport plan. A two-way approach would, of course, be contrary to the very basic principles of transport plan work. The Government has proposed the conclusion of a five-year contract with the fast-track carriers for the purchase of transport services equivalent to today's offer. It has joined the majority according to the circumstances. However, the working party believes that an agreement should have been concluded with a longer time perspective. We want to ensure daily sailing throughout the year on the whole route Bergen – Kirkenes for a period of at least 20 years. I am therefore pleased that the Committee believes that the agreement provides too short a time-frame, and ask the Government to return to the national transport plan with a plan for a longer-term development of the fast route. There has been a broad consensus in Stortinget about a system of ten-year plans where one is most concrete for the first four years, but also provides clear leadership for the last part of the period. What has been incorporated for the last part of the period must normally be expected to follow up on the next plan. This is the case with the Bjørvika tunnel in Oslo. When examining the road and road traffic plan in spring 1997, there was not only a majority behind the project; there was a unanimous committee behind the project; there was a unanimous committee behind the launch of the project during this four-year period. The current government parties and the Right would even grant more to the Bjørvika tunnel than the Jagland government proposed. The more surprising it was that the actions of society in the draft transport plan had not incorporated the project. I am therefore pleased that a clear majority in the Stortinget now obliges the Government to follow up previous planning assumptions. The transport situation in the metropolitan area is the main transport policy challenge we are facing. In the absence of a large-scale expansion of the public service provision, traffic at the city border will increase by a further 40 pst. the next 15 years. It is therefore necessary to implement an overall plan for development built on the Oslo package 2. The working party is strongly critical of the fact that the main principles of this plan have not yet been submitted to the Stortinget. It is not acceptable that the department and municipalities owe each other as in the debate on honey and eggs. The majority of the Committee, all except the members of the Government Parties, is now asking the Ministry to find solutions. It is assumed that this can be done through a joint discussion of government appropriations and local contributions. The transport problem in the metropolitan area is greatest in the west corridor. There are 90 000 – 100 000 cars per. day(s) The development of Fornebu for residential and industrial purposes will increase traffic. Without new solutions, this could be queues, not just parts of the day, but persistently, almost all day. Also here is Oslopak 2 the main response. New double tracks must be built for the Oslo – Asker railway and also for Oslo – Ski. This is also the country's main railway project and is crucial not only for short-distance traffic but also for medium-distance traffic. But that's not enough. Not all traffic can go on track. And it is also not realistic to see such strong means of steering that the road system is relieved by other means. The working party sees a solution to the E18 capacity problems between Oslo and Asker as central to addressing the transport challenges in the capital city area. The Labour Party has therefore launched the proposal for a fully toll-financed development that can be implemented relatively quickly. We have also launched different expansion solutions, either as part of the current tolling, as a separate toll project or as a state road share company following the pattern of NSB Gardermobanen AS. On the part of the Workers' Party, we assume that this recording will be carefully assessed in the work of the National Transport Plan, so that the Stortinget can make a decision on the principle of the treatment of the transport plan. In a number of areas, the budget setting of the Committee on Transport provides information on solutions other than those adopted by the Ministry. However, in one area the criticism is particularly strong. The majority of the Committee strongly criticises the way in which the Ministry has handled the call for tenders for regional aviation. Major changes occurred here without the Storting having had the opportunity to discuss changes of such a significant extent. The county councils did not have the opportunity to discuss it either. 'Unlucky' is a strong parliamentary expression. However, the majority think that this was unfortunate. The Committee is particularly critical of the results we see in Vardø and Værøy. The manner in which the Ministry handled the call led many to ask questions as to whether this was part of a change in the regional airport structure. The Committee underlines two points in the current position that all regional airports taken over by the State are subject to full operation. To the extent that the Ministry makes changes to the structure, this is assumed to be discussed in the national transport plan. Finally, let me relate some comments to the development of the various supervisory bodies. We have gradually seen a development with significant growth in the supervisory bodies. The Post and Telecommunications Authority has more staff than the Ministry. The Air Safety Authority is separated from the Aviation Administration and immediately scheduled to increase the crew by 20 pst. A unanimous committee considers that there is reason to question the increasing scope of the various supervisory bodies in the field of transport. The Committee therefore asks the Ministry to carry out a specific review of the tasks, organisation and operation of the supervisory bodies. Particular attention needs to be paid here to the borderline between the tasks of the Ministry and the supervision respectively. I am concerned that political decisions are being moved from the department to the supervision. I'm worried that the dialogue with the actors is not good enough. I'm afraid the competence isn't updated fast enough. The competence of postal and telecommunications authorities must be paramount in the development of information and telecommunications technologies. It is the Ministry of Transport and the Stortinget – not the Post and Telecommunications Authority – that is to make political and principleal decisions in the field of telecommunications. I sometimes feel the need to underline it, both to the postal and telecommunications authorities and to the other inspections. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e10956	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e10959	As the representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen has pointed out, the State budget and the road budget are marked by the fact that this sector has not been allocated the funds needed for the necessary upgrading of the road network. At the same time, we know that the road sector only gets a third of what is paid back in connection with car and car use. I can't see that the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre Government improves on this imbalance. It is also strange that Schjøtt-Pedersen criticises the budget on which the Workers' Party is involved. We see that more and more roads are being financed by tolls, which in addition go for purposes other than road construction, and it is amazing that the drivers find themselves in this. Does the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen think this is a desirable development for Norway and the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e10968	A year may be a long time in policy, and there may therefore be a need to refresh the representative’s memory. It is therefore the case that the budget currently under government control has been adopted with the support of the Progress Party. So the Progress Party negotiated with the government parties about the content of this budget, and so it didn't get another penny to go, not another penny to railway, not another penny to port, not another penny to aviation, not another penny to post, and not another penny to telecommunications. On the contrary, there was actually a reduction in the area of transport. The Committee was then able to carry out some redeployments internally, but the budgetary agreement between the Progress Party and the Government Parties, where the Right was also involved, did not give priority to transport. Transportation was not mentioned at all, except on the cut side. Then the representative raises questions about how the Workers' Party can partially defend the budget and partially criticise it. With regard to the criticism, I first of all allowed myself to refer to the representative Ringstad, who had expressed it in such a fine way. I can join it. But what is essential is that the budget negotiations have actually shown that one has managed to move the budget a little in the right direction. I'm not saying that 100 million. kr is enormous, but there's a movement in the right direction. And it's the first time in this period that there's more to trade after the budget deal than before the budget deal. We stand by that, even though the Workers' Party had claims and wishes that went beyond that. We are behind the budget that is now assumed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e10975	In my opinion, it is quite obvious that the representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen has both forgotten and ignored the fact that there has been a strong wish on the part of the Workers' Party to cooperate with the government parties, including in the field of transport. So when the Workers' Party is in position and has been given a budget with which they have expressed themselves very satisfied, we see that the representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen in retrospect draws out words from the press as humiliating – and that when we know that the Workers' Party has not had a penny more to travel in these years than the Centre parties have had, that is marginally what the Workers' Party has had to deal with. As the representative Schjött-Pedersen here said in a very striking way: the demands of the Labour Party were very limited. Yes, they were very limited, because the Workers' Party does not have any more money to spend on transportation, and then I think that the use of words is very much beyond goals and actually shoots back at the representative and the party he represents. Let me just briefly quote what the Workers' Party writes on page 17 of the setting: «Weighing investments must go a long way to upgrading and maintaining already existing ones.»And further on:»... it is particularly important to complete and ensure rational progress in road projects already under way.» What is the Workers' Party's answer to that? Well, it's now forcing the billion project Bjørvika, connected to the opera. Is that district bet?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e10993	I was a little surprised by the representative Sahl. Firstly, I have never mentioned the word ‘humbling’. It must be a conclusion that the representative himself has drawn. But the Labour Party is behind the adopted budget. It's the best budget it was possible to obtain. I assume that the representative of the party trap Rigmor Kofoed-Larsen will vote in favour of the budget that is behind the centre and the Labour Party, but that has not prevented the representative Kofoed-Larsen, as the principal figure of the Government's largest party in the affairs of transport, from being out criticising the government's budget proposals. I also assume that Mr Ringstad's representative will vote in favour of the budget, but this has not prevented the representative Mr Ringstad from speaking out a lot clearer than what I have done in this debate, about the government's budget proposals. I note that there is a degree of disquiet in the government parties about what is happening in this sector, and then it might not be surprising that there is a certain amount of attention on the part of other parties in relation to it. However, I believe that both the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left and the Workers' Party are satisfied that at least some increase in these road investments has been achieved through the budgetary agreement – at least it is not moving in the wrong direction, rather it is getting faster progress on some projects. So the name of the representative is Bjørvika. Yes, now I'm going to relieve the representative Sahl of too much responsibility, since he was not a member of the Stortinget in the last big time period. But there may be reason to imagine a certain continuity of policy. And so it was that the Christian People's Party not only supported the expansion of the Bjørvika tunnel, they were in a majority who joined it, but the Christian People's Party went in to grant more money for the start of this process than the Workers' Party agreed to. Having a different vision today will become the problem of the Christian People's Party. The working party is able to hold on to a thought for four years.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e11004	If the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen needs that, I'm going to boast that you've been able to add 60 million. kr. You've taken 10 million. kr from the Swedish Aviation Agency and you have taken 30 million. kr from the Railway Station. Nice! – I would like to see that there were far more resources in the transport sector, because I think that is actually a very great need. So that's what you should have – good! When I heard Mr. Schjøtt-Pedersen's posts, I actually got the billions: Oslopakket 1, Oslopakket 2, Bjørvika and everything. I summed quickly in my head, and there'll be quite a lot of money out of this. The representative Red Road had a line to me about the relationship between plans and resources, which I'll say something about. When we add up all of this, at least it's going to be interesting to see what the result is when we get to the treatment of the national transport plan, where the Workers' Party is going to lay down in terms of the framework, in relation to what Schjøtt-Pedersen now put up. But let me take a little example of just the question that is now raised about Bjørvika. So today, we have a lot of problems with the Drama package. We have significant problems financing E18 in East Agder. We have significant problems with the financing of the E39. In fact, we don't have an open route, all year round, between Norway's two largest cities, Bergen and Oslo – so we have no resources. And then my question becomes Schjött-Pedersen: why are we going to use very much needed means of transport to build Norway's worst cost-benefit project in Bjørvika? Why should we use means of transport for this when we have a lot of projects that are far, far better? I actually thought it was such that in Bjørvika it was going to be urban development that was linked to the tunnel. Could it not be that there are means of transport to finance urban development in Bjørvika?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e11015	Now I will not grant the representative Nilsen the same grounds for exemption that I gave to the representative Sahl, because the representative Nilsen was not only present in the Stortinget last period, he even sat on the Committee on Transport. And in the position of the Committee on Transport, it says what the representative Nilsen meant when considering the road map for the current period. It says that the representative Nilsen, together with a unanimous committee, went in to build the Bjørvika tunnel. It says that the representative of Nilsen, together with a unanimous committee, agreed that it would begin during this process. It says that the representative Nilsen, together with a unanimous committee, agreed to its conclusion in the period 2002-2007. On one point the Committee was not unanimous: the representative of Nilsen, together with his co-representative Widvey and the representatives of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, would grant more for that project. So that's why there's a certain lack of coherence in the reasoning the representative here makes, in relation to the position he's actually taken on that project and put in the road map context. Then we agree that Bjørvika has an essential element of urban development all over itself. It also requires that the funding of this project should have a different composition from that of road projects. It shall have a toll percentage, that is okay, but it shall also have significant local contributions. I have registered that there has been a certain degree of disagreement in Oslo City Council on how much it would be reasonable to contribute. However, I have noticed with interest that City Councillor Fritz Huitfeldt from the Right has now said he was willing to spit something more in the box than what the Right Traditional has been. So here it might make sense if the representative Nilsen stuck to his old positions, and that city councillor Huitfeldt got close to them, and not the other way around. Finally, the representative Nilsen addressed a very central issue when he showed that there is a lack of budgeting in relation to several major projects. This will be an important challenge in relation to the national transport plan. But it's true that billions of people are spending time when national transport plans are being dealt with, that's a comprehensive document, and we're probably going to have a lot of activity around in the next six months.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e11027	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e11030	I will address a number of road issues, and then another representative from the Progress Party will address other sectors of transport. The Transport Budget of the Progress Party emphasises a greater commitment in road construction and maintenance. Unfortunately, today’s road network has become such that traffic disruption often takes place in a very inefficient way. The wear and tear and poor follow-up of maintenance result in a continuous deterioration in road capital. Road traffic accounts for approx. 90 pst. of passenger transport, and it clearly shows that road and road transport require the greatest resources. Today, the department itself says that we are reducing road capital by about 700 million. kr, which should be a great cross of thought as to what kind of lag we bring with us into the future. Several calculations have also been made to show that Norwegian industry loses large amounts annually due to the depriority of profitable road projects. For a number of years, transport projects with a miserable cost-benefit have been prioritised and built regardless of cost and cost. One of the biggest examples – among many – is the North Cape plateau. In road development there is a need for significant uplifts over the next 10 years to meet market accessibility requirements. A strong expansion of the main road network will not only lead to higher cost-effectiveness but also to more efficient traffic management, less pollution, less noise, increased road safety and several better housing environments. The Progress Party budget proposal therefore amounts to SEK 1.7 billion more than the Government’s proposals for road development, maintenance and traffic safety. Of these extra funds, the Advance Party wishes to increase the appropriations for the county roads by 150 million. kr in addition to the Government's proposal. The agreement between the Working Party and the Centre has increased this by 25 million. kr. Something is this, but it is far from the big bet on Building Norway that we still hear about over and over again. It is not intended to have good highways if you do not follow the county roads as well. Unfortunately, there are so many places today that you have to drive back and forth several times with loads to the main road because the county roads are too bad and do not withstand the load that corresponds to a full load on a trailer. Furthermore, the Advance Party will increase the operating and maintenance appropriations by 200 million. kr in addition to the Government's proposal. Unfortunately, the maintenance slows down more and more, and the standard is now many places becoming dangerously low. But the biggest effort will be made by the Advance Party on our highways, and especially on the tribal viruses. With regard to the distribution to the states of national roads, the Progress Party proposes an increase of 540 million. kr. We believe that there are many good projects with a good cost-benefit that stand and wait year after year in many of our counties. However, the very largest powerhouse in the road sector will be applied to our stem viruses. These roads are the most important of our roads, and they stand alone for 50 pst. of all road transport services in Norway. Here the Group of the Progressive Alliance has clearly stated that the E6 route from Oslo to Svinesund should be of the highest priority. Four-field motorways should be built throughout the route. The wonderful 2+1 field that is now being built in Eastfold should be immediately stopped and transformed into a real four-field road. Sweden, which has no oil wealth to use, has already understood that good, affordable roads are something that needs to be built if business continues to be competitive in the same way as its competitors. That's why the Swedes have already built the four-field highway almost from the Norwegian border and all the way to Denmark – there's a little bit left from Uddevalla to the border, and they're in the process of completing – while we haven't even planned or decided here at home for a road that should already have been there today. Further in its priority, the Progress Party aims to develop the E18 Oslo-Kristiansand as a continuous four-field motorway from Drammen to Grenland. But the section Porsgrund-Kristiansand is also important, because the traffic here is about 10,000 ÅDT. Furthermore, we will strongly prioritise E6 Oslo-Trondheim, E18 Oslo-Ørje, E134 Drammen-Haugesund, E16 Sandvika-Bergen and E39 Kristiansand-Bergen. These are all of our most important strain viruses. The Progress Party will also give high priority to good bypasses around the major cities, so that one can establish transport corridors with reasonably uniform standards to and from abroad. I'll also come up with a little bit of the joy that we've now got a full review of Oslopackak 1. We in the Progress Party have made it clear that we do not want an Oslopackak 2 if Oslopackak 1 is not fully implemented. So we are very pleased that the Workers' Party here met us and agreed to ensure that Oslopacket 1 will be reviewed as early as spring. So that Bjørvika is in a majority of the Labour Party and the Advance Party as last year is a clear clue to the Government and the Council that something should be done here. Finally, I will be able to present the proposals in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09.ana.ud2450e11060	Thore Aksel Nistad has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The time for the morning meeting is soon to come, and the President proposes that the meeting now be cancelled, and that a new meeting be set at 0 p.m. 18 and starts with a replacement of lines in connection with the posts of the representative Nistad. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
