ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e77	The called alternate of the Vestfold County, Anders Anundsen, has taken the seat. The requested alternate of the State of Telemark, Gunn Marit Helgesen, is requested to be exempted from the meeting of the representative of Ingvald Godals' leave from 10 May to 12 May, for reasons of well-being. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Other alternate, Kari Lise Holmberg, is proposed to meet during the leave period. – It is understood to have been adopted. From 10 May to 9 June, applications for maternity leave are submitted by the representative Olav Akselsen. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. 2nd@item: inlistbox The Vara representative, Gard Folkvord, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e112	The representative Johan J. Jakobsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e115	I would like to promote a document No. Eight proposals for the Storting to give the Government the consent of the Government to receive up to 6,000 refugees from Kosovo. At the same time, I allow myself to ask that this proposal be discussed at today's meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e122	The President will propose that referenced Document No. The 8th proposal, based on Rule 28(d) of the Rules of Procedure, will be discussed at the beginning of the evening meeting today. No objections have been raised – and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e134	At the threshold of a new millennium, we find nourishment to optimism and pessimism. Power and renunciation, hope and hopelessness, respect and degradation replace each other with increasing speed and strength. This is reflected in the situation in so many countries. In my January statement on humanitarian aid this year, I described a difficult political landscape characterised by a new picture of conflict and disaster. The humanitarian disaster that is currently taking place in and around Kosovo has come as another tragic feature of this picture. It is demanding in such a situation to take a word like ‘development’ in its mouth — a word almost by definition optimistically charged. Nevertheless, it is right now when it looks as darkest to the Kosovar Albanians and other people in the Balkans, that it is most important to express our solidarity through resources and practical action and plan for a future in peace. At the same time, we should remember that there are needy people in other parts of the world who need help just as badly and who are entitled to our support. At these times last year we saw developments in Africa as much more positive – ‘African renaissance’ was a concept that was used. So, by the year was over, there were ten serious conflicts on the continent. The contradictions we thought were about to be settled, flared up again, and new conflicts broke out. Nevertheless, the will for peace and democracy is alive. A few months ago – in the most populous country in Africa, Nigeria – this was the will that won. In South Africa the people go to elections later this month for the second time. More than half of the countries south of the Sahara are now governed by leaders elected by the people in democratic elections. It gives cause for optimism. It also suggests that the economic growth in Africa will exceed population growth in both 1998 and 1999. We find a new dynamic in many African countries where civil society and the private sector play an increasing and positive role in social development. We're going to back that up. The situation in Asia is compounded. The trends tell us that the environmental challenges will rise to the international agenda in the future. At the same time, the financial crisis has thrown millions of people into unemployment, poverty and distress. Indonesia was hit particularly hard. The crisis triggered social unrest in several countries that, paradoxically, put democracy and human rights in the centre. The situation in the countries of East Asia is now relatively stable. The possibilities for rehabilitation and new growth seem to be relatively good. It is gratifying that China also seems to have been relatively successful through the crisis. However, in several countries in Central Asia and the OSCE region, poverty problems are serious. We must contribute to international efforts towards these countries. The challenges in the Middle East require continued involvement. We continue our efforts to continue the peace process, to improve living conditions and to promote democratic development in the Palestinian region. In Central America, our presence has given results. This is an example of developments in Guatemala. Our efforts in Nicaragua have also received a good evaluation. Results have been achieved for peace, human rights, democracy and education of the poor that even Hurricane Mitch could not destroy. Developments are fundamentally about expanding human choices; opportunities for fundamental goods — yes, actual rights — such as education, health and clean drinking water. This is the UN definition of the term ‘development’. Poverty means being denied these choices, which is still about half the world's population. Assistance can do a lot to fix this. Therefore, the level of assistance is important, reflected in the Government's ambitions of stepping up. But assistance is not sufficient in itself. In my last year's policy statement, I spoke about the importance of international framework conditions in the fields of debt and trade. These are framework conditions that directly and indirectly affect the choices of individuals and governments. That's why they're so important, and so last year we put forward a debt plan, which is now being implemented. Last year I also talked a lot about the partners we need to work with to get results in development policy. In this presentation, I will focus primarily on the first and most important partner, the authorities of each developing country. And there are in particular two issues I want to address, two issues that directly affect people's ability to choose development, to opt out of poverty, namely corruption and democracy. Democracy means that people choose their leaders, and that leaders must be responsible regularly for their leadership. Democracy, therefore, basically gives the people the opportunity to choose a better and fairer economic policy, including a policy that means less corruption. Corruption undermines development and always makes the rich richer and the poorer. In this statement, I will therefore present a new and more ambitious policy in these areas. However, it does not hold with fine words and perpetuates a lack of ability to deliver. I will therefore first briefly sum up the main results of the Government's development policy work in the last year. Norway was the first country to launch a national debt plan for the poorest developing countries. Here we helped to create a trend. Federal Chancellor Gerhard Schröder announced that Germany would run a new debt initiative at the G-8 meeting in Cologne in the summer. Then the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, France and Japan launched their own debt cancellation proposals. One year ago, such a development would have been almost unimaginable. A new momentum is being created. We have to take advantage of that. The implementation of the ‘Guidance plan against the year 2000’ has been well under way. As part of the implementation of the single debt cancellation scheme under the debt plan, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has recently held a delegation in Benin. Senegal is on its way. If all the conditions for unilateral cancellation are met, the debt plan provides for a liability of approximately 450 million. kr. These are liabilities that are noted internationally. We aim to sign an agreement with Benin in June. And that's just the beginning. The World Bank and IMF debt initiative for the poorest and most indebted countries, HIPC, is an important element of the Norwegian debt plan. However, the implementation of the initiative is too slow. The mechanism needs to be made more flexible and more efficient. In this way, several countries can more quickly solve their debt problems. During the year, the IMF and the World Bank will carry out a full review of the initiative. Norway is a driver and partner in this work. The international framework for trade policy is complicated. Many poor countries lack expertise and capacity to fully exploit the acquis. Therefore, they often draw the shortest straw in trade disputes. The government has taken the initiative to do something about this. We are drivers to establish an independent legal advisory centre that can help developing countries handle trade disputes. We also support a dedicated fund providing assistance to better enable the poorest countries to reap the benefits of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) legislation. The government will seize every opportunity to link alliances in order to improve the trading framework conditions for developing countries. Earlier this winter, I had discussions with the European Commission. The EU has concrete plans to improve trade conditions for the poorest countries. These will be promoted in the context of WTO negotiations, which start at the turn of the year. On the Norwegian side, we will follow this up. Want to import into Norway is also part of this picture. In my presentation last year, I underlined the importance of giving society – the second partner in development policy – better coordination. Still, self-interest is too dominant. The government has put great effort into coordinating international assistance. A number of initiatives and conversions are underway. It gives us hope that we can meet the next millennium more coordinated and assembled than ever. We build alliances. The United Kingdom and Germany have become new allies for us. Together with the Nordic countries and the Netherlands, these countries are now key partners in development policy and in coordination. The World Bank has presented an interesting framework for an overall framework for development cooperation in each country, the so-called Comprehensive Development Framework. This initiative brings together all foreign and domestic actors on a common long-term development strategy in the country in question. The framework presupposes that the country's authorities are in the driver's seat and that the private sector as well as civil society are included in the work. I am in close contact with the President of the World Bank on the further development of the initiative. It is obvious that this will happen in close cooperation with the United Nations. Norwegian aid is mainly targeted at countries that actively pursue policies to reduce poverty. Norwegian assistance also contributes effectively to poverty reduction. This was documented last year by the World Bank in an analysis of Norwegian aid. The analysis came after the report Assessing Aid, which strongly criticized much of the international aid for having little effect on the fight against poverty. But we're betting right. At the same time, we need to be willing to develop further. The government has promised to give priority to education and health. We have. Plans are being developed and agreements are being reached with our cooperating countries, which will ensure that these areas of activity will be central to long-term development cooperation in the years to come. In 1998, training aid increased to more than 11 pst. and health is about 10 pst. of the bilateral assistance. Now we're going up to 15 pst. for education, and primary education is the most important. At the same time, the whole spectrum of education needs to be maintained. That is why I have recently presented a strategy for research and higher education in relation to developing countries. In this way, knowledge and capacity are built to combat poverty. A living business creates values and is the best guarantor of jobs, incomes to people and tax access to the country. Thus, a viable business life, the third partner in development cooperation, is a prerequisite for reducing poverty and the best means of combating aid dependence and increasing debt burden. The government’s strategy for industrial development in the south, which was also developed in close cooperation with the Norwegian business community, is therefore an important boost in our development policy. We will promote value creation and profitable, efficient production in the south through a broad and holistic approach, in line with Annex 3 to the 1999 State Budget and the treatment of the Stortinge. In particular, I would like to raise two points: Firstly, better framework conditions for business and investment. Uncertain legal conditions, corruption and weak governments often contribute to capital flowing elsewhere than to the poorest developing countries. An important element of the strategy is to improve these conditions, both internationally and in cooperation with individual countries. We also want to improve the conditions for Norwegian investment. In cooperation with industry, we want to expand incentives in this area, including: by strengthening the capital base of NORFUND. Secondly, strengthening the private sector through industrial development programmes. We want to stimulate increased economic cooperation. Through various consultation mechanisms, industry and its organisations are now involved in the planning and design of business development programmes. Work is based on the needs of the south. In this way, we ensure coherence between our own plans, our own aid efforts and business interests in profitable investments. We look forward to this cooperation with Norwegian business. In the authoritative report of the International Monetary Fund, IMF, on the Norwegian economy from February this year, we are commended for our high level of assistance. I am therefore pleased that we can report back that Norwegian development aid reached a historic peak in 1998 with NOK 10 billion. Better control contributed to a significant reduction in under-use. At the same time, the quality of assistance is strengthened. This year, NORAD is introducing a new financial management system. It will next facilitate the management, reporting and quality control of aid operations. This, together with a targeted and strengthened evaluation activity, now gives the Storting a better basis than ever before to assess how priority areas of development policy are being followed up and what results are being achieved. Corruption is one of the reasons why aid does not always achieve the results we hope for. The fight against corruption must therefore be a central element of quality assurance. Here is the first partner, the authorities, most importantly, but civil society also has a crucial role to play. In too many developing countries, the poorest are rejected and do not receive the assistance they claim from the police and the judiciary. They shall not have access to services such as clean drinking water or to the decisions of the authorities relating to them. Some are even denied access to healthcare or are not admitted to school. Why? They cannot afford to bribe public officials. Corruption is merciless. It primarily affects the weakest. Corruption is stealing from the poorest. In this way, confidence between large sections of the population and the national authorities is weakened. The rule of law is undermined. Democracy is being undermined. Corruption is also a threat to economic development. It leads to the waste of public resources and the loss of tax revenue. It contributes to greater economic inequality, prevents investment, leads to capital flow and increased unemployment. Once again, the poor are losing. Corruption can contribute to environmental damage. Drug trafficking and arms smuggling are flourishing. Therefore, corruption is not just politically, socially and economically irresponsible; it is morally reprehensible. Poor people get poorer. Trust is shattered, and human sense of responsibility and morality is weakened. Corruption corrupts. The community is caught in a vicious circle. In some countries, for example: Nigeria and Indonesia, corruption is so widespread that it forms, yes corrupts, the whole society. There's been a system problem. In many of our cooperating countries, corruption is also a significant problem, making poverty reduction much more difficult than it would otherwise be. It's unacceptable. Corruption must therefore be combated. Of course, this also applies in our own part of the world, which we have seen examples of lately. If we're going to take something at the root, we're going to have to know its essence. It requires that we have knowledge of the causes, understanding of the functioning of the administrative apparatus in developing countries, understanding of economic and social conditions, understanding of political developments and understanding of the country's traditions and culture. We still have a lot to learn about these relationships, but we also know a lot. We know, for example. that there is a distinction between two main types of corruption: for the sake of simplicity, I call them “grievance corruption” and “emergency corruption”. As a rule, politicians and tops of public administration and business are behind corruption motivated by greed. Large amounts are often involved in decisions about major expansion projects and are also often seen in the customs tariff. In many countries, there may also be a great deal of gross corruption in dealing with new legislative proposals. This type of corruption is the most serious because it constitutes an example of succession that quickly characterizes, yes demoralizes, society as a whole. It is also this corruption that contributes most to increasing the differences between the poor and the rich. However, the corruption of the need, or the small corruption, is the most directly affecting poor people. Ordinary employees charge bribes to perform the services they are required to provide free of charge, receive money to ignore illegalities, place the income of the establishment in their own pocket or sell goods for their own service. However, it is much easier to understand this corruption, although it cannot be defended. There is too low a wage level, and irregular payments, for public employees who lead primarily to such corruption in many of our cooperating countries, and who almost make such corruption necessary for many. It's about to feed his family, about having a roof over his head. It is difficult to condemn this type of corruption as long as top managers set a bad example of their form of corruption and as long as governments do not reform the public sector to increase wages. However, it is of great importance to also address emergency corruption, because it also undermines economic development and social cohesion. Once again, it is the poorest that are hit hardest. Our main partner in the fight against corruption is the developing countries themselves. Only when the authorities in the countries take responsibility for combating the problem can we succeed. A number of our cooperating countries now show the will and courage to attack the world. In Uganda, to take one example, there is an open social debate about corruption and how it can be combated. Parliament and the media are taking the lead in the debate, where no one is exempt from criticism. A separate Minister of Ethics and Integrity was recently appointed to lead the government's political work against corruption. Corruption was also a central issue when I recently visited Uganda. On the same day that I had conversations with President Museveni, several ministers were removed, among others. due to maladministration. This is a promising start. I would like to make it clear that we have no indication that Norwegian funds have been misused or that Norwegian funded projects have been subject to corruption. The control is very good. What instruments can most effectively combat corruption depends on what kind of financial crime we're dealing with. Degradation requires, in part, completely different instruments than emergency corruption. Nevertheless, in order to succeed in the fight against corruption, the two different types must be tackled in a coordinated way. Today, I want to launch a new offensive in the fight against corruption. The following six actions are central to the offensive: Firstly, NORAD is to become an international front organisation in the fight against corruption.First, the knowledge and awareness of aid management must be strengthened. Concrete plans shall be drawn up for the anti-corruption work. Exchanges of expertise in the Norwegian research environment shall be drawn, but also on the knowledge and experience of international organisations. Norwegian businesses and non-governmental organisations will be involved in the work. Secondly, corruption will be on the agenda of the dialogue with our countries of cooperation. Greater transparency about corruption is important. In several of our cooperating countries, there is already an open debate on the problem of corruption. Then there's no reason why we're going to tab it. Transparency itself will act as a preventative. Thirdly, our countries of cooperation will receive assistance in the fight against corruption. In particular, we will support administrative reforms that directly attack the corruption of greed and the conditions that make the corruption necessary. In several countries, the number of public employees decreased and the wages and salaries increased sharply. Measures that can contribute to greater transparency and backwardness of management, better accounting systems and the organisation of control procedures and enforcement mechanisms will also be supported. Furthermore, the possibilities of administrative control of national and parliamentary audits must be strengthened. We will contribute to that. We have a good cooperation with our own national audit on this support. In the general conversion of aid to programme and budget support, we want to make sure that the effort is not made through economic mismanagement. An action will be to make our partners reflect the contributions they receive in their State budgets. This also applies to the liability. The fight against corruption must be integrated into all bilateral development cooperation, whether we support road and dam construction, health, education, environmental protection or the strengthening of public institutions. Fourthly, international efforts to combat corruption need to be better coordinated, made more systematic and more effective.We are now entering into an alliance with the World Bank. In the ongoing efforts to strengthen coordination between donors, corruption shall be central to the agenda. This fight can't win either of us for each of us. It must take place in broad cooperation. The recently adopted OECD Convention on thecriminalisation of bribery by foreign public officials becomes an important instrument in combating corruption on the supply side, inter alia. in the industrialized countries. We are working for increased monitoring of this Convention. This also applies to the work on transparency of public procurement in the WTO. Fifthly, voluntary organisations must be involved in the fight against corruption. Corruption may also occur in so-called ‘idealistic’ contexts, where one may not expect it, such as the use of drugs. in projects in cooperation with local churches. I encourage our partners in the voluntary organisations, including the mission organisations, to fight uncompromisingly against both the corruption they encounter in general in society and in their partners. Transparency International is today the only voluntary organisation that has corruption as its primary objective. We agree to cooperate with them. Sixth, sanctions will be used, if necessary.Where the authorities do not show the will and ability to do anything about corruption, we will assess the alignment of aid cooperation. In particularly serious cases, we will apply sanctions. The persistent corruption problem in Kenya led the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to hold back a loan to the country in the autumn of 1997. dollar. In the 2000 budget, I will explain in more detail the Government's overall approach to combating corruption. Research carried out by the World Bank suggests that there is less corruption in countries with well-developed democracy than in countries with no well-functioning democratic institutions. Democracy development is therefore a central means of combating corruption, as well as being an objective in itself. In Norwegian aid, we have focused on democracy as an important dimension of social development throughout the 1990s. We have supported elections at national assemblies, presidents and local authorities in several developing countries. We have helped build support functions for national Parliaments. We have also provided more indirect democracy support in the form of support for newspapers and other mass media, women's organisations and trade unions. Much of this support has produced positive results. In many countries, developments are clearly moving in a democratic direction. I think, however, that the time is ripe to bet more focused, more strategic, more ambitious. We cannot build democracy, but we can make it possible for poor countries themselves to build it. In my effort to develop democracy, I will focus in particular on two challenges: The first is popular mobilization in countries where participation in democratic processes is in the process of being confused. The institutional framework may be in place, but it does not function in a reliable way. Zambia is an example of this. The second concerns the construction and consolidation of what we can call ‘new, fragile democracies’, for example. Cambodia and Nigeria. Here the challenge is, to a large extent, to get an institutional framework for democracy in place. A living, functioning democracy is about giving people faith that it benefits. One of the greatest scourges of democracy is called apathy, the notion that it doesn't work. The strengthening of democracy is therefore among other things. a question of building people's confidence in democratic institutions and mobilising participation. Without this, democracy will not be able to function. The low turnout in many of our cooperating countries is worrying. During the last local elections in Zambia, participation was only about 10 p.m.Oh, my God! In Zimbabwe and Namibia, we've seen correspondingly low numbers. When participation in democracy is confused, it is an expression of renunciation, of a crisis of confidence. In new democracies it is usually very enthusiastic and uplifted at the first free elections. When the new, elected rulers are unable to make progress for most people, or if corruption is spreading, democracy in the eyes of many loses its credibility. Experience shows that if the results do not work, the enthusiasm and the conclusion of future choices will fall. Through this assistance, we can contribute to mobilization and to the roots of democracy: Firstly, by supporting economic and social development, so that people feel that democracy gives them a better life. This is what is at the heart of the aid activity. Here, too, education is very central – understanding democratic processes and having the opportunity to participate. Our commitment to education is therefore democratic.The second is by supporting the creation of functioning public institutions. In other words, ensure a good set of governance. Democracy depends on people having confidence in politicians and the public in general. That is why the fight against corruption is also so important to democracy. A good set of governance involves a well-functioning public apparatus based on the principle of equal treatment of its citizens, transparency and accountability. Freedom of the media and freedom of expression are fundamental to ensuring that the system operates in such a way. Through the assistance, we can offer cooperation on the demanding task of building up and maintaining a public apparatus that operates in line with democratic principles and is based on anchoring and trust in our own country. This is largely about strengthening different parts of the administration, which we are already engaged in in many countries. But there are also areas where we have done relatively little so far, such as justice, national assembly, police and prison services. Here I want us to become more active. The same applies to strengthening local government, which is the part of a democratic system that affects people most directly. Thirdly, we can contribute to the strengthening of civil society, so that people are given the opportunity to influence themselves the development of daily life. The voters must have faith that their voice counts. The volunteer organisations have a task here. Dispute is one of the pillars of democracy. Democracy must be a continuous process in which a diversity of social forces are violated. Therefore, organisation is so important. Many non-governmental organisations and other actors within our own civil society can demonstrate a wide range of experience and expertise in development cooperation. Stakeholders who can make visible that their work works positively in democratisation processes, strengthen human rights and contribute to popular participation in development processes are interesting partners in strengthening civil society. By supporting measures that enable local communities to care for their own interests, organisations help to strengthen people's benefits from democratic processes. This is not least important for particularly vulnerable groups, such as: indigenous peoples. Support for such organisation may be the most important support we can provide for the indigenous. Fourth, we can help to strengthen political structures, parties and free media, so that there are up-to-date and competent control mechanisms in relation to the established authority. To date, support for political parties and work in our co-operation countries has paid little attention to development cooperation. The high level of political sensitivity is linked to such support. Nevertheless, it is a paradox that, while we are actively supporting civil society and the forces that are working for a more democratic system of governance, we are supporting little of the forces that are in many ways the very nervous system of many well-functioning democracies: the political parties. But we want to avoid ad hoc solutions in this important but sensitive area. The first priority is therefore to find out how, from the Norwegian side, we best move forward with support through the political parties to strengthen democracy. We need a framework and arrangements for such support that ensures relevance and quality and that can be compatible with the regular state of state cooperation. Experience from Sweden and Germany suggests that schemes can be established that work. The examination of these questions shall be initiated immediately. As part of the work, consultations with the political parties will be central. The results will be presented in the Action Plan on Human Rights for the autumn and in the context of the State budget for 2000. We who live in an established and stable democracy have a special responsibility towards those countries that, after many years of authoritarian rule, violence and oppression, take courageous steps in a democratic direction. Norway has played an important role in South Africa. Most people know that story. We have also contributed in important ways in Guatemala, and today we are contributing in the Palestinian territories. We want to continue and strengthen this vital effort. Today, not least, Nigeria and Cambodia are pointing out. It is uncertain whether democracy will win in these countries, and whether we will be able to reach a levelling-out for our efforts. But it is our duty to be involved and contribute, so that democracy is given a chance in these countries as well. Support for electoral processes is central: ensuring that choices are calm and secure and in line with established standards. At the same time, a unilateral commitment to elections and an excessive pressure from donor countries to hold elections may continue to be negative. We have seen this, among other things. in Sierra Leone. Democratic efforts must go hand in hand with the work of reconciliation and the establishment of central judicial functions. The Norwegian resource bank for democracy and human rights, NORDEM, which has contributed most of the time to election observation until now, should be able to use more systematically and specifically in the work of democracy. NORDEM can not at least be an important instrument in relation to the new, fragile democracies. Of course, our commitment must be coordinated with democratic-building initiatives from other donors, but above all, it must be based on the needs of our allies in the developing countries themselves. There is a need for a new impetus in the effort to develop democracy. The human rights action plan will make an important contribution to this. New guidelines for work in the field of democracy will also be developed. Strengthening the rule of law, emphasising assistance to ensure freedom of expression, differentiated media, and education and research will be central. Analysis of the conditions of democracy will be part of the strategic work towards our countries of cooperation. At the same time, in the work of democracy, we must be both principled and humble. We must insist that democracy is about diversity and choice, about equality and respect for the individual. At the same time, we must take account of the fact that democracy can be organised in different ways. Without taking into account local conditions and culture, democracy will be difficult to root out. We must also remember that democracy is not something that can be introduced from the outside. It has to grow through a process that retrieves its industry from within. We have to accept that this takes time. Perhaps we should look back more often on our own history to put into perspective what many developing countries are now experiencing. So the point is not to export ‘our solutions’, but to share experiences and knowledge. That's also to a large extent this is about, when we're about the Peace Corps. We want to invite good forces to a new and stronger interaction in development cooperation. Our goal is to create the Peace Corps as a new, central instrument for strengthening civil society and cooperation between Norway and the countries of the south. Over 35 years, the Peace Corps has laid the groundwork for enthusiasm, proximity, solidarity and the building of human resources in development cooperation. I have continued these values and laid the foundation for the conversion that is now on the stairs. But there is a need for fundamental renewal. That's why we're putting the Peace Corps around. A modern peace corps must reflect and exploit the breadth and diversity we see in cooperation with developing countries. That's why I invite local and national non-governmental organisations, the many players in the business community, church organisations and mission associations, and public institutions and municipalities to participate. The government’s challenge is to take young people’s global commitment seriously and to involve them in development cooperation, to provide them with opportunities to learn more and to contribute actively, and to provide them with the opportunity to disseminate experience and knowledge to the Norwegian community after an end of engagement. At the same time, we will give young people from partner organisations in developing countries the chance to do the same here in Norway. Cooperation will aim at strengthening the forces in the south that fight against poverty and the promotion of human rights and the development of democracy. The Government submits this matter to the Storting through the proposal for a revised national budget. Development policy is a broad, global field of action. In this presentation, I have focused on two of the most central partners in development cooperation, the authorities of developing countries and civil society. I have notified a new giver in our cooperation with both parties. I have pointed out the need for increased legitimacy and greater confidence in the relationship between authorities and the population of developing countries. I have therefore concentrated on sketching a new strategy in the fight against corruption and a new give-up for democracy development. These are key instruments and prerequisites for increased impact and broad convergence in Norwegian south policy. It's this way we'll meet the next millennium.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e309	The President will make suggestions that the Minister for Development and Human Rights' statement on development policy will be presented for consideration at a later meeting – and see it as agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e321	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will disclaim the possibility of changing a string of up to 3 lines with replies from the main speakers for each group and from members of the Government. Finally, the President will make suggestions that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e332	The events referred to as the banking crisis in Norway are now a few years behind. Several reports and investigations have raised issues related to the crisis. In order to obtain an overall review of the whole complex of cases, the Stortinget decided on 30 May 1997 to appoint an independent investigation commission to review, analyse and assess various circumstances and causes leading to the banking crisis in Norway on the basis of previous documents and investigations and through additional investigations. The committee chaired by Eivind Smith presented its report to the Stortinget on 29 June 1998. An overall committee says in the setting that the Commission's report provides a transparent and good presentation. The Commission’s review is also well in line with the mandate of the investigation work adopted by the Stortinget. The Commission considers it generally accepted that the introduction of credit in the mid-1980s was too strong and that this introduction of credit is among the key factors behind the rise and that led to the banking crisis. The Commission's assessment is that in the mid-1980s monetary and credit policy should have been tighter. The system of declarations of interest meant that the government had almost complete control of the lending rate in practice, but that the possibility of influencing the demand for loans in this system was not used in the strong growth period in the mid-1980s. The system of interest rate declarations was intended to function flexibly so as to take account of the demand and supply conditions on the credit market. This was not followed up. The majority of the Committee notes that neither the level of interest rates nor the tax system used by the State to mitigate the demand for loans. In this context, it is important to point out that the Commission points out that there was clear resistance — both in the government and in the opposition — to using lending rates to reduce demand for loans and to dampen credit growth. The majority of the committees find it difficult to criticise the authorities’ use of instruments after the rise of the strong real interest rate increase from 1987 to 1991. I would like to refer here to the Commission's reference to the fact that, with the exception of the tax system, it is difficult to envisage a credible alternative policy from 1987 on preventing such an increase in interest rates. The committee has noticed that the Commission later concluded that the authorities were somewhat late in switching from a contractual to an expansive policy when the decline came. Moreover, the Commission does not find any basis for claiming that economic policy after 1986 contributed to the deterioration and consequently to the major banking losses that came later. The credit expansion that developed beyond the 1980s resulted in a change in the behaviour of banks that was characterised by increased competition in the fight for market shares, combined with strong growth. Many banks were more concerned with size and growth than with results and soundness, and banks’ growth strategy and aggressive competition for market shares will have to be maintained as a determining factor for the banking crisis that followed in the wake of growth’s cold water. It is the banks themselves that need to develop procedures to ensure themselves against losses. It was therefore unfortunate that the control side of the banking business was not adequately prioritised at the time. Although a significant proportion of the losses incurred by banks must be said to come within sectors that would be vulnerable to domestic cyclical recessions, banks cannot be relieved of the responsibility for those losses. The credit supervision obligation to monitor the impact of the strong growth in the credit volume of the 1980s on individual financial institutions and whether expansion took place within a sound framework. With regard to the difficulties surrounding the establishment phase of the credit supervision, it is undeniable that the Ministry of Finance, as the overall authority of the credit supervision, had a separate responsibility to follow in the manner in which the supervision carried out its tasks and, where appropriate, to take the necessary steps to remedy the situation. It is difficult to identify to what extent the problems of the credit supervision were relevant to those parts of the developments in the 1980s that would prove to be an important part of the background to the banking crisis. But the majority of the committee notes that the department was fully informed that the credit growth was strong in the mid 1980s. The liberalisation of the credit market should have provided for a build-up of banking supervision. It was therefore unfortunate that the local oversight activities almost disappeared in that period. There is good reason to believe that more active local supervision could have revealed that the very strong expansion in many banks, among other things. led to impaired credit practices. The monitoring of banks’ ability to face future losses is therefore a very central task of the credit supervision. The Ministry of Finance decided on applications for the admission of subordinated loan capital with the advice of the Banking Authority, and the applications were substantially granted. This increase in the use of subordinated loan capital led to a similar deterioration in the quality of the capital base of the banks. The Commission considers that the credit supervision should have discouraged excessive use of subordinated loan capital, in particular from the mid 1980s. Such a restriction on the admission of subordinated loans could have helped to force banks to reduce their lending growth during that period. It is beyond doubt that not only the credit supervision, but also the Norwegian Bank, the Ministry of Finance and not least the banks themselves seriously underestimated the depth of the bank's problems.The credit supervision can therefore be difficult to criticise for not having foreseen a crisis, which neither the system authorities, i.e. the Ministry of Finance – and thus the government – nor the Bank of Norway, predicted. Although the crisis could not have been prevented, there is reason to believe that greater loss provisions at the end of the 1980s could have had an impact on the outcome of the crisis in some banks. There were organisational problems in the supervision. The Committee does not go into this detail, but would point out that the primary responsibility for ambiguity and other problems must lie with the ministry, as the overall body of the credit supervision. I would also like to point out here that the Commission points out that it appears as clear that both the Ministry of Finance and the Banking Authority have had an unfortunate time with the organisation of supervision, and that it is reasonable to assume that this in turn has led to a weakening of supervisory work. There is no doubt that the Ministry of Finance has the overall governance of the Credit Authority. This means that criticism of the failure of the supervisory functions must ultimately be directed to the Ministry of Finance. With regard to the relationship with the Storting, it is the government that has the primary responsibility in the field of economic policy to provide the Storting with the information it needs in order to take a stand on the government's proposals or even a lack of them. The Commission stresses that there is no doubt that the government must also bear a primary responsibility in this respect. But as the development actually progressed, it is equally clear that responsibility must be shared with the Stortinget. In my opinion, this must be taken into account by Stortinget. I would like to stress, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, that no one can reasonably be criticised for not already in the mid-1980s having foreseen the serious banking crisis to peak in 1991-93. But it would have been natural to face liberalisation and strong lending growth with enhanced banking supervision. The Commission points out that it has been claimed that the rules on loss provisions in Norway were much stricter than in other countries and that the banking crisis was well under way a paper crisis caused by much stricter loss regulations than was appropriate and necessary. Nevertheless, it is clear that the Norwegian loss provision rules were not among the most stringent in the world. The Commission’s review of bank losses confirms the impression that a not insignificant part of the loss provisions from the banking crisis have subsequently been reduced and that the return rate for both commercial banks and savings banks on average is between 30 and 35 pst. DnB also points out with the greatest backflows. However, the majority would stress that when assessing the reversals on the basis of the situation during the crisis, they cannot prove in themselves that the provisions were too large. This is mainly due to the strong rise that has characterised the Norwegian economy in the years following the crisis. There has been no change in the discretion of banks in the form of a milder assessment after the crisis has been over, so that a more stringent exercise of judgement during the crisis should have justified the claim that the loss provisions were too large during the crisis. It has been claimed, as stated, that the banking crisis, based on the loss regulations, was a long-coming paper crisis. The Commission’s conclusion on this issue is that such a view is manifestly incorrect. The main reason for the banks’ large losses in the period 1986-93 is that the lending expansion in the 1980s made many banks very risky and that the decline in the years 1986-93 contributed to the increase in risk. The majority therefore cannot see that there is any basis for claiming that the crisis was due to the loss regulations. The banking crisis showed with great clarity that the large Norwegian commercial banks did not have sufficient soundness to face a severe recession. This may be due to the fact that the statutory soundness requirements in the years before the crisis were too low, or it may also be because the crisis was so serious that the banks had had problems with better soundness themselves. The Commission concludes that a clear reason for the loss of DnB’s equity, the Credit Fund and Focus Bank during the crisis was that banks’ soundness was too low at the beginning of the crisis. The lack of soundness was clearly a contributing cause of the crisis. It is an important principle that the banks themselves should be responsible for their soundness. This responsibility has not been taken sufficiently seriously by the large Norwegian commercial banks. The banks themselves have to take a great deal of responsibility for entering the crisis years with weak soundness. However, the authorities also have to bear some responsibility for the soundness of banks by the fact that the capital adequacy requirements in Norway were, in isolation, relatively low until the introduction of the so-called BIS rules in 1992. The Committee therefore concludes that from the mid-1980s the weak soundness of the large Norwegian commercial banks led to the fact that the banks had no real first-line defence against the strong recession. Many suggest that stricter capital adequacy requirements and less acceptance of subordinated loan capital would hamper the expansion of banks and improve the soundness of banks. But it is difficult to say what consequences this would have had for the course of the banking crisis now in retrospect. So some words about crisis management in the period 1991-1993. The majority of the Commission’s attention is concentrated on the crisis in the three major credit, Focus Bank and DnB business banks and on the processes that led to the writing down of the ordinary share capital to zero. As far as banking law is concerned, it is worth noting from the Commission’s observation that the legislation before the 1991 amendments was too weak to deal with a major banking crisis. I would like to point out that amendments were made to the Business Bank Act of November 1991 on the power of the King to decide on the write-down of the share capital, and that this authority was used by two Royal Resolutions of 20 December 1991. Then the shares in Focus Bank and the Credit Fund were written down to zero, to cover uncovered losses that emerged from the bank's revised balance sheet. Changes were also made to the Commercial Banks Act in January 1993 concerning multi-class share capital, the purpose of which was to avoid the State Banking Insurance Fund contributing new capital to a bank before the owners of lower-priority equity took part in the accounting losses. I would like to make it clear that, in common with these legislative changes, the underlying position was that the use of state capital deposits was to ensure the further operation of the banks, not to save the shareholders. It was in my opinion and the committee majority's view a correct attitude. So the question of putting the banks under public administration. The central point here was the weakness and lack of equity coverage. Thus, placing the bank under public administration would not improve the bank's equity coverage, as the continued free operation could only be ensured through the external injection of so-called fresh capital. The Commission points out that parts of the debate on the banking crisis in Norway are born of a view that the State could and should have saved crisis banks without causing the losses to affect the shareholders. Some claim that the easiest way a rescue operation could have taken place would have been to let the government deposit the capital needed by the crisis banks because they had suffered great losses and could not continue without the introduction of so-called fresh equity, but without letting this go beyond the shareholders. But the majority of the committee is of the opinion that this would mean that the State would then enter into and cover losses that the share capital would bear. In the winter 1990-91, the contours of a more general banking crisis began to recede. As part of crisis management, the State Banking Insurance Fund was established by law of 15 March 1991. This must be seen in the context of the weak performance of banks and the weak financial position of the Insurance Fund of Business Banks and the SAVE Banks Insurance Fund resulting therefrom. The two funds played a major role in dealing with crises in individual banks from the late 1980s. However, when the crisis became more general, and even the biggest banks got into trouble, it turned out that the funds available to the funds were too small, and the result was that public action was needed. The State Banking Insurance Fund was to serve as a third-line defence for the Norwegian banking system, so that this defence would come into effect when it appeared that the bank's own funds and the two banking insurance funds were no longer sufficient. As regards the procedure for the write-down of the shares in the credit fund and Focus Bank to zero, I would point out that the decisive step was taken by unilateral decision of the public authority based on the business banking law, Section 32, sixth paragraph. The Commission raises the issue of whether shareholders’ interests were adequately safeguarded in this process and indicates that the valuation to some extent was disputed. However, the Commission underlines that it sees no reason to believe that another procedure would have had an impact on the result that the shares were written down to zero without compensation. In the Commission's view, the economic basis for the two royal resolutions to write down the share capital to zero is beyond reasonable doubt. It is important to stress that the main impression of the Commission is that the way in which the crisis in the Bank of Credit and Focus was managed in 1991 by the central actors was largely sound, in view of the serious situation that had arisen and the time available in the autumn of 1991. The Commission goes so far as to claim that it was reasonable to say that the way in which the crisis in the credit system was managed was impressive. Even I have no problem joining such an opinion. In its report, the Commission points to the lessons learned from the banking crisis that it is important to carry forward, for example: to prevent any future crises and, on the one hand, to deal with any crises that may nevertheless arise. The Committee welcomes the fact that the Commission has made assessments and proposals on which it might consider them. But at this point, it is not natural for Stortinget to decide on these without the whole of this case complex being thoroughly reviewed by the Government in cooperation with the interested parties. I would also like to show that the Banking Law Commission is fully engaged in its work. It is therefore natural that we now give the Government, through the Minister of Finance, the opportunity to look at different approaches in a wider context, so as to possibly come back to the Grand Duchy with proposals for action and changes in the law. I therefore do not want to go into the various proposals now, which are also discussed in detail in the vote. But what I want to do is finally thank the Commission for the important work it has done for the Storting. This work has been both important and necessary to prevent possible future banking crises in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e402	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e405	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for finally saying that it was necessary to set up a commission to go through this. I think it was nice, as the Workers' Party fought what they could against this, until they realized that the battle was lost and that there was a large majority who would be in favour of this. I interpret the case rapporteur as admitting that it was necessary to shut down the Commission. I have two questions in connection with what the rapporteur said. He framed – and rejected – some of the alternative solutions that have been mentioned in the debate, but he forgot the most current and the most sensible solution. It would be interesting to hear whether he does not believe that it would be appropriate to follow the legislation at the time and put the banks under public administration – that is what all the shareholders had expected to do, because that is what was in the legislative system – and link it with a state guarantee to the depositors of the banks, that is. The lenders. If the rapporteur agreed that this had been done, would the banking crisis be overcome without these capital deposits, because the State guarantee had been replaced? Then the bank crisis had come out with a better result also for the shareholders, because then the real values that were hidden and that have been hidden all along would have come to the surface. The second is whether the rapporteur agrees that some kind of primary responsibility must be placed with the authorities, which directly prevented and refused the banks the possibility to set aside the adequate reserves for soundness by not agreeing to increase the enbloc provision because the state in the 1980s was more interested in obtaining tax revenue, and was terrified of being set aside for health reserves instead of paying a high tax to the State. Does the rapporteur agree that there is a primary responsibility for the authorities, when they prevented banks from building up reserves?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e414	First of all: The Banking Commission’s report has been a necessary document in the sense that this has been in line with what the Stortinget has previously decided, that it was necessary to have a complete review of the course of the banking crisis, on the basis of the recognition that the reports, such as: The Munthe Committee presented, did not adequately explain the background to the problems posed by the banking crisis. In this way, it has been an instructive work for me; I have personally learned a lot about the behaviour of banks – and also about unculture – in a quite strenuous political situation. To Carl I. Hagen's question, I would like to answer the following question: In my opinion, it is striking that only the Progress Party has its own history of the course of events around the banking crisis. Neither the Banking Commission, previous proceedings here in the Chamber, nor the current Committee of the Control and Constitution Committee agree in any way with the claims made by the Progress Party here, which Carl I. Hagen is now raising concrete questions. The Progress Party emphasises in the setting that there has always been a different policy from the other parties on Stortinget. I guess no one can doubt – neither do I. But that this policy should have resulted in another outcome of the banking crisis, even in periods when the Progress Party was barely represented in this room, there is no root cause to claim.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e423	I would like to thank the Commission, which the rapporteur said. It is also a thank you from the Workers' Party to the majority on the Stortinget – all except the Workers' Party – for ensuring that the Commission was set up, against the strong will of the Workers' Party and the counter-measure at the end. It has obviously been a learning process to work in the committee – I think it has been useful. I would like to ask three very specific questions to the case rapporteur. Does the rapporteur, on behalf of the Workers' Party, agree that the R-notes from the government of Gro Harlem Brundtland's time should not be delivered, so that, as it points out, the Commission has not been given sufficient insight into this part of economic policy, which was crucial to the development and resolution of the banking crisis? - That was question 1. The Labour Party has consistently argued that the cause of the banking crisis was in the unimpeded lending policy of the Willoch government and the lack of consistency between credit policy and interest rate policy. Now, however, the Labour Party in the setting insists that they: ‘records in such a way that there is little reason to believe that the transition to a free-interest-forming system had a significant impact on the demand for loans during the rise’. Is this a new version? – That was question 2. My third question: The Labour Party has consistently argued that it would have been much better if a tax reform had been implemented in the 1980s, in order to avoid the foundation, development and course of the banking crisis. What was the reason why the Workers' Party itself waited six years to implement a tax reform, when they gained power in 1986? If this were to be simply a matter of intervention, such tax reform should have been proposed by the Labour Party in the 1980s, not in the 1990s.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e443	When Per-Kristian Foss tries to get answers from me as rapporteur of the case and as a representative of the Workers' Party on why we have not acted differently from what was done, I just want to refer to my post. I think, first of all, this case is not well-founded in constructing a disagreement about what is really behind the establishment of the Banking Crisis Commission. The Labour Party believes, as I also said in my post, that this Commission has done an incredibly good job. And the document they have produced is also necessary in the sense that it can provide a basis for what, in our opinion, the Government now has to go into and evaluate, among other things. the specific questions raised by Per-Kristian Foss. Nor do I feel quite convinced that the solutions that were in Per-Christian Foss' posts now will be what should form the basis for the government's further work. I'm actually leaving more to the Government, then in interaction with the parties involved, to consider how to solve the issues raised in this line as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e448	I thought I would give the case rapporteur an opportunity to answer the questions I asked in my first reply. I would therefore just like to repeat the two questions, because I think they were relevant, based on the rapporteur's own statement. What is the rapporteur's assessment of the alternative way, namely to comply with the banking legislation at the time and to place the banks under public administration, connected with the state guarantee to the depositors, and what does he think the process would have been like then? The second is, does the rapporteur agree that banks themselves tried to strengthen their soundness by applying for increased access to enbloc funds' provisions, i.e. they would have an increase, beyond the 5 p.m. limit that was in force, and agreeing that the authorities had agreed to the banks' interest in strengthening their own soundness, would the reserves have been much better, and they would have had more to face when the problems came? Does the rapporteur agree that the authorities must also take a great deal of responsibility for the situation, when they directly refused to build sufficient reserves on tax-free enbloc reserves?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e457	Both the Committee's position and the contribution I have made on behalf of the Committee and also the Committee's majority on some key points should have answered the questions that Carl I. Hagen is now raising. In conclusion, I also said in my speech that the Committee on a number of points does not deal with the Commission's actual proposals, but rather leaves, as I said, to the Government to assess these issues in cooperation with the interested parties. As mentioned above, the Banking Law Commission is now at work, and it may also be positive and helpful to know what conclusions this Commission will draw, which in turn may form the basis for the future management of these issues by the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e462	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e466	Let me first congratulate the majority of the population and the state with a very successful bank robbery. As I interpret the last letter from the Minister of Finance of 26 April, the total gain that the State has gained from this bank account up to now is approximately. $20 billion. And it's not bad at all by the state to have the power to get such a win; I think it's well done. So I maintain the long-standing claim of the Progress Party that the Commission has gone into this, not a banking crisis, but the biggest bank bank bank in the century. And when I say that, of course, it's based on seeing a wide range of events in the context, seeing actions, actions, law decisions that the state has made, along with the failure sins that the state has also committed. That's the sum of all of this that makes me maintain this claim. In the attitude of the Progress Party fraction, we have tried to sketch out the most important of the conditions that make us hold on to this claim, and I'm going to go through it quickly. First, the deregulation of the banking industry. The Commission says, as I interpret it afterwards, that it was unfortunate to deregulate the lending ratio without simultaneously deregulating the pricing, i.e. the interest rate management. An artificially low interest rate was maintained, but fully opened up to lending, and that, of course, led to an explosion of loans, loans that otherwise would not have arrived, to people who might not really have been able to raise the large loans. It was one mistake, which only the Progress Party raised when it happened. The other mistake was that instead of following the new law on the Bank of Norway, both the Norwegian Bank broke the law, and the government broke the law. Norway’s Bank did not have access under the law to provide liquidity loans to commercial banks. It did, however, in the mid-1980s, because it was probably what the then Governor of Skånland said: understanding that it was what the political environment wanted. Of course, a central bank must comply with the law, it has an obligation to address the government if it is to do something that is not in accordance with the law. The Bank of Norway is obliged to require instructions after kgl. Resolution to do things – it did not do the central bank, it listened to so-called dubbed signals and maybe some phone conversation. I hope the Bank of Norway has learned that it will deal with the legislation and the regulatory system. And if Norway's Bank believes it makes sense to do something other than what a regulation says, then Norway's Bank has the obligation to inform the government in writing about it, and the obligation to say from what the consequences of the regulation are if it is to be complied with. There I have doubts as to whether the new central bank management has really accepted this important principle of writing, and to make sure to follow a regulation – if you think it is stupid, you should ask in writing for a new one, and not just do the exact opposite of what is in the regulation. We also proposed an independent central bank at the time. An independent central bank in the 1980s would probably have behaved like central banks most, and then this lending explosion and interest rate regulation would not have been maintained. The main responsibility is of course with the government Willoch, who did nothing to increase interest rates. In retrospect, Prime Minister Kåre Willoch has had the freedom that he has actually owed to the Workers' Party in terms of why the Willoch government did not propose an increase in interest rates. Completely meaningless, because the then head of government Willoch knew that had he proposed free interest formation, with an increase in interest rates, there would have been a majority for that in the Storting. The progress party was in favour, and with our votes there would have been a majority for this. Here Willoch tries to transfer responsibility to the Workers' Party, because his own government did not manage to man up to take a stand. And in retrospect, he has also said that one of the reasons for the so-called banking crisis was that there was no provision for an increase in interest rates at an early stage, which could have resulted in a reduction in loans and thereby also reduced losses later, when it turned out that many of the loans were too poorly funded by the borrowers. This applies to the lack of soundness of the banking industry. This is also due to the authorities, which refused banks provisions for the enbloc fund, because the state repeatedly prioritised its own tax revenue rather than the soundness of the banks. If the soundness of banks had been assessed by the State before their tax revenues, the reserves built up in the banking industry would have been much greater. If the authorities had also failed to approve subordinated loan capital in line with share capital in some of these calculation systems and insisted on increased share capital, the banks would have been forced to improve their soundness at an earlier date of increased share capital instead of the much more loosely subordinated loan capital. It is a government error that directly impairs the soundness of the banking industry. Then it's banking supervision. The Commission also admits and reveals that the banking supervision of the State was too poor. It should be borne in mind that the country’s authorities towards borrowers had for a long time marketed ‘safe as the bank’ and told in the polls after elections that in Norway we have a banking industry that is under the strong supervision of the public — one can trust the banks. This is not a legal responsibility – I'm not just talking about the legal, I'm talking about the holistic. Unfortunately, the moral responsibility of the Commission did not go into it at all – that it had been marketed to the Norwegian population that the banks were solid, they were under the good supervision of public authorities. The Commission says that no, that supervision was very poor, did not have resources, did not do the job properly and did not have the necessary tools. It was the authorities that failed when it came to supervision. As far as loss disposal policy is concerned, it is clear that the tightening up here came at a very unfortunate time. Some say that nothing else has happened in other countries. It's possible. But when the problems began to escalate, there was no other than Norwegian authorities that, on a voluntary basis, launched a dramatic increase in bank demands to set aside for loss provisions, and changed the policy that had been pursued there. That was not necessary! And as I have done before, I would argue – to take the second point – that if they had done what the law said, coupled with a state guarantee for depositors, these usual capital standards would in reality have been suspended. They would not apply, because the banks would no longer be free and independent banks that were normally operated in accordance with the requirements of banking law on equity, etc., then they would have been subject to public administration under banking law, and then the State guarantee would have replaced it. And as long as the state guaranteed the depositors and lenders to the banks, there would be no reason to take any crisis or run on the banks at all. Then one could only have worked on it until the positive capital appeared, as it did in 1993-94-95, and which is now up to a $20 billion – it would have come. I have mentioned the equity/core capital requirements to this extent. The offences of changing monetary and credit policies in 1985 and 1986 were also an important part. The legislation was not followed, where it stated what the central bank could and could not do – and it was clear from the legislation that what was presented in the national budget was binding and guiding until something else was done. It was not presented to the Stortinget that one would do anything other than what was stated in the national budget. There was also an error that exacerbated the situation. So until what we find to be the most serious, and that's the Constitutional provisions on retroactive effect. It is possible that the Commission, which has looked at the legal aspect, has technical and legal rights. I wish it could have looked a little bit more at what is the reality, as it didn't. And the reality was that the bank shareholders had bought bank shares and put their savings capital into shares in trust with the law in force, and the law in force said that if the bank's equity decreased below certain limits, the bank would be placed under public administration. That's what it said. That's what was the prerequisite for their investment. When there was such a situation, suddenly the political majority was tearing the carpet under the bank shareholders. Instead of following the law, you made a new law for the acute situation, at the furious speed, where you gave yourself the power to zero the value of bank shares, without any independent agency testing it, without actually having any chance of going to court. Those who tried were crushed by the state's demand that they cover their own costs, and then there were not many who had the opportunity to do so. We think that's the most serious thing. Instead of following the law that the shareholders trusted when they put their savings capital in bank shares, the law was amended, where the government gave itself powers. And it was a state that, via the central bank, was also the principal creditor of these banks. The state was the one that would lose out if there were some sort of bankruptcy-like situation -- what it shouldn't and can be in the banks, with a public administration. The state used its legislative power to give itself special advantages and protect its own interests, and it did so at the expense of a few hundred thousand Northmen who, in confidence of the country's authorities, had invested their capital in bank shares. We think that's the most serious thing. The majority of investors should be ashamed of the behaviour they have shown toward these bank shareholders – the thousands of small bank shareholders who have been ruined or stolen a lot of money through their bank account. The same thing is true here as in case of expropriation, i.e. full compensation. Some people say this technically that it was the Norwegian Bank itself who decided that they should cancel out the shares – after the state had gone into the so-called auxiliary capital and acquired the majority of the shares, after they had made sure to demonstrate through Focus Bank that if the bank did not do as it was told, it would nevertheless be decided by the Government to zero out, which it had granted permission to itself. And then they say it was voluntary from the Norwegian Bank! It wasn't entirely voluntary. There was as much volunteer as when you put a gun loaded, against the head of a human being and say, "Do it like that! So he says, "Yes, I will." And then you say that it was voluntary you did it. When we go through this whole matter and see all the state's actions, shortcomings and decisions, we think this is a very sad matter for the Kingdom. I would like to address the proposal contained in the vote. We actually think that we should now do a calculation of the totality. As far as I can interpret the last letter from the Minister of Finance, of 26 April, it is about NOK 20 billion, which is the net state today. I know that someone will try to say that you could use this capital in other ways, earn money on interest, etc. That's not what we're talking about, we're talking about what you actually have of values today. We think there should be compensation for those who are unconstitutional, in our opinion – at least if you look a little more at the morals of the Constitution, and not at the technical level. The values are de facto taken over without being court-martial, and – as the Commission has also said – it would be natural to do as one did in Sweden, that if one were to zero out shares, it would have gone through and approved by someone else. For example, if you were to do this, you'd have to do it. The goodwill value has arrived. It's not the share capital and the money that the state has invested in the banks, which makes them flourishing business today. It's the branch network, it's the staff, it's the business, it's the contacts and it's the knowledge -- everything that's been lying there, and that would have been there if you had put the banks under public administration -- that makes the banks go well today. We think it's sad that because of these things you weren't willing now to give a substitute, some refund to the many hundreds of thousands of shareholders who had their savings capital in bank shares. When the state has increased its value of nearly 20 billion kroner, it could have been so great that it had said that the main responsibility was with the authorities. It was also with the banks. But the hundreds of thousands of small shareholders should have received compensation and compensation, because it is the state that has the primary responsibility for what the others call the "crisis" and we call the "largest banker of the century."
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e506	Carl I. Hagen has drawn up the proposal he referred to. Otherwise, the President will say that he did not think 'bank ran' is a parliamentary expression in this context. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e513	The representative Hagen has now for quite a few minutes tried to blame anyone other than those who actually was to blame for this going so steeply. It is described by the excellent Commission that has presented its report. The banks, their management, their administration, were actually more concerned with obtaining market shares and becoming as much as possible than taking into account those people who either through deposits in the banks or by other means actually helped to borrow the banks' money, so that they could do business. If the management of the banks on behalf of the shareholders had been more concerned with what should have been reasonable, namely to ensure that the money they put and managed was secure, this situation would not have been achieved. Could it not have been a good thing that the representative Hagen might have tried to consider that theme instead of trying to blame everyone else? I will come to the conclusion in a later article that of course there are many people who have to take responsibility for the fact that this ended up as wrong as it did. But does not the representative Hagen agree that the main responsibility for this was the banks themselves, when in the 1980s they were more concerned with obtaining market shares than with the security of the shareholders and depositors?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e520	The answer is no. The banks did not have the primary responsibility. The banks had some responsibility – yes. The main responsibility was with the state authorities. It was the state authorities that, together with the central bank, were completely irresponsible and, contrary to the law, gave liquidity loans to the commercial banks, thereby enabling them to increase their loans. The state had also amended the law and put state-appointed representatives into the banks' organs, and none of them said no to borrowers. On the contrary, what often came from workers' party politicians was that at least ordinary people who were lukewarm, loans, as they had done before, should not be denied. You should actually give as many loans as possible. And at least it's usually assumed that the authorities have the primary responsibility if you get an inflation that goes up to 10-12-14 pst., which not many would have calculated. Then the interest rate went up – not the real interest rate, but the real nominal interest rate. That's the nominal one you have to pay on your loans. And it's probably the fact that the Workers' Party, when it's in opposition, is very critical of the authorities if you get high inflation. But it was largely the Workers' Party that carried it out. It's the responsibility of the authorities. And then to all the things I mentioned. The authorities said no as the banks would take into account the soundness of the banks and increase the limits for setting aside enbloc funds. The Banking Association reported that using subordinated loan capital instead of equity capital weakened the soundness of the banks. The authorities approved it. All these things speak for the main responsibility of the authorities. The banks have also made mistakes – I agree, and I have said that – but the main responsibility lies with the national authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e529	I agree with Mr Hagen that the Commission has done a thorough job, and on the basis of previous documents and investigations as well as new investigations, it concludes that the crisis was due to failure in the Ministry of Finance, but that the main responsibility for the subsequent banking crisis rests on the banks themselves. The last thing I record is that the representative Hagen now disagrees with me. The right also agrees with the Commission’s criticism that the authorities prevented an arrangement with independent determination of the value of the shares – we now hopefully get a new arrangement in this way – and that the amendments to the tax law in December 1991 were a political act that made the loss worse for the small savers, because they were thus not deducted from their losses. However, the Smith report clarifies that in the case of Focus Bank and the Credit Fund, it was the state intervention that triggered the nullification of the shares – but it was because there was no doubt that the share capital had actually been lost. The Board of Directors and the General Assembly of the DnB, on the other hand, made the decision that hit their owners. Then I would like to ask the representative Hagen: Where in the Commission's report does he support the view that a replacement should be recommended? Is it the case that the Progress Party actually supports the Commission's report at this point? The Commission is clearly saying: «The Commission may see no basis for substitution.» And how would the state be liable for liability, when, for example, DnB's own legal bodies even nullified the shares?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e543	Yes, that's right, we support the Commission's assessment of compensation. We have a different view. It's because we have a completely different opportunity to base a completely different mandate on that work and the business we're doing in Stortinget. I think one of the Commission's shortcomings, because they had to stick to the mandate and to the law, is just a lot of the legal stuff. I say that the state has used its legislative power to give itself special advantages. The legislative power was used to invalidate the legislation underpinning shareholder trust in the system, namely that banks should be placed under public administration. Then, among other things, he knew. the bank shareholders that then the goodwill of the banks would come to the surface by a realistic assessment. Legally, the Banking Commission cannot use a value of goodwill, because it is not in the law with regard to the banking accounting systems, any access to include goodwill. But in reality, it was below – the value of the branch network, the value of the positive portfolio, the value of the knowledge. It was the authorities who said no to a foreign bank, for example. may be able to make an offer to take over – that was the authorities, including the regulatory authority. So we're doing an assessment on a much wider basis. The Banking Commission could not complain that shareholders were not legally allowed to require an independent assessment of the value of the companies. We who are politicians can do what we're going to do, we're going to look at things other than the law. We're going to base the goodwill and all the mistakes that the authorities made. So they did it legally, and that's why I insist that that word the president won't allow me to use is done in a legally good way – that's legal, but not morally. It is the legislators who have used their legislative powers to take over these banks, and it is contrary to the principles of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e554	The President appreciates his respect!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e557	Hagen's posts are a strange collusion of post-war clocks and not least excuses for those who actually bear the responsibility for the banking crisis. Summed up, if I can understand Hagen right, there are two things that have been important to Hagen through this work. It is 1) to ensure that the small shareholders get their money back, 2) to place as much of the responsibility for the banking crisis on the state as possible. Let's take the first point first. After all, the shareholders lost their capital simply because it was risk capital. This has been a useful reminder for many that if you invest in shares, it's risk capital. And how can Hagen feel that it is the taxpayers – for whom he generally cares – that I understand – who are going to go in and cover the shareholders' losses at risk? The banks had, in fact, gone bankrupt – that's what the Banking Commission's report shows. So that means that the share capital was lost. Of course you can be sorry for that, and a lot of shareholders obviously got tired of it. There is no problem in understanding that. But why taxpayers should sponsor, subsidize those losses, is completely incomprehensible to me, even from the general point of view of Hagen. And then to the second point. It is quite right that there are many things to criticise in the handling of the authorities, not least the policy-makers' handling of the release through the 1980s, and the lack of legislation beyond the 1990s. But if you leave it, and just look at the following: Some banks went bankrupt, other banks didn't go bankrupt – why? So some banks did a banking trade that kept track of the authorities' lack of framework, others did not. And finally, we're left with the following: somebody showed the necessary discretion and the necessary responsibility, others didn't. And in general, that's how you should be responsible for the actions you're actually doing. So the board and the management of the banks that went bankrupt went bankrupt, and they didn't take that responsibility. And this is my question to Hagen: Don't Hagen think it's right that people should be responsible for their own actions?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e570	The President is of the opinion that ‘cohesion’ used in this context is also not a parliamentaryly accepted expression.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e573	Now, Øystein Djupedal is relatively new in this case and in this room, and that's why he reveals a lack of knowledge. First of all, he is talking about taxpayers paying. But no one has mentioned anything about the taxpayers paying. Tax payers have earned $20 billion in the way that the majority has progressed, and they have done so at the expense of hundreds of thousands, among others. small shareholders. With our arrangement, they would not have lost anything at all. If we had given a state guarantee at the time – which was one of the options the Progress Party drew out – it would have been sensible, along with the public administration. Secondly, Djupedal is talking about bankruptcy. No banks went bankrupt, no banks could go bankrupt, because the law stipulated that if a bank came into such a situation, it would be placed under public administration. It was the law in force. And when the applicable law became applicable, what did the legislator do? Well, it changed the law to give itself access to take over the banks without compensation. And it has never been judged by the Supreme Court. No one has been able to come to the Supreme Court with a case in which one could have been judged constitutionally in relation to the spirit and principles of the Constitution by using the law to do so. So say, sir. Deep pedal ‘after-clock’. If you go through what has happened from 1981 to today, the Progress Party has stood for a different line in all these questions. We made proposals to free up interest rates to free market interest formation in 1984. We proposed an independent central bank to govern monetary and credit policy based on monetary protection – a low inflation, a stable monetary value. If only the two things had been done, we would never have had the banking crisis. We had a completely different way of dealing with the crisis along the way in the different treatments that were in Stortinget. We have a very good conscience. This has been wise all the way, and not just afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e584	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e588	The rapporteur has had a thorough impact on the key areas of the banking crisis, linked to the Commission’s investigation. We now have to deal with the Smith Commission's position on the causal relationship to the banking crisis. The Commission has carried out thorough and good work, which in its form is extensive and time-consuming. The mandate of this Commission, which was set up in 1997, was discussed very thoroughly in the Financial Committee in order to ensure, if possible, that all matters now had to be clarified, and possibly to conclude after the banking crisis in Norway. In the light of previous documents and investigations, the Commission was to examine further studies of the circumstances leading to the banking crisis, look at the pre- and during the crisis situation of the authorities, banks and banks’ insurance funds, see how similar crises were managed in other countries, and why crises in other countries have had a different outcome from those in Norway, and finally, but not least, how the experience from the banking crisis towards the end of the 1980s could be useful if a person were to experience similar situations in the future. It goes without saying that it is impossible to go to the depths of all these areas in a brief statement related to this debate. The committee points to two periods for the development of the crisis period. The first was in the mid-1980s, when the liberalisation of the financial market took place, with a significant increase in loans from the Bank of Norway to the banks, and further from banks to borrowers, including low-interest policies, fiscal policies and the conversion of public supervision. The second period came about 1990, when the banking crisis was at its highest. The Commission refers, inter alia, to: to the increase in the extent of the banks' identified losses and accounting provisions for future losses and to the nullification of the shares of the three major commercial banks. The cancellation of the ordinary shares was probably also one of the direct reasons why the Commission was set up in due time. The Munthe Committee and the WIKER Committee had previously made their choices without giving adequate answers, partly because perhaps the Munthe Committee had been appointed too early to be able to fully judge the main features of the sections of the banking crisis that were running parallel to the work of the sample. E.g. It was not possible for the Munthe Committee to say anything about the banking crisis in Sweden and Finland, which came somewhat later than in Norway. The Wiker Committee, appointed by the Credit Authority in 1990, was to investigate whether there had been any criminality related to bank losses. Here, it appears that banks — consciously or unconsciously — were unwilling to detect losses and take the accounting consequences, so that losses were greater than necessary. The selection found in several banks very critical. The Committee agrees that the Commission’s report provides a transparent and sound presentation of a comprehensive field of action. The Commission has demonstrated good judgment and obtained access to the necessary documents. I also feel that there is a basis for giving honor to the Commission for a work that has been done on a free and independent basis, in a very good way. There is reason to note the behaviour of banks in relation to the banking crisis — and in this context claimed that banks should take a significant responsibility for the emerging crisis by a strong expansionist in order to win market shares. The banks converted their operations significantly in the 1980s by decentralised credit decisions to the branch offices and where branches became separate profit and loss units. The main part of the wallpaper – over 80 pst. – came in industries that were sensitive to economic fluctuations. In this respect, the banks cannot be relieved of significant liability. For example, in the Norwegian Bank: the foreign losses were particularly large, and this in itself may have been the basis for the subsequent nullification of the shares in that bank. The Commission points out that there is no basis for saying that, with better supervision, the crisis would have been avoided. However, the failure of supervision provided the basis for the banking crisis, together with the already mentioned conditions related to banks' eagerness for greater market share and growth during this period of around 30 p.m. In this context, it is important to note that the Commission cannot see that failure to perform supervisory functions provides a basis for any legal liability of the State. In retrospect, it appears that not only the credit supervision, but also the Norwegian Bank, the Ministry of Finance and the banks, all underestimated the depth of the bank's problems. It has been claimed that the rules on loss disposal in Norway were stricter than in other countries and that the banking crisis was well under way a paper crisis caused by our strict rules. Until 1987 no rules were laid down in law or regulation on how commercial and savings banks were to assess and account for defaults and loss provisions, but banks were bound to the principle of sound accounting and to the rules of accounting and banking law. The banks also had an obligation before 1987 to assess the value of defaulted and impaired loan exposures. Much of the debate on the management of the crisis in banks has been linked to whether the resolutions of 20 November 1991 on writing the share capital of the credit fund and Focus Bank down to zero had been taken on the right basis. The Commission has examined whether there was an accounting basis for the nullification of the shares. They have looked at the liquidation value, the material value, the return value, the return on loss provisions, and also at the stock exchange value of banks per. 19 March 1989. The Commission’s overall assessment is that the decision to cancel out the shares is based on a sound basis. The share capital of the credit fund and Focus Bank was lost at this time. There is an overall committee that believes it is important to take into account the experience of the banking crisis in further work. However, the time has not come to deal with the proposals and recommendations made by the Commission. Crisis prevention is important, as well as solid capital adequacy to facilitate the stability of banks in the future. The Christian People's Party, together with the majority, does not want to take a decision on these issues now, but asks the Government to assess today's loss provisions in order to make improvements if possible, in order to counteract crises in times of recession. In the light of experience gained from the banking crisis, there is a basis for imposing a specific responsibility on banks to prevent future crises.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e630	The banking crisis has been subject to many analyses, investigations and assessments. After all, a parliamentary committee of inquiry represents the toughest instrument used by Stortinget on a rare occasion – except for national law and the exercise of parliamentary responsibility. I record that no batches will use such instruments. However, a prerequisite for a review commission to have a value is to be prepared to read the Commission’s report and base the Commission’s assessments, at least as far as the facts are concerned. The Progress Party has written its own story, both about the banking crisis, its course and its solution. As regards the course of the banking crisis, the history of the Progress Party has no actual evidence in the Commission’s report. Nor, in the case of civil liability issues, is there any coverage for the conclusion of the Progress Party in the Commission’s report. Now, of course, you can cancel your assessments. When you don’t like lawyers, you tend to say ‘such technical-legal’ assessments. When you like lawyers, you tend to put the greater emphasis on the ‘legal’ assessments, with a special pronunciation of the word. I record that on this occasion Hagen adds the word ‘technical’. That means that he disagrees with the legal assessments. So lawyers can be used for many things. I think it is very interesting in the substance that provides a basis for both thought and reflection – the idea especially linked to the proposals that you have for the future. Such a reasoned legal assessment and other assessments by the Commission do not, of course, prevent individuals from using the legal apparatus to see whether there are any other conclusions. It hasn't been tried yet. The time will show you if it will be tried. Unfortunately, for the sake of history, the Commission has not been given access to all the government archives, all the R-notes during the government periods it has assessed. It's creepy, because it had made a better contribution to modern history. But it is worth remembering that the Ministry of Finance has also not wanted to write this part of the story about itself. I expect that it will be changed under this government. In the right we also take inwards that the Commission does not find a basis for replacing previous shareholders, and stresses the importance of this being established after a thorough and independent investigation. On the other hand, I reserve myself against the belief that because the Commission carries out such a review and expresses such a conclusion, it is the only and true meaning. On several occasions, together with the Progress Party, the right has tried to obtain political support for at least partial compensation to the shareholders through the advantageous purchase of shares when the banks had come over the crisis. And we have proposed other arrangements, including an extended AMS regime when selling state shares in one of the banks. That would have given a compensation to everyone for 700 kroner per year. The allowance you would use, if it had become a majority for it. But on that occasion it was the Progress Party – of all – that secured a majority against such a proposal, together with the Workers' Party and the SV. Among the main conclusions of the Smith Commission report is that the main cause of the crisis was the weak soundness of the banks, which the authorities with their policies had contributed to. The root of the crisis, however, is far deeper, and is to be found in depth by the Ministry of Finance's failure in economic policy and the Bank's supervision in the 1980s. However, the main responsibility for the subsequent banking crisis rests on the banks themselves. The Commission notes that this was not a paper crisis created by the loss provision rules. In many ways, it was the claim of just such a paper crisis and the question of the possible liability of the state towards the private shareholders that led to the Commission being set up. The conclusion that the crisis was real and no paper crisis based on accounting or unfair policy assumptions is a useful clarification. Nevertheless, the Commission strongly criticises the authorities, which prevented an arrangement with independent determination of the value of the shares. If the authorities at the time had cared about it, I think the bitterness and frustration that many small savers are left with today could have been prevented. However, the majority now concludes that they want such an independent body. It is not an immaterial advance. Had we had it that time, I think we had a different situation on the Norwegian stock market today. For its part, the right to benefit from the right of the shareholders to obtain the value established by an independent body and following a procedure which respects the basic requirements of the opposition. In addition, it is not unreasonable, in our opinion, that the State should bear the costs of such a valuation process. This is important for the Government to follow up. I have more confidence that this government will do it than the previous governments. The question of loss provisions has been central to the crisis debate. The Commission concludes that the Norwegian legislation mainly complies with the accounting requirements of other Western countries. However, what is important to take inwards is the tendency for future loss provisions to be too small in good times. The solution may lie in the Danish system, which allows banks to set aside funds for future losses with the right to deduct the provisions from the tax settlement. In any case, the Right recommends that the Danish tax-deducted loss reserves system be assessed in the follow-up to this case – it is addressed to the Minister of Finance and the current government. The Smith Commission sees a clear need for clarification of the relationship between Norway’s Bank and the Ministry of Finance, and considers that it is appropriate to consider giving Norway’s Bank a formal right to direct views and advice to the Stortinget, as it does. is done in Sweden. This, I think, is an interesting recording that inspires further reflection and possibly follow-up. In today's system, of course, the Financial Committee has the opportunity to ask the Governor, possibly with the Minister of Finance, to meet before the Committee. I record that it had not been done during the development of this case, but there is nothing in the system to prevent it. It is worth considering whether such a meeting for any of the bodies of the Storting should have a further design. Let me also stress the Commission's conclusion that it is not reasonable to assume that the crisis would have been averted if supervision had worked better in the mid-1980s, and that no one can reasonably be criticised for not having anticipated the serious banking crisis to peak in the mid-1980s. On the other hand, the Right is critical of the way in which the government in the late 1980s dealt with the policy in a clear recession. Here our conclusions differ somewhat from those of the sample. I have to say that I think the selection in this area is somewhat weak. This may be due to the lack of access to all notes. I record that historians outside the Commission and outside the Ministry of Finance have other and somewhat more critical assessments of the side effects of policies on the banking crisis at the end of the 1980s. Right, as I said, it is critical that the majority of Stortinget in the autumn of 1991 – in the middle of the banking crisis – changed the rules of the game through a change in law. We still believe that it would be possible to get out of the crisis in total if a state guarantee had been used against the creditors, deposits of state capital, write-down of private capital – but without zeroing it – combined with later making new issues. In the opinion of the Right, the use of adhocover when a banking crisis has broken out is poor luck and is contrary to the legal principles of predictable and firm framework conditions that can be trusted. However, we have a fairly clear history on this point, as we have gone against this process in the Storting on every occasion. The right is with a solid majority when we now send the Smith Commission's report to the Government and ask it to follow it up, taking into account the comments of the Control and Constitutional Committee. The follow-up work is very important. I hope the government prioritizes it, takes it seriously, because the most important thing is not to examine the history, but to learn something from it. It was the former Governor Hermod Skånland who concluded that the banking crisis was due to three factors: ‘bad banking, bad politicians and bad luck’. He did not make a percentage distribution between the three factors. It has also not provided the basis for the investigation commission, although the insight has become more detailed and more in-depth.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e662	Since the Central Party is not represented in the Control and Constitutional Committee, I will refer you to the letter from the Financial Committee meeting on 13 April, where the Central Party informed that one joined the comments of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party in the position of the Control and Constitutional Committee. In the present case, I would like to add that the independent investigation commission which has been working here has provided a comprehensive overview and also an assessment of both the economic development of the 1980s, the rules and practices for loss provision, the soundness of the banks and the operating situation which occurred particularly in three large stock banks in the period 1991-93. As a general conclusion, I would like to say that the measures taken by the board of directors through legislative decisions and the State Banking Insurance Fund, in particular in 1991 vis-à-vis the Bank of Credit and Focus Bank, were necessary and secured further banking operations. When it comes to developments in the 1980s, it was enough, as the Commission has pointed out, a one-sided focus on growth and volume of loans and less attention to credit ratings of the various exposures and soundness of banks. Growth in lending was an important criterion for the development of banks, and many banks established themselves in new geographical areas with a view to taking new market shares and collecting expected growth. Although economic policy must take its share of the responsibility for the demand for loans that arose in the mid-1980s, the banks themselves do not recognise responsibility for meeting the demand for all types of loans that arose so uncritically. In this context, the shareholders, through their elected bodies, were behind the lending policy that was established, and must, of course, be responsible for it. I would also like to say that one might not quickly enough have the power to set up effective supervisory bodies at a time when the liberalisation of the credit market was a fact and structural change became a reality. More active supervision may have contributed to strengthening the credit ratings and ratings of the quality of banks' equity and soundness. An important part of the banking crisis is related to the practice of legislation and the management of identified and expected losses. The Commission makes it clear that, although no specific rules and regulations were laid down before 1987 on how banks should consider accounting for defaulting and loss-making exposures, the banks were nevertheless bound by the corresponding accounting and banking laws and otherwise the principle of sound accounting. Many banks probably evaluated the cumulative provision through enbloc provision of up to 1 pst. for losses on accumulated loans and guarantees as well as adequate collateral, which in retrospect appeared not to be covering. I would say that the loss regulation given in 1987, in many ways, did not introduce anything new, but to some extent limited their understanding when loans were to be counted as deferred. The regulation also included, as I see it, a more uniform practice between banks. The Commission further notes that the basis for the write-down of the axles to zero given in kgl. the resolution of 20 December 1991, was justified. The amendments to commercial banking laws in November 1991 and beyond in 1993 confirm that the intention was to avoid the introduction of new capital by the State Banking Insurance Fund before the owners of lower-priority equity had taken part in the accounting responsibility. In common with these legislative changes, the aim of the use of state capital deposits in a stock exchange was to ensure the financial industry and the banks' continued operation, and not to deprive shareholders of the responsibility to be borne by them. Finally, I would like to underline what I said in the introduction, that we agree with the comments of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party in the setting, which the case-speaker Gunnar Schaug made in his speech earlier today in a thorough manner has done well for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e690	The case rapporteur has done some good for the historical course of this case, a statement that I can mainly agree to. The aim of discussing the banking crisis at the beginning of this decade must be first and foremost to look ahead and how to prevent, or at least mitigate, the possibility of that type of crisis reoccurring. In particular, there are three factors that need to be considered: Have the authorities conducted a stable economic policy? Have the banks themselves taken a responsibility, that is to say, taken too much risk? How do the authorities deal with the problems when the crisis first arises? Firstly, the authorities failed in economic policy throughout the 1980s. Throughout the decade, the gas was limped during rising times and braked during downtime. Willoch’s majority government lifted the latest credit regulations and unrestricted access to credit at artificially low interest rates motivated for investment in speculative projects. With rising prices and unlimited right to deduct debt interest on pre-tax income, borrowing became profitable – very profitable. The civil majority government did not have the political courage to raise interest rates. Willoch has often pointed out that for his part he would have liked to cool down the economy, but owes him no support for getting this to, not least from the Workers' Party and the Socialist opposition. An action such as SV, and later also the Workers' Party, strongly advocated limiting the right to deduct interest on taxes, could have been an instrument. Given that the level of interest rates could not be eroded because of fixed-rate policy, the Smith Commission points out that this would probably have been the most effective means of slowing down lending growth. In addition, this debt-rate mechanism was an unfair mechanism that worked so that the higher the income, the greater the gain. Therefore, it was not possible to achieve this with the right parties and to abolish that scheme before the tax reform many years later. Loan growth, consumer feast, the happy jappa era dominated in the mid-1980s. Bobla exploded in 1986. Then the real interest rate began to increase, especially because of lower inflation. From 1987 to 1991, real interest rates increased by a total of 6-7 percentage points. When this came to the top of the international recession and fiscal contraction, it went wrong – terribly wrong. Many indebtedness and bankruptcy were created in those years, and finally the banks themselves went to the end. The authorities must be criticised for the failure of economic policy, in full agreement with the Smith Commission. So the question of bank liability. The Commission emphasises the responsibility of the banks for their own conduct. A collective madness developed in the banking industry in the wake of credit liberalisation. Those who say that the authorities are responsible for this, in effect, say that the bank's management was unable to control itself. It must strengthen control and control on the part of the authorities. It has been – and is – agreed. But it is alarming that these cries now come most strongly from the Advancement Party. There is reason to criticise the fact that the authorities did not impose more stringent supervision on banks. It's important. But even tough measures could only have dampened the crisis — not averted. This leads to the last question: Have the authorities managed the crisis correctly? Then it's fruitful to look back, not least at the banking crisis of the 1920s. The Stockholm Administrative Act of 1923 gave the Norwegian Bank and the Ministry of Finance the power to take over failing banks. Then more than 100 banks went bankrupt. Historians have pointed out that the management of authorities probably intensified the crisis at that time. Contrary to this, the 1990s, where the decisions taken by the Stortinget and the Ministry of Finance exercised through the Bank Insurance Fund and the Bank Investment Fund, helped to save the vast majority of banks, either through new capital or through mergers. Many of the former shareholders who had their shares cleared have felt this as an unfair treatment, and the Commission has pointed out that this may be due to the state's approach. But the Commission is crystal clear in its conclusion – that the shareholders are not entitled to compensation. After many years of debate and investigation, this should remain the judgment of history. Those who will still be in doubt about this should take into account the unfortunate adverse effect of creating the impression that the State will go in and rescue the shareholders no matter how the banks operate. The risk of loss by the owner is a necessary reminder for banks to have the most appropriate risk assessment. In the 1980s, the popular lending firm showed that this was necessary. SV believes that the Commission has done a good and thorough job, and we can mainly join its assessments. That is what the majority of the committee has done.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e719	The banking crisis is a historical matter, it is important to learn from it. The Commission has done a comprehensive and impressive job. There may be a lot to say about the past, and it is worth noting that the Commission has given the past crisis management good goals. However, the most important thing is how experience from the banking crisis can help to avoid future banking crises and, if they do occur, how these should be managed. In the light of its analyses, the Commission has also proposed a number of measures and recommendations that can and should be assessed. A large number of Storting doesn't have any reason to manage these proposals. However, some of the Commission’s recommendations may be accompanied by comments. As is often the case in politics, we can also face some conflicts of objectives here. For the Commission, crisis prevention has been seen as the most important, and the Commission has not – and should not – discussed how some recommendations can intervene in other policy areas. An example of this is the Commission's proposal to evaluate the Danish model with tax deductions for losses. The background for the submission is that the Commission of my Losing Rules leads to low depositions in times when the future becomes bright. In the Commission's view, this will mean that for periods of time it is not set off sufficiently for loss. The proposal at the right-hand end was initially settled. However, at the same time, we have put forward an approach to the concept of the tax system after the tax reform. It has been widely agreed that we should be careful to introduce industry-specific tax deductions, because there will be a conflict with the objective of the tax system operating as neutrally as possible between industries. Another area where the Commission’s recommendations may conflict with other objectives has been submitted to soften the ownership delimitation rules for financial institutions. The general rule under the Finance Act of 10 June 1988 is that no one can own more than 10 pst. of the share capital of a bank or other financial institution. The background that we have such rules is, among other things, the desire to prevent strong ownership and thus power concentration in the financial industry. Perhaps an important side-effect of this is that one also prevents so-called domino effects of possible crises in the financial industry. Another area where there are many and difficult considerations is the Commission's proposal that, if the axes are written down by a unilateral decision of the State, bank shareholders must have the right to have their value determined by an independent body. The Commission also proposes that the costs of the valuation process should be borne by the State. This has also many pages. Individual shareholders' interests in the matter and the right to provide services in other areas must be balanced against the potential high costs if a large number of shareholders are to enjoy full rights of the parties in a dispute. Furthermore, there may be a basis for discussing whether accounting and assessments do not provide a good basis for understanding. In my view, this problem has so many unsolved pages that it is true that the government carried out a thorough analysis of this. The basis for such an analysis will be used, among other things. be the Commission’s decision, the work of the Banking Commission and the letter of the Ministerial Advocate of 30 October 1998. Such a procedure could have included many shareholders and could have been the largest and most expensive legal case in Norway, cf. the letter of the attorney of the government. There's every reason to ask the question whether this is right or desirable for society. On the part of Storting, such analyses and assessments should serve as a basis for any conclusions. I want to highlight some points that are widely negotiated and that it is also important to note: Firstly, the main responsibility for preventing future banking crises lies with the Government and Norway Bank. These bodies have access to the regular information that may be important to see the danger signals that make countermeasures necessary. It is also these bodies which have the authority to take decisions or make proposals to the Storting in order to prevent or mitigate a crisis. Secondly, the Commission points out that the responsibility for defence banking within the framework set up at any time by the rules of law rests on the banks themselves. I would also like to underline that. Thirdly, the Commission is busy with the value of creating and preserving clarity on how the legal and political responsibility for following up, and, if necessary, telling us, is distributed among others. The Department, the Credit Authority and Norway Bank. The Commission believes that it is important to organise system responsibilities in such a way that advice and warnings can be produced without regard to whether their content is politically popular. When it comes to crisis management, the Commission stresses that the concerns of the system are more important than the concerns of shareholders. There is no reason to abandon the established policy that shareholders should be the first to bear specific losses. This line also matches the third of the responsibility for resolving the bank crisis that has long been the basis of the banking crisis management system in Norway. In short, this system requires banks to take their own funds — if necessary also their share capital — first. Then, the collective banking insurance system itself becomes operational. The Commission's work has been extensive and thorough. I believe that there is a basis for saying that the Commission's work itself has made an important contribution to our being better equipped in the future to face possible crises in banking.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e755	Like the case rapporteur, Gunnar Schaug, who initially recalled, the banking crisis is now a few years behind schedule, and long before I became Minister of Finance. I therefore do not think it appropriate to comment on the assessment of the review committee and the Committee of the banking crisis and its handling by the authorities. I therefore hesitate to mention briefly the future, i.e. the further follow-up of the case after the Stortingen's examination of the investigation report. I want to mention some themes, and first take the Losing Code. In the opinion of the review commission, the loss regulation gave appropriate rules, and it does not justify claiming that it was this regulation that created the crisis. At the same time, it points out that loss provision rules lead to lower provisions in times when the future becomes bright and that this may mean that there is insufficient provision for losses that will occur in normal and bad times. The Committee has taken note of this and that the Committee of Inquiry proposes to assess the Danish tax-deducted loss provision system. In 1998, the Credit Authority presented a report on the review of the Loss Code. It was concluded that the Norwegian Losing Code did not differ significantly from what is usual internationally. It was proposed not to make any changes to this legislation now, including: due to international work in the field. In the light of the views expressed by the Committee, the Ministry of Finance will consider more closely the Danish scheme, and I believe that the report presented by the Banking Authority is likely to form part of the background material. So a few words about the ownership constraints of financial institution law. The review Commission considers that the existing rules on ownership of financial institutions restrict the possibility of active ownership and suggest that a relaxation of the constraints exists. I think that's especially true of the ten pst. The Committee asks the Government to consider whether there are grounds for change in the light of the review by the Commission and the Banking Commission. The Fourth Banking Commission’s inquiry into financial undertakings is now being consulted. The investigation concerns, inter alia: the owner-restriction rules. Some changes have been proposed, including: an access to ownership up to 30 pst. in relation to so-called strategic alliances. I will consider any changes to the ownership control rules in the context of the follow-up to the Banking Law Commission’s investigation. Then to the supervisory code. The Committee agrees with the review Commission that it is important to create and maintain clarity on the legal and political responsibility to follow up and to notify any danger signals regarding future banking crises. This responsibility is now shared between the Ministry of Finance, the Banking Authority and the Bank of Norway, and I have noted that, in the Committee's view, it should also remain so in the future. The Committee of Inquiry has considered that banking supervision should be developed in the direction of greater activity, for example: with a background to the Danish model, with regular and intensive supervision through inspections etc. as a starting point, and an access for the credit supervision to, inter alia: to lay down individual minimum requirements for the coverage of equity. The Committee asks the Government, in cooperation with the respective bodies, to review current legislation in this area in order to return to the Stortinget with any changes if current legislation does not appear to be sufficient. In recent years’ letters of credit to the Ministry of Finance have stressed that the credit supervision must give priority to so-called local supervision. Furthermore, the credit supervision has access under Section 4 of the Credit Supervision Act to oblige banks to have higher own funds than the statutory minimum requirements. It is not quite clear what changes the Committee may consider. I find it natural, in any case, to obtain the Credit Authority's assessment of today's legislation. So, finally, about the valuation of shares in connection with depreciation. The Examination Commission considers that bank shareholders should have the right to have the value of the shares determined by an independent body if the shares are depreciated by a unilateral decision of the State. The costs of such a valuation process should be borne by the State. The majority of the Committee asks the Government to consider whether there are grounds for setting up a system as proposed by the Commission. The Advocate General stated in a letter that valuation tasks of such a size as they are referred to here should in no case be added to the General Courts. I agree with the Advocate-General that, in the event, a separate independent body of specific economic competence should be set up. I will follow up this proposal and these thoughts in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, which is responsible for judicial and procedural law.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e774	I will also agree with the comments that have been made earlier, with the work of the Smith Commission. It has provided the Stortinget with a very good basis for discussing both the past and the future. I am pleased to hear the Minister of Finance do all he can to ensure that, with the greatest seriousness, the investigation instructions given by the Committee in this context are passed. However, there is reason to conclude that we have not drawn any conclusions, and that through the further investigation it is the Ministry of Finance in cooperation with the institutions involved in the banking and credit sector, which finally has to say whether or not to want to change the rules. On the other hand, it is quite clear that the very good work done by the Smith Commission has been necessary to clear out a whole lot of allegations of malpractice in public administration in the context of the banking crisis. When you have political parties like the Advance Party, with your own ability to make your own story and place yourself in the driver's seat on every occasion and come back and say what we said – and if that's not what you said then, you write the story so that it fits – it's necessary to get facts on the table, and these facts have been given to us by the Smith Commission. There is reason to note that the management of financial and credit policy by authorities over the 1980s raises questions. There is also reason to note that there are justified grounds for asking questions relating to supervisory activities, but there is also reason to stress very strongly that the banks' own behaviour in terms of the desire to maximise market shares may be the main reason why banks were overrun. I say ‘over control’ when you are no longer able to fulfil the obligations you have assumed. What has surprised me, both in the 1980s and in the 1990s, is the emphasis on the valuation of real estate as the basis for loan amounts. This is a value that is not a technological value that is eternal, but a value that is highly dependent on the market. If the market fails, it also fails with regard to the valuation of the pledged collateral for the loan, and then the lender will be left with losses if the bottom falls out of the market. I have been amazed that no more of the security assessments have gone into the current and future ability to pay, both in terms of commercial loans and personal loans. Of course, that would be difficult, but I would think that a combination of mortgages in the value of real estate and an assessment of the ability to pay would provide a better basis for assessing the collateral for the loans you provide than a clean connection to real estate. We've seen that a number of the losses that came were the result of the property falling into a lot of value, but we've also seen that a lot of the profits that are generated are the result of the real estate rising in value. In many ways, this is paper money that is not realised if the ability to pay is up-to-date. In the future, I want the banking and credit system to look more and more at its own way of establishing collateral for the business they operate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e787	The right is pleased that the Smith Commission provides a thorough overview of the development of the banking crisis. But it would have been an advantage if the Commission had also had access to the Workers' Party's R-notes. However, we note that in its conclusions, the Commission criticises both the banks and the authorities. The right hand was too early to propose that the banking crisis be subject to independent scrutiny, and we are also pleased that the report is a good contribution to cleaning up the air, and that we can therefore put the banking crisis behind us. Now it's important that both banks and the Stortinget learn from the mistakes pointed out by the Smith Commission, so that we avoid similar situations in the future. In banks, it is hardly surprising that the Commission highlights as its main single observation that good capital adequacy is central to banking stability. As politicians, we also need to take far more account of the fact that own funds, in a satisfactory quantity and of sufficient quality, are fundamental prerequisites. At the same time, an increased degree of internationalisation has also led to the fact that international markets, and perhaps primarily the EEA bodies, will be far more corrigendum to banking in Norway, together with the framework conditions that national authorities are drawing up. The right-hand side is reserved for the history that there were no foreign buyers to the Credit Fund, Focus or DnB. The background was that the government's legislation was what prevented foreign buyers from buying. The right would also point to the regrettable fact that it was obviously difficult to see alternative sources of capital of the State Bank Insurance Fund when the legislation was used to render foreign sources of capital obsolete and, at the same time, to impose strong restrictions on national sources. The question of the loss provision has been central to the crisis debate. The Smith Commission concludes that the Norwegian legislation largely complies with the accounting requirements of other countries with which it is natural to compare. However, the importance of being observant is the tendency for provisions for future losses to be too small in good times. The solution is probably in one of the same system as in Denmark, which allows banks to set aside funds for future losses with the right to deduct the provision from the tax settlement. In any case, the Right recommends that the Danish tax deduction system be assessed in the follow-up that the Government is required to do in this case, and I perceive the Minister of Finance's comments so that he was ready on that point. As far as the views of the Smith Commission on the future are concerned, it highlights the desire for a clearer division of responsibilities between authorities, i.e.: The Ministry of Finance, the Bank of Norway and the Banking Authority. Experience suggests that there must also be clear boundaries between the responsibility of the management of the bank and the public oversight authorities. The supervisory function shall primarily limit itself to focusing on the consequences of its own operations and on accounting and soundness. This means that the supervisory authorities shall not enter and participate in the operation of the banks which comply with the minimum requirements for lawful banking. In that case, this would clearly be contrary to the allocation of powers and responsibilities. Now, as I have said before, it is time to improve legislation to avoid future crises. It is then impossible to avoid the injustice that the Ministry of Finance and the government hastened away from the small savers the possibility of retaining the right to tax deductions for the loss of the credit fund shares and the focus shares. The right is – and did – disagree with the fact that the small savers would thus lose the right to deduct taxable income for the nullification of the bank shares, as the tax reform would give them from 1 January 1992. However, as has previously been explained on the Right side, we do not find that there is a legal basis for meeting the demand for compensation. The conclusion in the Right is that we take inwards that the Commission does not find that there is a basis for substitution, and that there is an independent and thorough investigation, which has confidence in broad circles, which has fixed this. Moreover, I point out that the Right is with a broad majority to ask the Government to follow up the Smith Commission's report, taking into account the comments made by the Control and Constitutional Committee. I just underline what the Commission has as its main pillar when it looks into the future, namely that the soundness of banks is crucial to preventing future crises. At the same time, the Commission says, as I have pointed out, that the division of responsibilities between the Ministry of Finance, the Bank of Norway and the Banking Authority must be clarified, while at the same time adopting new rules on the procedure against shareholders in the crisis banks.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e804	First, I want to give tribute to the Smith Commission, which has done a comprehensive, thorough and good job, a work that, together with the Munthe selection process in 1992, provides us with a good basis for getting an overview of the causes, scale and consequences of the banking crisis. Crisiss in financial institutions cost society a lot. Therefore, it is important that we understand best how such crises arise, what one can do to prevent them, and to reduce the damage to society. The problem with theorizing these questions in connection with this crisis, i.e. what one could have done and what should have been done, is that one should not have tried it in practice. A post-clock in such a context cannot and will not be possible to verify, and there will be nothing but post-clock. That's why it's important that we try to learn from the arrests that are made in connection with the banking crisis and that happen to our country. In an international context, a lot of work is done on how to reduce the impact of banking crises in financial institutions. The idea that seems to be gaining ground in international context is that it is very important to focus on having a good regulatory framework and a good functioning credit supervision. When I say we have to have a good code, I mean, of course, a law that works. Own funds requirements and clear requirements for loss provisions must be in place. In addition to this, I think that open access to knowledge about the country's finances and about the individual financial institution, the banks' situation, is very important. It is also in some contexts that the consequences of understatement and loss seem to have been underestimated. I think it's now important for us to focus on the future and see what can be done to avoid corresponding crises. In this way, I find the assessments made by the Commission very interesting. They're also in line with the impressions I have of the way an international think about preventing crises. Perhaps the most important single observation they point to is good capital adequacy, which is decisive for the stability of the banking system. The rules for loss cancellation policy must be clear and loss will appear clearly on the table. I also think it is interesting that the Commission points out that attention should be paid to the active ownership, and that the Commission sees the explanation of weak ownership in conjunction with the way in which many banks have operated. These are issues that make sense to debate, without prejudicing conclusions. I have also noticed that the Commission stresses the importance of creating and managing responsibilities, both legally and politically, in relation to the Department, the Credit Authority and Norway Bank, among others. Noregs Bank's role in relation to the department and staging. At the end of Document No. 17 for 1997-98, the Commission states that it is very important that the State should make good progress in good time with regard to the rules on crisis resolution. I think it's right that we now, when we're not in such trouble as the first in the 1990s, use the time to work on some of the questions that the Commission has raised. The Minister of Finance gave the impression in his speech that this will be followed up by the Government, and I feel sure that will be done. Not least, this is necessary in the case of rules on the procedure for writing down bank statements and clearer rules for sharing responsibilities between public bodies involved in the work. Of course, it is important, as the majority in the Committee also say, that banks themselves have a great responsibility to prevent future crises of this kind. I also share the view of the Committee and the Commission that maintaining trust in the financial system is more important than the concern of shareholders. It is also worth noting that there is a close pool of committees, a large majority in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, which join many of the Commission's views. And it is in the setting that the word is taken to mean that many of the views taken by the Commission are evaluated at the time that comes, in order to achieve a system that can minimize, in order to avoid possibly, the corresponding crisis in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e825	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3117]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e839	This Document No The 8 proposal concerns the possibility of setting up non-profit mutual funds. Non-profit mutual funds are funds where shares of the fund's returns are distributed to non-profit institutions serving households. The Committee is in favour of granting such an access to the creation of non-profit mutual funds. It has so far not been possible to set up such funds, because the law has not given access to them. The Committee therefore wants the law to be amended on this point and asks the Ministry to come back with proposals for such a legislative amendment. This is also in line with the last recommendation of the credit supervision, following the first time that the credit supervision was the subject of proceedings on the board of credit regulators, it is doubtful that such an establishment was not in accordance with the applicable legislation. The credit supervision, which has now recommended the possibility of establishing that type of fund in the event of a change in the rules, provides for the opening of access under certain conditions, including: such distribution must not be less than 50 pst. of annual returns. In addition, there is a requirement for additional objectives to be laid down in the statutes and for information on the purpose to be included in the prospectuses of the funds. The credit supervision also points out that the marketing law may require restrictions on the way such funds can be marketed. The Committee also welcomes the creation of ideal funds and assumes that this will have a positive impact on the ability of NPISHs to finance their activities. In the light of this, the Committee would ask the Government to submit proposals to the Storting on legislative changes allowing the establishment of such funds. The proposal has already been sent to the hearing and will be returned to the Stortinget on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e852	Ideal unit trusts in which part of the unit-holder's returns are distributed for ideal purposes have become very popular in other countries. We're not going further than to Sweden until we see that this is the case. This has become an important and stable source of income for non-governmental organisations and a good and easy way for the shareholders to contribute to the non-profit organisations they want. That is why I, as one of the proposers for that document, would like to see it. Eight proposals that form the basis of the Committee's position today, say to me very pleased that a unanimous committee, and therefore probably a unanimous one, joins in what is the intention of the proposal, namely that we should open up access to the creation of non-profit mutual funds in this country as well. But the story is unfortunately long, winding and surprising, and allows me just to spend a few minutes repeating some of the story. It is at least a fact that the application for approval was lodged in the Ministry of Finance for almost a year and a half without the applicants being informed that their letter of application had not been received, or much less heard from the Ministry of Finance if they intended to comply with the application. This led to my being contacted by the Norwegian Cancer Association in September 1998. I then wrote a letter to the Minister of Finance at the beginning of September asking for further progress in the matter, and that they looked positive at it. Also that letter was unanswered in the department, not only for weeks, but for months. I therefore reminded them in the middle of November last year, and the evening post began to take an interest in the matter. Answers were available, as indicated indirectly in the attachments in the cancellation, at the end of November, and incredibly, the answer was not very positive, so there is something that has gone wrong in the Ministry of Finance and in the Government. Why should a government that boasts of being the best friend of NPISHs not view this as a positive measure for which they should be allowed to act? It is not just the Ministry of Finance that has left this case in its innermost secret. The parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party was also contacted, I think it was in February 1998, without any result. It is therefore very gratifying that the Financial Committee today, in a unanimous vote, imposes on the Ministry, as soon as possible, a proposal to legitimise the ideal fund here as well. The Right Party and the Advance Party had wanted the matter to be resolved already today. But with the fact that it has gone out with both the one and the other, we see that it may be beneficial to have the consultation round that is now near to the end, as I understand it, away, and that the Ministry of Finance can then then promote a proposal that I hope will be designed in such a flexible way – and does not differ dramatically from the reality in other countries – that Norwegian mutual funds with this ideal goal will not lose out in competition with the Swedish already established on the market. There are important NPISHs behind the desire for such funds, and it is important that they are designed in such a way that it is not only the most prosperous who sees themselves served with such funds; it would be the danger, I fear, if the proposal of the CRA is based on it all. But the ideal organizations here are, whether it's the Cancer Association, the National Council of the Abstains or Amnesty, which are some of those behind them, want to be able to go out with ideal mutual funds that the man in the street can see for himself, and then it's not certain that the man in the street will think it's very age-old that half of a possible return should go to the ideal organization. So I hope that the Ministry of Finance, after the consultation round, will put in place arrangements that are not significantly different from what our neighbouring country uses, so that this can both contribute to long-term savings for the individual and provide a stable and good source of income for non-profit organisations that are currently struggling to compete significantly with the source of income and that can no longer rely solely on the efforts of those who are part of the organisations. With this recommendation, I hope that the department will comply with Storting's request as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e867	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3117]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e881	The issue is therefore the introduction of binding ex ante commitments in tax matters. It is a pleasure to note that there is broad consensus in the Committee on the implementation of this principle. The matter has been dealt with by the Economic and Social Committee and the legislative proposal has been sent to the hearing on 16 August 1999. It has emerged from the Ministry, and also from the hearings, that there is considerable legislative work ahead of us, so the majority of the Committee has said that we are addressing the national budget in 2000, with a view to promoting legislative proposals in spring 2000. On behalf of the Committee, I propose that document No. 8:39 for 1998-99 is annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e890	First, I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that it is a clear majority who have complied with the honourable Member's proposal to introduce binding prior commitments in tax matters. I think it will have a positive effect on the many people who could think of greater predictability in relation to how their tax case is to be dealt with. There is a great need for such rules. The current practice of non-binding equality management opinions has not been adapted to the needs of users, especially in view of the complexity of tax rules and the possible economic impact on individuals, for example. in the case of misinterpretations and the like. Forecasts have been carried out in our neighbouring countries Sweden, Finland and Denmark, apart from ourselves in the petroleum sector. Experience in our neighbouring countries shows that these schemes work well in relation to their purpose, and there is no reason not to introduce the same thing here at home. For tax payers have a strong and comprehensible need to be able to clarify in advance some of the complex tax effects of the envisaged but not yet implemented. The Economic and Social Committee has made a very comprehensive investigation on several hundred pages, such as: Our proposal has been based on how much of the legal work has also been done. It is therefore a great surprise when we look at the progress plan that the department insists on. We believe that the matter is too slow and that it is unnecessary to make a legislative proposal in the spring of 2000. That is why the Right Party and the Advance Party have made a note of this, because within a very short period of time the Ministry should be able to build on the legislative work done by the Parliamentary Committee – among other things. therefore it has been reduced – and promoted a case for Stortinget. This is an over-mature reform. As I said initially, I am pleased that the bulk of the population has now joined the proposal, but there is some disagreement about progress. But we have to live with that, as the matter has to be resolved and it will be an important contribution to improving the framework and predictability of small and medium-sized enterprises in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e901	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3117]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e915	In this case, the Government proposes to abolish the CO2 tax on civil international aviation because, for example, the levy is introduced. not properly assessed bilateral aviation agreements between Norway and a number of other countries. In the proposition, the government has proposed that the proceeds associated with this charge be allocated to the international and national seat charges. For a long time, there has been a majority in Stortinget that has considered that the seat charge does not contribute to more environmentally friendly behaviour and is therefore more fiscal than environmentally justified. Furthermore, the same majority considered that the seat charge could distort competition for new companies in a start-up phase. When Stortinget took a stand on free competition in Norwegian aviation in its time, it was clearly established that competition would take place on equal terms. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Right, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party, have taken this opportunity to return to the original system of passenger charges, thus proposing to lift the seat charge. Now it is tempting to add that the Progress Party believes that the passenger fee is also unnecessary, but it is a purely budgetary debate, which we will have to take in the next round. The majority have several and different reasons why the levy in this round should be neutral in terms of provenance. And there are different relationships with ESA, with rates and proceeds, which in the future the Committee will probably come back to on several occasions. I take up the proposal of the People's Party, the Right and the Twist Party, but at the same time I warn that we will subsidly support the proposal of the Workers' Party, which is the vote of the Committee. The difference between these two proposals lies in the distribution of charges. The Party of Advances, Right and Cross-Political Elections consider it unreasonable that the proceeds resulting from the loss of CO2 tax should be placed on domestic traffic. In this regard, we have chosen not to take into account the potential conflict that has arisen between Norway and ESA, since the government itself has announced that these are the circumstances they will come back to, among other things. in the context of the revised national budget. But we note that the Workers' Party wants to take this into account through the setting, and that is what we are dealing with. With the exception of SV, the entire Committee has proposed the establishment of a rapid selection to consider the economic competitive conditions of air transport, so that this can be presented to the Stortinge in the context of the 2000 budget. This is necessary because it is important that aviation has predictable framework conditions that allow competition based on the most competitively neutral legislation. On the part of the Progress Party, we have been able to see that the Government continues to work towards increasing the introduction of environmental taxes, including on aviation. In this context, it must be a prerequisite for such work to be internationally based and in line with international agreements. It cannot be right that the Government, after being the world champion of environmental work, creates framework conditions that are highly distorting to Norwegian companies. It is important for the Progress Party to stress that we have been against the introduction of CO2 taxes all the way, precisely because they will distort competition, and because environmental benefits are, after all, somewhat doubtful. There is also reason to point out that there are great opportunities for the Ministry of Finance to misappropriate its assessments relating to the extent of economic refuelling. Therefore, at least these representatives are meeting to clarify this by the Ministry. The Committee addresses this matter only on one part of several notified issues related to Norwegian aviation. The others will be dealt with, inter alia: through a revised national budget, through a separate VAT case and probably also in the context of the 2000 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e938	Siv Jensen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e941	The debate and decision in relation to air charges are marked by a cautious and tried-and-tested use of instruments against a transport system that has been the key to the further development of our country on many routes and a strengthening of a housing pattern most of us want. When, in its time, a majority, including the Workers' Party, imposed a passenger charge on aircraft operating on routes where trains were running, it was at best a symbolic act in relation to trains as an alternative. Then, in the autumn of 1997, there was a seat charge for the change of government – again with additional environmental reasons, a seat charge that could also be financed through tariff and route adjustments throughout Norway. The working party opposed the conversion to a seat fee. We believed that the environmental justification was not maintained, and that this was mainly justified by the need for more money in the state treasury. To date, developments show that a majority in the UK now joins the Workers' Party's assessments in the middle of a budgetary year. In this context, I could make a number that we already see a fundamental breach of the tax and tax settlement that the Right Party and the Advance Party have with the government parties, but when it does now without reduced revenue for the state, we only get to record that the government parties give their acceptance and go into a minority in this case. Problems related to the government’s practice of the special seat charge have called for adjustments several times in the short life of the fee – especially because it has been shown to have unacceptable distortions of competition with which the increase had not been made when it was introduced. This is a problem that creates a background for this urgent matter for the Stortinget. The CO2 tax that we introduced with the background in St.prp. No 54 for 1997-98 on green taxes, has further revealed the problems we face in relation to aviation. The fact that we already have to reverse a CO2 tax on fuel on foreign flights does not only confront airlines with constant changes in framework conditions, but it poses serious doubts about the decision-making basis we have to deal with in Stortinget. When the Workers' Party now receives an impact on the removal of the seat tax and the reintroduction of the passenger fee, we are aware of ESA's objections to distortions of competition – i.e. the crown half the domestic rate – in relation to foreign flights. We note that the Right Party and the Advance Party provide subsidiary support for this. The fact that there is now a broad majority to reduce a rapid sample, where we assume that the aviation industry itself is involved, shows the need for this area's close history. Then we just have to hope that the result will be a regulation that gives the competitiveness to companies belonging to our country and to our region that we assumed in the liberalisation of aviation, namely that competition would take place on equal terms regardless of, for example, where a company is registered.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e956	There are particularly two aspects in today's position: SV is not particularly satisfied, and one is that two environmental taxes are reversed. The aim of environmental taxes is that by changing one's behaviour, one should have the opportunity to reduce the tax burden. That we're reducing one charge here is Storting's responsibility. The second is the international regime that makes it impossible to have CO2 tax on international aviation, as the ministry has provided it. It shows the lack of the Kyoto agreement, namely that international transport was not part of the General Agreement. There is therefore a significant challenge in the future to obtain international transport, including international air transport, under an international charging regime which also includes emissions of CO2. It's important. But I understand that the department here believes that it is contrary to other agreements that have been concluded bilaterally, and I think that is too likely. However, it is very sad that it should not be possible for Norway to take the lead in introducing international CO2 taxes — which can help reduce CO2 emissions — so that others can do the same. I would therefore strongly encourage the Government – as they also say in the proposition – to focus on that work in the future. Fortunately, it's an overall committee that decides that it should have priority. The other thing we are dissatisfied with is that we are adding the charging system from the seat fee to the passenger fee. The seat fee is a fee that the companies themselves have the opportunity to reduce, namely by the number of passengers they fill in the aircraft, the lower the fee you get – this is a seat fee and not a passenger fee. We now go back to a purely fiscal tax that companies can't do anything about; you can't reduce the tax burden by your own behaviour. What I think is sad, because the whole process of thinking behind what was in the Green Tax Commission and the subsequent follow-up of the Stortinge was a transformation of our tax system in the green direction, that even as a consumer, as a business, you have the opportunity to influence the charges. It is the thinking that should shape the Norwegian charging system to a much greater extent. The majority of the population here is reversing an environmental tax in favour of a normal fiscal tax, which is not affected. It's sad. That means that in this round we lose, but at my discretion our charging system, if it is to be sustainable in the next century, will have to be set in the direction of a seat tax – the kind of fee that makes you simply go in the green direction and not in the opposite direction. SV has not otherwise seen the intention to support a fast-working sample, which is likely to have the aim of finding arguments to reduce the overall level of aviation charges. It lies between the lines that that is what is meant by this sample, and I see no purpose for SV to support it. On behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left, I take up proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e967	The representative of Djupedal has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e970	The majority of the committee therefore proposes to wind up a very important environmental tax in principle and replace it with an air passenger charge that does not provide the same incentive for environmental improvements, so I join the representative of Djupedal's sadness here. We believe it is important to keep the fare to stimulate the airlines to fill the planes, so that they don't run on half-empty aircraft, with the huge resource release it involves. It is now claimed, in the light of the experience we have had this year, that the seat charge is not encouraging the environment. Then I dare remember that there have been huge changes in aviation since New Year's. Firstly, we have gained free competition, then Gardermoen has opened up, and the fact that the companies now operate what in classical-economic theory is called ‘cut-throat competition’ cannot be taken as evidence that the seat fee has not worked. The Government will now work to bring the bilateral aviation agreements into line with the objective of having a CO2 tax also on international aviation. It's not right, as the representative Jensen said, that we want to be the world champion in environmental work. We want to be a propellant in the environmental work. The minority in the Committee agrees that a rapid selection is being set up to look at the economic conditions of competition, so that we can clarify whether or not these claims we have received are correct. – The representative Djupedal has taken up the minority proposal, so I don't have to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e981	The rapporteur had in his speech a thorough review of the whole matter and the proposal on which the Right is also included, but there are some things I would like to comment on further. The government recommended the treatment of St.prp. No 54 for 1997-98, Green taxes, to introduce CO2 taxes on aviation, and it is clear from this proposition that this was not contrary to international agreements. The right joined this proposal. What emerges from the proposition we have to deal with today is that the Government did not assess the relationship with the bilateral agreements Norway has with a number of other countries. It could not have been unknown to the Government that such agreements had been concluded, which is why there is evidence of a very weak procedure. The proposal refers to the fact that the issue of the relationship of environmental taxes with the bilateral air transport agreements was raised without taking this into account. I think that's very amazing. In the letters of consultation of the Directorate for Customs and Fees, which were sent as a similar letter to the Ministry of Finance, SAS strongly opposes the introduction of these charges. They ask that the proposal for regulations be withdrawn, but that it be re-examined, as there are clear facts that indicate that this is contrary to the bilateral agreements. The question to the Council of State will then be: is it not taken into account at all in the hearing opinions? Had the advice given by SAS been followed in their letter of consultation, where they fully demonstrate that the introduction of the CO2 tax – at least for international aviation – is contrary to agreements concluded, it should have reacted at a much earlier date. It appears that the Ministry has been made aware of this situation in several of the hearing opinions. What amazes me a little bit is that the department has not acted earlier in a matter like this. It is known to Stortinget that the Right has always been in principle against imposing both a passenger fee and a seat fee. However, this is the case now, we believe that of two downstairs it is going back to the passenger fee, which is being made nominally neutral, the only possible solution in this round. But we want to recommend, and we agree, that a sample is now being set up to review competition considerations, both internationally and nationally. Now the Committee has not been very careful about what should really be in the mandate itself, but it must be an important element to highlight the competitive conditions, possibly distortions of competition, between the actors, and the overall level of taxes and charges for aviation, also compared to other transport activities. This should then be done in accordance with the applicable rules of the game, which international agreements and conventions impose on Norway and the industry. We have also requested that the industry be included in such a sample. It is clear from the examination of this proposition and from the examination of the proposal on green taxes that aviation charges are both comprehensive and complex, not least in terms of the extent and nature of international agreements and bilateral agreements. However, as far as developments in this sample are concerned, it should also be included and looked into whether it is possible to convert the passenger charge into an environmental tax. I also think you should look at what Sweden and Denmark have done in this regard. Norway should be in line with the other Scandinavian countries in terms of air taxation and taxation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e994	First, I will answer the direct question I received from the representative Kjellaug Nakkim. Of course, the hearing opinions received are taken into account. However, consultation opinions often break down, so it is not possible to take into account everyone or to comply with all the objections that have to arise. I don't think there's any reason to deny that the procedure we now took, if I can call it that, was not good enough, when the conflict with a large number of international aviation agreements was not detected in time. So a little bit about what this really is about: The air transport results in greater emissions of CO2 per. passenger kilometres other than most other modes of transport. Until 1 January 1999, aviation has been the only transport sector which has been completely exempted from the CO2 tax in Norway. Aviation has grown sharply over several decades. From 1990 to 1997, the average annual growth rate was over 6 pst. I refer to last year's consideration of the proposals for new green taxes. A broad majority of the Stortinget supported the Government’s proposal to extend the CO2 tax to aviation, freight transport in domestic shipping and the supply chain. In this context, the fare was reduced so that the overall burden on aviation did not increase. The purpose of the Government’s proposal to extend the CO2 tax was that this was a step on the way to meeting the Kyoto commitments and providing Norway with a more cost-effective climate policy. Unfortunately, the CO2 tax on foreign aviation has subsequently been found to conflict with bilateral aviation agreements concluded by Norway with a number of countries. We therefore have no choice but to remove the CO2 tax on foreign aviation. As a leading country and a driving force in climate policy, I still believe that Norway should pursue an active policy to achieve international acceptance for action, including environmental taxes on aviation. The Government has therefore announced that Norway will work actively in ICAO to reach international agreement on amendments to the Code etc. in order to be able to take effective measures in relation to emissions from aviation. At the same time, agreements with other countries should not prevent national measures from being implemented. The conditions for exemption from international aviation are a living thing from the past, as environmental problems were less focused than they are today. We have therefore warned that we should work actively to remove any formal bonds that would prevent the air transport from being subject to a CO2 charge. I believe that a CO2 tax such as Stortinget decided last summer is a basically correct environmental tax. Among other things, there is a clear link between the use of aviation fuel and CO2 emissions. Braathen’s ASA has claimed that the CO2 tax leads to distortions of competition and environmental disadvantages by the airlines operating with economic refuelling, i.e. aeroplanes fill large quantities of fuel abroad used on routes in Norway. I will not deny that economic refuelling can occur. On the other hand, the Working Document of the Transport Economic Institute does not provide any evidence that Braathen’s main competitor, SAS, uses economic refuelling to a large extent today. There are, after all, relatively few aircraft operating both domestic and foreign routes. Moreover, the savings from economic refuelling appear to be small compared to other conditions affecting the conditions of competition in aviation. I therefore doubt that economic refuelling can have a significant impact on the competitive environment or on the total fuel consumption in aviation. I have noticed that a large majority in the UK have asked the Government to set up a rapid selection to look at the economic competitive conditions in aviation. This will be followed up by the Government towards the State budget for 2000. In this respect, I would like to point out that the Government is working to change the VAT legislation, so that the legislation should not be detrimental to airlines which have their main facilities and activities in Norway. I believe that this is primarily the tax and tax legislation that can give rise to distortions of competition for Norwegian companies, rather than the CO2 tax and the airline tax. The government has proposed that the proceeds of the CO2 tax be recovered by increasing the fare on the aircraft. I noticed that a majority at Stortinget went in to reintroduce a passenger fee from 1 June 1999. I would like to insist that the fare has better environmental characteristics than the passenger fee. By charging all aircraft seats, it becomes relatively more expensive for airlines to maintain low-coated routes. It will also be more profitable for companies to use smaller aircraft on such routes. In this way, the fee will motivate companies to reduce the size of the aircraft and reduce the number of scheduled flights. Such changes would be beneficial for the environment. The strong growth in the number of regular departures in the autumn of 1998 is due, inter alia, to: the opening of the Gardermoen, and not that we have had a seat charge instead of a passenger fee. I register that a majority of the financial committee supports the proposal to abolish the CO2 tax on foreign aviation and to recover the lost revenue from other charges to aviation. I am pleased with this. I am also pleased that the Stortinget has not mixed the other aviation framework conditions into this case and that a rapid selection will look into the economic competitive conditions of aviation. As previously announced by the Government, VAT legislation in the first row should be amended to avoid distortions of competition. However, the sample to be reduced will shed light on economic competition on a broader basis than this. The Government will present a statement to the Government on this matter in relation to the State budget for 2000. At the same time, it is important to focus on the environmental problems caused by aviation, both nationally and internationally. I therefore think it is unfortunate that the fare is replaced by a passenger fee. The Government will also actively work internationally for international aviation to be subject to instruments to limit greenhouse gas emissions. At the same time, we must avoid agreements that prevent countries from taking action on their own. Therefore, the Government will also work to bring the bilateral aviation agreements into line with the objective of also imposing a CO2 tax on international aviation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1022	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1025	It is the conclusion of the Council of State that makes me feel the need to take a line, namely to work actively internationally to bring international agreements into line with Norwegian positions related to the CO2 tax. It is possible that the Minister of Finance is not the appropriate Council of State to be able to answer the question precisely, but let me nevertheless allow me to ask what active measures the Government intends to take, what organisations other than the International Civil Aviation Organisation are it supposed to be active in, and also to what extent it is likely in the foreseeable future to be able to bring about an international tax regime for transport. So this was to be part of the Kyoto Protocol and the Kyoto Agreement, but it is not part of it. It's been followed up later in Buenos Aires, where neither was such an initiative taken. Is there any reason to believe that new initiatives will be taken? And in that case, will the Norwegian Government take its own initiative to ensure that such fees come on the international agenda? The second part relates to bilateral agreements, where the Council of State commends its wish to bring them into line with Norwegian positions. But is there realism in it? Is that likely? Has the Council received a signal that other nations are willing to look at the kind of taxation that we think is right? I share the Council's assessment of the CO2 tax 100 pst. Unfortunately, obviously the majority of people do not. But is this realism in it? It's also my question to the Council of State, if he could make an assessment of it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1035	It is probably true that in practice there will be other government councils that have to follow up more than me the Government's goal of trying to bring international agreements into line with the intentions of the Government to have a more environmentally friendly policy also in relation to aviation. The representative Djupedal asked if there is realism in such views. It's hard to say. Realism in the sense that we've received clear signals, it's not, because we don't yet. But there is no doubt that environmental concerns are becoming more and more important internationally. The Kyoto agreement gives commitments not only to Norway, but to all countries participating in the Kyoto negotiations, and they must be followed up. I want to hope and have great faith that you will see the futility of the CO2 emissions from high up planes that may be more environmentally damaging than other CO2 emissions and that aviation will have to be subject to the same restrictions as for other CO2 emissions. So I'm optimistic considering that it might be possible to get a solution. But when it comes to the question of having received positive signals so far, we have nothing concrete there. However, it will not prevent the Government from following up and taking initiatives internationally where it is appropriate to bring about a change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1042	What is the majority’s reason for going away from a seat charge and going over to a passenger charge is to get — if possible — better competition in the air traffic system. We are of the clear opinion that the system we have today with seat tax works in the opposite direction and for that reason also leads to a lower environmental use of the aircraft. So the Council's reality description is that the seat charge affects the company's willingness to use better sized aircraft and the company's willingness to adapt better to cost and environmental right behaviour. Does the Council have evidence for its claims that the seat charge has actually worked in such a context?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1051	The representative Dalheim asked if I have evidence for my claims that the fare for the aircraft has worked as intended. I cannot see that I have made such a claim, so I cannot have any evidence for anything I have not said. But I have faith that when there's something more normal than we've had in the short time since this fee was introduced, it's going to work, because it's likely that the companies are earning to adapt the frequency of the route and also the size of the flight to the economy. And when it's profitable to adjust the frequency and flight size in the sense that you don't fly more often than necessary and not with larger planes than necessary, it will reduce the emission of CO2. So this would eventually work as intended, I think, if you had maintained the seat tax and had not replaced it with a passenger fee. When it has not worked so far, I think – as was said in a previous post – that it may be due to several things: first, that it has been opened up to greater competition, and then that one has recently opened the main airport at the Gardermoen. In my opinion, this is a transitional period, and I believe that a different development could be seen gradually if the seat fee had been maintained. We now have no experience because a majority in Stortinget wants to wind up this fee and replace it with the old passenger fee, which, in my opinion, does not have the same environmental incentive as the seat fee we have now had for half a year and a half.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1056	Firstly, I would like to say that it is gratifying that the Council of State underlines the importance of changing the legislation relating to VAT, for aviation. There is evidence that perhaps several teams have begun to reach quite a consensus on this issue. But initially, the Council of State spent a lot of time talking about the Government's desire to pursue an active environmental policy, and it also underlined the Government's desire for national action. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: Does ‘national action’ mean that the Government has ambitions to introduce new national taxes that, for some reason, will be able to be environmentally justified? If that is the Government's intention, do you have the whole idea of putting in place in relation to neutrality of competition, so that you don't once again face a situation that creates distortions of competition as a result of government-made taxes or rules?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1065	That question can be answered briefly: there is currently no concrete idea of using new measures or introducing new taxes, as Siv Jensen now asked. With regard to the charges that have now been imposed, Siv Jensen has had the distortion of competition that Siv Jensen claims – I hear it is claimed – I think, as I explained in my post, that there may be other things that have affected competition to a greater extent than the fact that a passenger fee was transferred from one and a half years ago to a seat fee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1070	I kept not saying that, but I think I'll say it anyway: I'm glad it's not the finance minister who controls the aviation industry, because with the lack of realism in the assessment of the industry's way of operating that the finance minister has now expressed, I'm glad that it's not the finance minister who puts all the framework conditions at least. Because the belief that companies can just as well take flights out of a stable where they are standing, and – in fact – adapt size to departures and capacity from one season to another, is completely unrealistic. Moreover, we lack the perspective that the fact that some overcapacity is maintained, as it is called, also has something to do with the consumer. How would families be asked if you had not had access to purchase discount tickets? And with the setup we now have, the consumer's ability to buy cheap travel is better than ever. It may not be entirely indisputable for a Minister of Finance to be concerned with the level of costs, even from the consumer's point of view. However, my question is more related to the very alarming statement made by the Minister of Finance, namely that he looks optimistically at the work being done to make international agreements in this area effective. It has not even been implemented in its own government for this view, because the air transport agreements have not been amended. The ratio is now that the Ministry of Finance has opposed agreements concluded by other departments, but approved by the Government and approved by the Stortinget. And these agreements have not been implemented. Nor has the Government been able to get through any of the negotiations that have been conducted so far, so my question is: What has happened to the Minister of Finance that he has now become so optimistic in the belief that he will be able to get through where others have not received international results in these areas? Finally, I would like to point out that the majority of the Committee on Finance in the vote on page 4 has emphasised that the report to be made by the Committee on Inquiry must be based on ‘the rules and guidelines imposed on Norway and the aviation industry by international agreements and conventions’. This means that there are existing international agreements and conventions underpinning them, and not hopes of being able to change them.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1082	The approx. 80 international aviation agreements that we discovered are in conflict with the CO2 tax introduced half a year ago have been concluded over a very long period – I think the oldest agreements are from the 1920s to the 1930s until the last in the 1990s. These agreements have been concluded for a very different time, as no environmental concerns were raised. My reason for being more optimistic now is that now you think about the environment, everyone has become more and more concerned about the environment, and we realize that we can't continue on the glitch we've been getting into. For this reason, I believe that it must gradually be possible to make an impression that aviation must also be subject to the same CO2 charges that the combustion of fossil fuels is otherwise subject to. It is in any case the Government's intention to take up in international forums where appropriate, whether or not aviation is now to be subject to the same conditions as other transports have been subject for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1092	I understand the Minister of Finance's answer, but it cannot be that the government began to think about the environment when it suddenly needed money. Because that's what the Minister of Finance is saying. The government has been sitting for almost two years, and it did not, of course, begin to think about the environment just when it needed it to balance the budget? So to my first question: if it is that the government has been thinking about the environment all the time, why hasn't it taken up a renegotiation of the existing aviation agreements in the next two years it has been sitting? Very familiar isn't it taken up. Why not? So my second question: if the government now looks so optimistic about the possibility of international agreements, is it because it is believed that the world has begun to think as the Ministry of Finance thinks after the Kyoto negotiations? That's what I was trying to do there, too. What is the result of the Council of State's assessment that the international climate has suddenly changed? This has been tried many times, but you have not succeeded. It's simply because – I have to add it – there's a lot of ways to think about the environment. It's e.g. those who believe that it is what comes out of the aeroplanes, which is the most important, not what you put into the fuel side, so that it is possible to set requirements on the power and emissions of the engine, and not on the fuel, whatever comes out. So there's a lot of ways to do this. The Minister of Finance has made one effort to do so, but there are several ways of doing this that are equally good, perhaps even better, in the environmental sense.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1101	In terms of the ratio of what gets inserted to what comes out of an engine in terms of CO2, it's a very close relationship. Indeed, it is not possible to clean up CO2 emissions using the technology, as opposed to other types of pollution that can be addressed. So Foss' claim is that we only started thinking about the environment when we needed money. But that's a completely meaningless claim. What happened during the conversion was more or less a proceeds neutral scheme, where within the proceeds they had, a passenger fee was added to a seat charge. So that wasn't the need for money, but it was wanted to be able to influence the way you react and act in the airlines, which justified the conversion. Then ask Per-Kristian Foss why we have not taken up these for a renegotiation of about 1 1⁄2 years. 80 air transport agreements. I will answer it honestly: the undersigned only recently became aware of the relevant agreements. When we realized that, we also made a proposal to Stortinget that we would unfortunately have to withdraw from the CO2 taxes imposed on the international routes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1110	So the line change is over. – Does Per-Kristian Foss want the word for post?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1114	President! I want the word to clarify a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1121	I'm sure there's a way to combine this with an article.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1124	It lengthens the time, but I can do it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1131	The next speaker is Øystein Djupedal, then Per-Kristian Foss.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1134	It was the representative Foss' tirader who made me speak, because it surprises me that the Right has such an approach to the issue of environmental taxes. The reason why international transport has so far failed to become part of the international tax regime or the Kyoto Protocol is that it has not been possible to find a sensible way to allocate emissions. When an aeroplane goes between two countries, how do you allocate the emissions within the allowances-based system of which the Kyoto agreement is part? So that's where you have national quotas to meet. Thus, in the case of international transport, including international aviation, it has not been possible to adapt the type of thinking contained in the Kyoto Agreement. But the Right has always wanted environmental taxes. That's why I'm very surprised that Per-Kristian Foss chooses to go so high on the track on such an important question. For Per-Kristian Foss – like most – will see that we will have a sustainable charging system, it must also include international aviation, such as international transport in general. So I could imagine if what we're seeing here is a line break from Per-Christian Foss and Right. Doesn't Per-Kristian Foss think it's a goal that we should try to set up a charging regime for international air transport? It could be the Per-Kristian Foss challenge, and I know he'll have the word after me.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1141	Thanks for the opportunity to use a little more speaking time, so I also have the opportunity to answer the last question. The representative Djupedal may not have been present in the room. My point is not that I disagree with the fact that we need international agreements to combat CO2 emissions, but my point is that I think the Minister of Finance is acting unnecessarily lightly in his description of the opportunity to do so. We know that in the field of aviation and shipping, it has been very difficult to achieve international agreements between countries. Both the fact that aviation and shipping have more concentration in some countries than in other countries and the fact that border crossings are difficult has been part of the reasons why it has been difficult. To put it correctly, I believe that the Minister of Finance is seriously underestimating the possibilities for doing so. I have to say it even clearer: I am surprised that a government is actually promoting a tax proposal from a department that is contrary to agreements concluded by an overall government. I have, in fact, had it a little naive – perhaps simpler to say – perception that governments always acted as governments, that the budget was promoted by a single government and not by a department. But now we're recording that one hand doesn't know what the other hand is doing. I don't think that's the best starting point. Then I think the Minister of Finance's statements are a violation of the work that has been done by other ministers to reach such agreements. Because if it's so simple for the State Council Restad, why hasn't that been done by the State Council? Because there has not been a dramatic breakthrough in international environmental thinking from last summer to this spring, nor has it been known to me that other changes have taken place internationally, which should now mean that this is all of a sudden very easy to achieve. Finally, my question where I think the Minister of Finance was injured to give a wrong information, and it concerns the so-called Proven Neutrality: Yes, it was Proven Neutral between the seat and the passenger, but it was not Proven Neutral for the Government, because you got more money in the conversion. It's proveny, not Proven Neutrality. So to put it like that, the accounts show that you've gotten more money by taking it on the seat than taking it on the passenger.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1158	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3117]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1172	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1181	I guess it's not exactly everyday food that a unanimous committee agrees to increase the cost framework of a project by several hundred million dollars, and that without reflecting on or asking questions about the need and priorities. When it happens in this case, of course, it is because everyone is very concerned that the new Rikshospital now needs to be completed as quickly as possible. Unfortunately, only two months have passed since the Ministry made its proposal, and after the committee procedure, information on additional cost estimates has been obtained. The new exceedances are equivalent to over 50 pst in the media. of previously estimated exceedances. This shows that the Ministry may not have kept up to date on developments. The Labour Party assumes that the Council of State will come back with a full statement on this in the revised national budget. Now that I'm going to go on in my post, it's based on the information we put in when the proposition was discussed in the committee. The proposition shows that the expected final cost would be 5,066 million. kr per. 15 October 1998. This leads to a cost increase of 590 million. kr in relation to the price adjusted frame per year. the same date. Furthermore, it appears that some of the 590 million have already been contracted and that the remaining contracting has to be carried out within a short time to avoid further delays in the construction work. On this basis, the Ministry has requested the consent of Stortingen to extend the cost framework before any final proposals for funding are promoted and before external quality control has been completed and dealt with. It must now be an overall objective for all to contribute to the implementation of the main relocation as foreseen. Progress must then be kept to ensure that testing and cooperation with other hospitals in the region on the treatment of patients can be carried out as planned. An additional deferral, according to the Ministry, will lead to complications and cost increases both in the construction project and in the treatment of patients. On this basis, the Committee has been committed to contributing to as rapid a process as possible. However, when the Committee on this matter has put forward a unanimous and relatively brief position in spite of the large economic and responsible dimension of the matter, it is not only because the matter is urgent but because the Stortinge will have the opportunity to discuss the matter in its entirety on later occasions. Firstly, the Ministry will return to the Grand Duchy in the context of the 1999 revised national budget, proposing a new allocation requirement for the current year and an estimated need for the years 2000 and 2001. Secondly, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee is already in the Committee of the National Audit Office's investigations into the follow-up of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health to the health policy prerequisites for the construction of the New Rikshospital. Document No 3:11 for 1997-98. This matter lies within the Committee pending the submission by the Riksrevision of a report on the review of equipment acquisitions. By letter of 5 March 1999 to the Control and Constitutional Committee, the Riksrevision confirms that it is in the process of concluding a report on equipment acquisitions, with particular emphasis on State Building Management of the Interface between Construction and Medical Technology. Furthermore, the Riksrevision will deal with project management and management of deviations and changes to the project. These issues have also been dealt with in the past by the Control and Constitutional Committee. In its report, the National Audit Office will consider these issues as explanatory factors for the exceedances of the project. The National Audit Office’s report will also contain a separate section on any breaches of the conditions for the extension decision. The report was submitted to the Stortinget in the autumn of 1999. As will be seen in the proposal, the Ministry also wishes to carry out a separate, independent and comprehensive review of the entire project and wishes to come back with proposals for its own allocation for this work in the context of the revised national budget. The majority of the Committee, with the exception of the members of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, has not taken a position on this matter but has pointed out that it is very unusual for the Government to ask for such a mandate with its own allocation from the Grand Duchy. The majority indicate that the Riksrevision is going through the entire case complex. On this basis, the majority of the Committee has found it natural that the department reconsiders the need for its own review. In view of the need for prompt treatment of the extension of the cost framework, the Ministry has, of course, not presented a complete analysis of the causal relationship and responsibility for the exceedances. However, the Ministry points to the following important factors: undervalued costs, inadequate cost management, several extensions of the project along the way, including the project. expanded by 2900 m2 – an unbiased and non-compensated form of work for real price rises due to the pressure of the construction market. The proposal also shows that the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs of the revised national budget will make proposals for additional 30 million. kr in addition to the above 590 mill. kr. This shall cover additional costs related to the necessary building modifications, communication systems, etc., necessary to put the Rikshospital into operation. In order to enable the project to be continued as planned, it is necessary, according to the Ministry, to extend the cost framework by the estimated additional costs, as adjusted by price per year. in July 1999 is 684 million. kr. In addition, according to the Ministry, it is necessary to set aside a separate reserve, because uncertainty is still linked to the calculation of the total final cost. The Committee has taken note of this and is pleased that the Ministry will carry out a quality control and analysis of costs and uncertainties, which will form the basis for a concrete proposal on the reserve amount in the revised national budget. The Committee has no comments on the assumption that the amount of the reserve is available in accordance with guidelines laid down by the Ministry. As the opinion shows, the majority of the Committee has not found it appropriate to consider the responsibilities of this matter. In my view, there is no basis for drawing any bastant conclusions on this at this stage. The fact that costs have sometimes been estimated on a failing basis seems quite clear. Where responsibility for this and other matters is to be placed, this may not also be done on a failed basis. Then, as far as possible, we need to have an overview of the actual conditions. If not, we can't do anyone a big wrong. The National Audit Office will provide us with the basis we need when that time comes. These studies may also provide a certain basis for assessing the impact the case should have on the future role of State Building. I also point out that the future organisation of State Building is currently under assessment both by State Building itself and by the Ministry. The Ministry's assessment will be promoted for Stortinget as its own case. In my view, we will also need, in the future, a separate body capable of caring for the role and responsibilities of the state as a builder. That is why I am pleased that it is only the Progress Party that will not await the assessments of the National Audit Office and the Ministry before drawing conclusions. Only the Progress Party considers it appropriate to draw conclusions already now, both in terms of responsibilities and the future role of State Building. The fact that the lot may need to refer to previous comments is understandable, but when, among other things: – on the basis that we have today – it is claimed that Stortinget itself has to assume a substantial part of the responsibility for the excess costs, in my opinion, one goes too far. The time has not come to draw such a conclusion, which also means that some may be deprived of responsibility. In addition, it will also be that the Storting by assuming responsibility, anonymising and disseminating responsibility in an unfortunate way. Furthermore, the Progress Party claims that State Building has taken on an unqualified building project. Also that's a dry claim. Firstly, State Buildings are established to take care of the role of the State in such cases and are therefore entrusted with responsibility. Secondly, there is every reason to ask who might have better skills to run a project of such a dimension. It's not exactly about some ordinary single dwelling, but it's a very special construction complex of great difficulty. Business examples include: The oil industry clearly shows that there may also be failures in planning and cost management elsewhere — even in the private sector. However, as mentioned above, we will have ample opportunity to come back to this, both in the examination of the National Audit Office's investigations and in the future role and organisation of the State Building case.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1217	The rapporteur had such a thorough report that it would only be to sprinkle sand on for the person who comes after, as the rapporteur also said, we have a unanimous committee position. We agree on the additional appropriations, and we believe that the Stortinget also takes responsibility. That is what is contained in the comments of the Progress Party. It is very important now for the Progress Party to complete the Rikshospital in order to put it into use. It's important that it is completed very quickly. That is why the Advance Party is in favour of the allocation. However, when the Progress Party in the comments tries to ‘correct’ state buildings for poor cost calculation and inadequate design, it is also confirmed by what the case rapporteur said. It's a criticism of state buildings that are already there, and the fact that we're the only party that, at this point in time, wants to give signals in that direction, shouldn't be so strange. There's another thing about this. When we point to the role of State Building in the case in question, it is also because the other projects in which State Building has been involved can show similar results. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will be voting in favour of the allocation because we know, as the rapporteur said, that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has the Riksrevision report on the project for consideration, and that the Committee is unanimous in its view that this should be dealt with and dealt with in its own way. This also applies to State Building. As the rapporteur said, there is an assessment of State Building's organisation, so that the Progress Party has its own comment on this point, I don't think that is so alarming. The reasons for the exceedances are a little complicated. That's what the Progress Party says. We have small assumptions to assess whether the building engineering solutions desired here are necessary. At least I don't have any prerequisites for commenting on it. But what we know is that the cost excesses that have occurred have come, among other things. because of redesign, deferred completion and price increase. Furthermore, there are exceedances due to area increases and increased standard. When we're talking about this area increase, that's exactly what the Progress Party refers to in its comments that Alvheim and Ytterhorn in 1992 were very skeptical of what was presented. We've kind of confirmed that, because the area is widened considerably. It's not to put the Advance Party in a special light, nor to shout: what did we say! It's just a confirmation that the scepticism that we founded at that time has turned on. We weren't alone about it that time either. But it is clear that we agree on the allocation in the hope that the Rikshospital will be completed as soon as possible, and rather we will have to take the big debate on responsibilities etc. later. But when the case rapporteur spends so much time on the comments of the Progress Party, where we point to the liability with a few lines, I think it is indirect discharge. It is clear that the responsibility is ultimately in Stortinget, and that we cannot talk about who has shown responsibility and who has not shown responsibility, I think at least that discharge is a discharge.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1239	The case rapporteur, Gunnar Breimo, has made a full statement on this matter. I agree with the statement and the point of view he made, and will only pay attention to a relatively brief supplementary remark. The proposed extension of the New Rikshospital cost framework, despite its significant dimensions, is a necessary step to ensure the progress of the project and to prevent further complications with subsequent cost increases. The reasons for the increased costs are explained in the proposition. The same applies also to the continued uncertainty associated with implementation in the future. This is a matter that has also been discussed by others, and to which we in Stortinget are going to come back at a later stage, when the matter has been dealt with more thoroughly and discussed. However, there is no need to hide the fact that developments in this case raise many questions, to which there will be a need to get answers. We are therefore pleased that the Government also sees the need for an independent and comprehensive review of the New Rikshospital project. It is possible, as a majority of the Committee argues, that it is very unusual for the Government to request such a mandate with an allocation from the Grand Duchy. To this is to say that if it were unusual, it would nevertheless bear witness to accountability when the government itself wants to carry out a comprehensive and independent investigation. This just underlines the will, I think, to raise all the important facts and get them on the table, not least so that we can learn from the mistakes that have been made. However, we are not going to take up the discussion about this today. Now is the time to ensure progress in order not to cause even greater damage to the case. The Committee's attitude to agree to the extension of the New Rikshospital cost framework is therefore also unanimous. In addition to this, I would just like to refer to the comments, which express in a complementary way the view of the Committee and the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1250	What should a person really say to this matter? The size has no choice but to grant what is needed to complete the Rikshospitalet. This is a new example of what appears to be some people around the system who live and act in confidence that forgiveness is easier to obtain than permission, especially when it comes to government money. There is no doubt that the Rikshospital in people's consciousness is perceived as a scandalous project. At this point, however, it is impossible for us to place responsibility, it has to endure until the Riksrevision has gone through all aspects of the project. Only then can we have a complete debate on all aspects of the timing and cost increase, which we do not yet have a full overview of. The case rapporteur, Gunnar Breimo, summed up in a good way what a unanimous committee has said and done in this matter, and he stressed that the majority will not now draw conclusions on State-building due to the assessment of the state-building organisation currently under way. However, I cannot simply sign the assessment made by the rapporteur in relation to Stadsbygg's handling of the Rikshospitale and the comparison with other major construction projects that had come out of cost control. The fact that the Right does not support the comments in one direction or another in the case of State Building means that we will wait until the Riksaudition report is available, and neither will we express sympathy, support or resistance to the role of State Building in this matter. It's said that you learn from your mistakes. From the story of the Rikshospitalet, there must be a lot of lessons to learn. But first of all, we need to ensure that this hospital is completed and operational, so we will have to take the dishes when we get a full overview of all aspects of this matter. To Ola T. Lånker's posts and to the Government's proposal for an independent review, the majority have said that we find it natural to wait until the Riksrevision report is available. It will be the right time to assess whether further investigations are necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1263	St. Prop. No 37 for 1998-99 contains, as is known, proposals to extend the cost framework for the New Rikshospital, and most of the content of the proposal explains why the cost framework is proposed to be extended. There is also a need for reserves to cover outstanding work in the total project, without specifying and including concrete reserve amounts in the cost framework. The Ministry of Labour and Administration wanted to carry out a quality assurance of the external assistance cost estimates and, in this context, come back in the context of the revised national budget with a concrete proposal for a reserve amount and, if necessary, proposals for further extension of the cost framework if necessary. The proposal further announced the desire to carry out an independent and comprehensive review of the New Rikshospital project and that the Ministry will also come back to this in the context of the revised national budget. After the presentation of St. Prop. No 37 for Stortinget, an accident occurred on 23 February this year in the quay of the new Rikshospital. This accident resulted in a delay in completion of the main project and additional costs incurred. The crash is by letter informed of this accident, that the new date for completion is 1 June instead of 31 March, and that the ministry will return to the costs in the light of the accident related to the revised national budget. I would like to say a little bit about the present proposal to extend the cost framework and the background for this extension. Aspects that will be discussed in the context of the revised national budget, I do not comment now. The main project New Rikshospital was to be entrusted to users in October 1998, but delays resulted in the completion being postponed until 31 March 1999. The size was informed about this at St. pp. No 1 for 1998-99 by the Ministry of Labour and Administration. At the same time, the size was announced that the delays would lead to additional costs, that higher costs were incurred in the project than previously calculated, and that the Ministry found it necessary to review the overall cost situation in order to calculate how much the cost framework needed to be increased. It was stated that the Ministry would return to the Stortinget with proposals to extend the cost framework for the project in the context of the 1999 revised national budget. By letter of 3 December 1998, the Stortinget announced that the Government would promote its own proposal with proposals to extend the cost framework because of the amount involved. The proposition, which we have to deal with today, was presented to Stortinget on 18 February, in which a new cost framework is proposed at 5 160 million. kr, adjusted per. ==References== The proposal provides an explanation of the reasons for the increase in costs. I'm not going to spend a lot of time repeating these here, and at least I'm not going to blame per. Today – it is too early, as others from this pulpit have also said. However, I would mention that adopted extensions in the course of the project have been underestimated and that the extensions have resulted in simultaneous programming, design and construction that have worked cost-effectively. It has also been necessary to take account of medical-technical developments during the project period. Furthermore, changes have been made to parking facilities, including: in view of the uncertainty of collective care solutions to the hospital, increased costs. The delays that led to the postponement of completion from October 1998 to March 1999 also entail increased costs in themselves. I am pleased that the Committee advises Stortinget to extend the cost framework in accordance with the proposed proposal. I have personally visited the new Rikshospital, and I can assure the Storting that this is a hospital of the highest quality, where the smallest detail seems thoughtful. I am, also based on my professional background, impressed and proud to soon be able to leave this hospital to the users. I am asking for the consent of Stortingen to the proposed extension of the cost framework.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1286	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1289	Unfortunately, the party looks at St.prp. No 37, on the extension of the New Rikshospital cost framework as a project among several where, unfortunately, the cost framework has not been kept. This, of course, has several reasons, but the clearer it seems that such matters should not be dealt with in the future. There must be clear rules, and responsibilities must be included. St. pp. No 37 Unfortunately, the state as a builder gives a bad reputation both among our own inhabitants and also out in the world. Keeping the budgets must be alpha and omega. The fact that plans change along the way and therefore also the final sum, is one thing, but that without a visible larger reason you get an extra cost, is not good. In this case with the Rikshospitalet, one of the reasons may seem to be a lack of design. It is clear from the proposition that the cost framework has been set on a too uncertain basis and is likely to have been underestimated. It will therefore be interesting to note that the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of the Grand Duchy has dealt with the Riksrevision study. This will probably provide some answers that are currently difficult to give with certainty. The Progress Party will also show that we are already in the Innst. S. No 215 for 1991-92 on the construction of a new Rikshospital expressed great skepticism that the department reduced bed capacity in line with the recommendations made by the professional user board. The forwarding party had strong doubts as to whether this would provide sufficient and satisfactory offers in several areas. It may now appear that the doubts of the Progress Party were justified, as the gross area has actually increased by about a quarter. 2,900 m2 in addition to the area envelopes adopted, which represent approximately 2 900 m2. 2 1⁄2 pst. The number of employees and patients has also increased in relation to previous frames, and even more than 2 1⁄2 pst. Otherwise, the Progress Party will note that this time too is a matter of urgency. It shouldn't be like that, but we find it necessary to accept this, because the Progress Party believes it is important that the Rikshospital is completed as soon as possible, and that it becomes a functional hospital for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1300	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3119]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1314	The thing we're dealing with here today is something special. The background is, as you know, that the government in the long-term message that the Stortinge treated last June had only taken half of the cost of the frigate project. There was a feeling of dissatisfaction at Stortinget. When we first have a system of long-term messages, they should cover everything, and so we asked for an investment profile before the end of last year, where this should be included. This is the essence of the matter, and in the treatment we have stressed that in that context we should concentrate on what is the central point and the main cause, and not involve too much else. As you know, the government's proposal is that the funding of the second half of the frigates, which were not included in the long-term message, will amount to a total of DKK 6 billion, by adding an extra 1 billion to the defence budget, excluding the ordinary budget from 2001 to 2006. Otherwise, the Government will maintain the strength structure and task spectrum of St. Announcement. No 22 for 1997-98. I think there's a reason to stroke under this. There is a lot of concern today that almost everything needs to be changed in defence, that everything is kind of new after NATO's summit, etc. But that summit didn't reveal something that I don't think everyone would expect to come. The international operations and the new strategic concept have been developed, but there is really nothing new about that either in relation to what NATO is already involved in in Bosnia with IFOR and SFOR. So all in all, I think there's reason to stress that the government is on the tasks that the defense is supposed to have, as it was decided on a proposal from the same government last June. The Committee agrees. And this must be the direction of the work to be done in the defence up to the next long-term message. When it comes to international operations, we know there's a special problem with getting people. It's dramatic, it's embarrassing that Norway is not able to meet its obligations to NATO, as we've just seen an example of. There we have from our side, from the Right, sent a letter to the Government that they must immediately take action so that we can fulfil our obligations towards NATO. We look forward to receiving this message about international operations in ours, where one can fix what is not good enough today. Because it's urgent, it cannot wait for the next long-term message. When it comes to defence today, the main problem, as I see it, is the lack of consistency between measure and means. And this is going to remind us of daily life in these times. The size determines the goal, and then it doesn't follow up in the annual budgets. Then you have to cut it, and then you have to cut it where you can cut it. Wages have to go, contracts are signed as well, and then there are often exercises you have to cut down on, it's on training, it's on maintenance of equipment and building mass, it's on stock, the risk of misinvestment increases, and you have to cut new investments where possible. We've had a very unfortunate example of it in recent times, having signed a contract to renew the Hercules fleet, which is very old and expensive in operation, and had to cut out that contract because a plurality here in the house used the material investment chapter in the Defense as a crosspost for all sorts of other things. That contract therefore had to be cancelled, and we see today what kind of problem it has created, not least in connection with our international operations. After many years of failure to comply with the annual budgets in accordance with the targets, it appears that this is becoming an acute problem for the Defence. That is why I think it is very gratifying that a number in the committee have highlighted this in the vote, in which the majority, the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right, say the following: ‘The majority emphasise that if we are to have effective defence in accordance with the assumptions and the greatest possible effect of the appropriations given, it is necessary to take this issue seriously.’ I would like to stress that this is the defence's fundamental problem. It's completely banal in the individual household that if you decide to buy something, do something, or do something, you have to make sure you can afford it. That's the way it is all over life. It looks like it's just here in the house that it's a completely unattainable goal, an ideal like a kind of fatam organ, which is always on the horizon. It seemed unworthy of a national parliament, and it is unworthy of a government when a government provides long-term messages and is unable to follow them up, so that we get the problems that this chosen. I want to emphasize that it is necessary that we now clean this up, and I am very happy that a large number of people in this house have said this as clearly as it is done in this setting. The defense is also an organism where one has bits to drop in place, where one invests in a long-term perspective, where a constant time has to adjust the course. That's why I thought the system we have is good. We have long-term messages every four years, based on an assessment of the security policy situation, which assesses the kind of defence we need. So we decide, and then one has to follow up on the annual budgets. I'm totally disagreed with those who say that we have a defense as if the cold war still existed, etc. That is often said, and in my view it is totally wrong. We had the Willoch Commission, which assessed what was necessary after the Cold War ended, that the Army etc. were halved etc. We have had a long-term message on the basis of it, we had a long-term message last year, and we are constantly making this adjustment in a way that I think is good. The problem is I'm saying, when you can't follow up, you get a very special problem and, in part, misuse of resources that we shouldn't have. When it comes to the individual investment objects in this message, I'll just say a little about the frigates. There's a group committee that supports the government's arrangement, and we're now looking forward to getting the investment proposition that's announced, so we can get on with that project. In the case of motor torpedo boats, the Labour Party and the Right, which represent a multiple in this room, repeat that the project is to be carried out in a rational way. When a decision is made for this project and is launched on a front-series vessel, the only rational thing is that if the tests on the front-series vessel are successful, it goes forward immediately. If you add this and you want to take it back after a few years, it'll be more expensive. We got a strong reminder about it yesterday, as we were on a test trip on the fjord with the front-line vessel that was for demonstration. This isn't a rational way to operate, and with the narrow borders that the Defense has today, we can't operate that way. The right hand side and the Labour Party will repeat and underline, because the Government has not taken into account the comment we had about this in the long-term message last year, that if this front-series ship is to be tested at approximately One year, we'll be successful, and then we'll move on right away. And I hope that the Council of State notices it, so that she can help make it this way, so we don't have any more controversy about this. It was supposed to be a self-evident thing that with as tight a frame as the Defense has today, we are forced to move forward in a rational way. No one disagrees that we need the MTBs, and then we have to get them properly. There is also another element in this context, and it relates to the capacity and competence of those who make this ship. The situation in the Norwegian shipbuilding industry today is coastal, and we can't just assume that when we have very high-quality skills, which we have in this area, it's also worth taking care of. If we can then take care of this at the same time as we get new purchases for the defence in the most rational way, I think it should be easy to fix it this way. When it comes to the next long-term message, Stortinget has said that it will have the message so early that it can be dealt with in the spring session in 2001. We had five years before. In connection with the previous long-term message, the Storting decided that it would have four years because things change so fast, and it will have the message for treatment at the end of a major period. That means we must have it in the spring of 2001, i.e. in two years' time. That's what Storting wants, and the government has to do. I see it as very important that one in this work concentrates resources on doing a thorough job on the long-term message. The government is completely free to decide which people it wants to include in this work, what ideas it will take – new, old or whatever; it's completely free to go to the Government. But a number here in the house already warn against e.g. to establish a selection to be carried out in parallel with the Ministry’s work on the long-term communication and to bring it to Stortinget with one or other report to be dealt with a few months before the long-term notification must be completed. The government is free to identify the selections it wants, but we are very concerned that the work on the long-term message has to be done in a rational way, and that we have to get it in time, so that we can deal with it in the spring of 2001. I would like to strongly warn the Government against using this eventual selection as an incentive to postpone decisions that should be taken immediately. We won't look at this kind of operation with gentle eyes. Otherwise, I would like to suggest the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1351	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1354	The Right Party, like the Progress Party, has followed very closely what has been the financial prerequisites for achieving the objectives set by the Biggest Party by means of funds. It is just to state that the gap between objectives and resources has increased, as the representative Godal was also involved. So in general, there are good intentions Right comes with, there's no particular doubt about it. But in one area, which has economic consequences, the Right, together with the Workers' Party, will accelerate the acquisition of MTBs – against the Chief of Defense's advice. At the same time, we know that the main weapons of these MTBs will not be finished by the manufacturer until we come out in 2003-2004. It seems that the Right is most concerned about building boats that can go fast in the water, but without having the main weapon in place. It must also be such that if the Right wishes to provide this, it must be expected that the Right is interested in carrying out tests under all the climatic conditions in which the ship is expected to operate, so that the prototype can prove the characteristics to which it is intended. If you provide for this, as you will, I would like to ask the Right in concrete terms: is the Right intend to increase the framework of the defence budget in order to make room for this? Or has the Right intend to re-prioritize the budget in order to obtain funding for MTBs in this way? Although there is now a majority for this by the Right and the Labour Party, there will probably not be a majority to increase the financial framework. It might be interesting to know if the Right is still willing to erode the defence budget by providing things for which there is no economic coverage.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1363	It's not about providing a project, it's about doing a project in a rational way, as I was in my post instead. It'll cost more if we do it the way the head of defense, the government and the party of progress, and we think it's stupid. We like to listen to the head of defense, but we don't follow his advice if we don't think they're wise. I think one took a position on this question when one started the series ship. Twice we've decided here in the Stortinget that we should have eight new MTBs. We're going to launch the front-series ship. We took one vessel, not eight, as we did with the mining vessel, because we would avoid repairing eight if there was a problem. We took one. And it's clear that if the samples succeed, it's the only rational thing to keep going right away, and that's what we're going in for. So there's others going in to delay, it's not us going in to sustain. When the costs are incurred, it is easy to cover them within the financial framework of the Right. After what is stated in this message, it means 50 million. NOK to next year, SEK 50 million. kr then again, and then 300 million. kr again in a few years. The primary point of view is that this takes us by increasing the permissions, as we've had suggestions every year, and then we'll see. I don't think there's any problem for anyone with the 50 million. kr next year, and not with the 50 million. kr then rather. What we'll do afterwards, we'll get back to consulting those who make up the plural then.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1372	Credibility is an important concept both when we talk about parties, and when we talk about defense. In his argument, the right is of the utmost importance that the defense does not have enough money, and according to SV's point of view, too little emphasis is placed on the fact that the defense has a concept that is immature. Does the Right not see that there is a need for something more than a new long-term message, and that there will be a need for a new defence concept that addresses new challenges that we now have no answer to? And when it comes to the credibility of parties, it's a little strange now to hear the Right saying that they're going to fund their defense within their own budget. There is a good situation in Stortinget that you have to find a way to figure out how much money you spend in the budgets. And then the Right most important signal in the budget case last year was that it should not cost a penny more in taxes for anyone, anyway – it was the most important thing. And then in retrospect you lift defense as a very important matter, and make it almost deadly to live in this country if we don't spend more money on the Defense. This is not credible. In addition to that, over the last few days' debate on how to finance what is happening in Kosovo and the efforts for refugees has shown that right there has also been willing to think thoughts that go towards taking money from conflict resolution work in other areas of the world and putting them into pure war operations. I am asking about the Right Context and credibility in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1379	There were a lot of questions. The defense doesn't have enough money, and one doesn't care about the defence concept – I spent a lot of my post doing things for how important it is that there is consistency between goals and resources. That's our point. We shall not spend more money on defence than is necessary, but we shall adopt plans for what kind of defence we need, based on an assessment of the security policy situation, and it will adjust us every four years. We've done it twice after the Cold War was over. What we have now, in our opinion, is in accordance with what we need in today's situation, and the government has said in its message that it is completely in agreement. Then we have to allow money according to that, because if one doesn't, one gets the problems we were dealing with instead, with which no one has started. So here it's just about consistency. I suggest that we finance the MTBs within our arrangement. It's clear that when I'm here today, I'm here on behalf of the Right. And we'll finance the MTBs within what's our economic structure, where we'll follow the defense chief's recommendation in the 1996 Defense Study on 1.5 pst. growth. We took this into account in the long-term communication last year, which was taken into account in our draft budget last year to the last five o'clock – and that is what we are about. Within it there is no problem to fund the MTBs. When it comes to international efforts and so on, I cannot understand that there should be any conflict between helping in different ways. One way to help is military operations, and that there should be something more ugly than other things, that Andersen's representative was in, I'm totally disagreed with. The Telemark Battalion and other Norwegian soldiers. They're very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1390	Well, I know that if the Right and Advance Party's budget proposals had primarily received a majority, there would have been room to do a lot more with the Defense and bring things together. But the problem is that if the Right joins with the Workers' Party to acquire MTBs before the Defence Manager's recommendation says you should do that, it's not certain that the Workers' Party has the same amount of money to spend on the framework, and then it goes beyond something else, and that's what the Right will agree to contribute to. That should worry right. Of course, both the representative Godal and I and others from the Progress Party can, with a good conscience, keep the tab high. But if you don't make sure you get an invasion, you'll have a consequence. So in my opinion, it's not just to refer to Right's primary budget, it's the majority constellation that counts. And it gets its consequence. So the representative of Godal maintains that he is on a safe footing when it comes to the progress of this. I take it for granted that the head of defence assessed all aspects of this when he gave his recommendation. And then the representative Godal says it'll cost more if you don't provide it. Then I allow myself to ask the representative Godal: what does the representative Godal know about the economy of this that the head of defence doesn't know? It would be interesting to find out, because I assume that the head of defence, if new information on the consequences of deferrals were made clear, would make sure to follow up and through the ministry promote views on this. It obviously hasn't come out. But if the representative Godal knows that the head of defence here has changed his mind about what he said originally, and that the department has stopped it, I think it would be okay and very interesting to get this straight.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1397	I have a little difficulty understanding the Røsjord's problem with the latter. He was with us yesterday when we were out sailing with the new MTB, and the captain general of the Maritime Defense was present and explained everything about the progress and said straight away: If there were to be a stop between the tests and the start of the production, it would be more expensive. He made it quite clear, and that makes sense, so there's no doubt about it. Now the defense has one year on it. Until 1 July next year, they have an option at Kværner Mandal. That's how we discussed with them yesterday, good enough time to try it. One can if one will, travel to the storms at Cape Horn to try the boat in the rough – it’s good time for this, so this is no problem. It's just a matter of will. So ask Røss soil what it's going to go over. I am absolutely sure that my name brother and I will be a few things about it. I've said what's right up there, so we'll talk about it and become a few. But what's absolutely certain is that one has to finish one project before one starts the next. It's just like with babies: they take a cake, and then they take a piece, and then they see another cake they get more light, so they lift the first one and take the next one! It is okay that kids can operate like this in the cake barrel, but it is not quite good for the Defense to operate with it when they are going to buy equipment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1406	I did not get a response to my reply instead. When it comes to negotiations on the budget, is the defense so important to the Right that it could be worth a penny more in tax? It is about credibility and that this is an important matter for the Right. If it is that there is not worth a single penny more in tax for someone, this may not be a particularly important matter. I'm just asking Godal to at least think about it. I've also been to Bosnia. I think we all have friends in the Balkans. I also believe that there is a cross-political consensus that the goal is not to spend a single penny on war operations like this. Therefore, it is very important that we do not touch money that goes into preventative conflict work elsewhere when we receive expenses for war operations. And that's this insurance I want the right now to repeat: that way won't go right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1413	When it comes to the state budget, a dollar is a little bit of a dollar to talk about, but it's eel money. In the budget last year, we carried out the procedure on which Mr Andersen was represented. We cut out tax incentives for reasons that everyone knows: the level of interest rates and all the consequences that would have come if we hadn't done it. At the same time, we pressed the Government, just enough by a hard pressed, to say its own long-term message. It's not good enough in our view, but at least we got the government to stand on what she had proposed for the Storting and got the Storting to adopt. I did it, and I think we should do it one more time. When it comes to money, I don't understand the problem. But if the problem is that we take money, for example. from the aid budget and users in Kosovo, I have small counterparts against it. We know that a lot of the u-help gives dubious results. We also know that in Kosovo there is a very acute need that cannot be discussed at all. The only thing we can discuss is the way we're going to go forward so we can reach the most possible of these as soon as we can. That's the theme there. So if we take from u-help and use it for the operation in Kosovo, I think it will mean much more purely humanitarian.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1421	No more lines have been requested.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1424	Of course, MTBs are important, but it is likely to be somewhat skeptical if it should be the main theme of today's discussions. I agree with the rapporteur that it is useful that we now have a follow-up to what a joint defence committee asked for last year in connection with the treatment of the long-term programme of defence. It is useful to get a concrete illustration of the investment needs in the future with the corresponding comments from the Storting, so that we know what we're doing not just next year and year after, but until 2006. It appears from the Opinion that there is a broad and general consensus on the position of the Ministry in the key areas of the submission to the Stortinget. After we have been sent this matter, it has certainly been for other reasons that the debate on the defence has resolved in a way that is difficult to programme both by the department and by the defence committee. I see it in itself as a useful thing. All that we in the Defence Committee and in the Ministry of Defence feel that we are contributing to daily, has suddenly become interesting to the public, and I think that is positive. Because that means that one has a better informed basis for the political decisions that the Storting should take on all the crossroads that we have in the future in this very central field. I'm going to limit myself to linking a few comments to the general one. Already last year, in connection with the setting up of the long-term programme, a unanimous committee said: ‘The Committee also refers to the views of the Defence Manager as expressed in Annex 1 to the Communication, where it appears that access to resources may make it necessary to review the tasks of the Defence Agency. The Committee considers it natural that this should be taken into account in the further planning process so that evaluations and decision-making bases are included in the next long-term notification, in comparison with the structure of the day.» Of course, this wording covers a great many of the needs that have come to public attention lately. And we know on a preliminary basis the defense chief's arrangements for the further mini-study in this area. We have gone further in the debate on this in the environments involved in the debate on the tasks of defence, than perhaps one has managed to bring beyond this somewhat narrow environment. We believe that it is completely unnecessary to set up – as SV is in favour of today’s meeting – a new defence commission to investigate a new defence and security policy concept for Norway, with the aim of achieving something completely new. It goes without saying that we need to cover up a new security reality for Norway in the future. It is also the intention of a unanimous committee in the past, and that, as far as I understand, is also the intention of the arrangement that the head of defence is now working on. I also assume that this is the basis when the department in turn presents its revised plan to the Stortinget in the form of a new long-term message. We believe that it is delaying and unnecessary to have a new, wide-ranging, complex commission, and I would therefore recommend that the members of the Workers' Party vote against the SV's proposal, whether it is maintained – which is probably reason to believe it is – not because we think it is uninteresting, but because we believe that this is taken care of through the processes we are already in, and so on, it can all mean a delay more than the opposite. So some comments about the concrete points in today's setting, first to the frigates. I am fully aware that this matter is being promoted in the Council of State either first or next Friday – perhaps the Council of State will comment – and we cannot, of course, prejudge the discussion in the Stortinget by saying too much about it today. But I assume that the department assumes that one will make the best choice for the defense, based on the means at its disposal. I also take it for granted that it will have an eye on how this can be used and seen in the context of the need for employment and technology development in Norway. It does all the other countries, and it would be an accident if Norway didn't. I don't mean by putting leadership on which of the three alternatives the ministry is going to choose, it gets the ministry to propose to the Stortinget. But there would be something very special about the Ministry of Defence, as the only Ministry of Defence in NATO, not only did strong leadership not only on how to get more defence out of each krona, but also on how to promote technology development and employment in Norway, not only through repurchase, because it is a matter of course, but through connections through the contract negotiations that the main contractor will conduct with Norwegian stakeholders. Here, regardless of the choice one finally makes, we expect an active line, so that the defence sets the conditions that are necessary, whether it is one or the other that wins, so that Norwegian companies and businesses can get the maximum out of this. And here it is Norway that decides, not Bazan and not Blohm+Voss, which connections are to be made. I would like the Council to comment on it if she disagrees on such a line, because it will give us better opportunity to prepare for the next discussion, when it has to come, on an even more concrete basis. But I take it for granted, with the background of the Council of State in the Kongsberg environment, that here she will have a keen eye for these issues, not only by saying repurchase, dot, but by actively helping to ensure that the contract negotiations that are coming fall out as positively as possible for Norwegian stakeholders, regardless of the choice of the main supplier, which is another discussion. So some words about the MTBs also from my side. Of course, we cannot decide that the test project will be successful. That's what you did in the Soviet Union in the old days. Of course, we have to look at the results of the project. But I fully agree with Ingvald Godal that if the project is as successful as we have reason to hope, and perhaps also believe, it would be irrational if the capacity of what was Kværner Mandal, should suddenly disappear, with the result that one had to start all the way back at some point. It doesn't surprise me that the head of defense, given the scarce resources, prioritized as he does. His task is not primarily to think about this side of the matter; his task is primarily to obtain funds within the framework that is. But I'm going to think that with a successful trial project, it's quite possible to phase in the MTB project in such a way that it doesn't eat all the world. The representative of Ingvald Godal mentioned 50 million. NOK plus 50 million. Two years in a row, and it's not sure that it's 300-400-500 million. kr the following year either. The central thing is to maintain a production capacity that allows the series to be completed, but perhaps over a slightly longer stretch, if it would prove to be a basis for it through a successful test project. So these things are important, and I agree with the Right Spokesman that here it's central that the possibilities don't go away, with the result that a test vessel costs about 300 million. kr or what it has become is funds thrown out of the window because in the meantime the capacity has disappeared. It would, of course, be a tragic development and a very bad economy. I'm not saying that primarily to say that the defense is going to spend money on employment regardless of whether the project is useful for the defense or not – I assume that the project is useful for the defense. And that, of course, requires a successful trial project. With regard to the broader defence debate we've had over the last few weeks, I'd like to make sure that more people have noticed the interest of the director of the Defence Research Institute, where he made the fresh recommendation that the committee should basically draw its position and leave the discussion on these things to the Stortinget, but at a later stage. I do not think this is due to the fact that the FFI necessarily disagrees with the reality of what is in the suspension, but he expresses a suspicion that later accumulation is unable to provide with the means necessary to complete these investment programmes. Well, of course it's true, and it's a bad start when the government that's sitting starts the long-term programme period, i.e. the current year, with a cut in relation to the long-term programme assumptions of almost NOK 1 billion. If it were to continue in the future, it goes without saying that the director of the FFI is getting it right. But we must take the goal of acting as some adult people in this assembly, and that is the starting point for us to have defence budgets every year from the Government, adopted in the Storting, which make it possible to live up to the investment frameworks that lie there. But I would like to remind you that this is not just a message to the Government, to the Defence Committee and to the Storting, it is also required that generals do something more than call for more money and say that it is the responsibility of politicians. There is a need to tighten up so that the savings already adopted by the Stortinge are achieved in all areas affecting weapons, where the defence is far below the timetable. If it's going to bolder decisions to get to it in terms of central staff and general's environment, we're going to have to take that discussion, but it's not the arrangement for today's meeting. On this basis, I strongly recommend an almost unanimous position on all important points, and believe that it provides a good basis for the investment programme in the Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1451	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1454	It is not difficult to agree with most of what the representative Bjørn Tore Godal said. What's important is what Godal pointed to, long-termity and predictability. It is obvious that if you are not now able to follow-up with funds the objectives you set by accepting this investment programme, it may be wrong for the defence in the future. And it's, as the representative Godal also said, a significant responsibility like this house has to take inwards. And that's precisely why the Defence Committee took the step of asking the Government to present this document, so that we could make this responsibility fully visible. Now it's the way that the Biggest determines the budgets annually. This is a significant challenge to raise your eye every year to the horizon you are now setting. It is to hope that the Workers' Party will also be able to do what the representative Bjørn Tore Godal points to. In this respect, the exercise by the Workers' Party during this year's budgetary procedure was not very convincing either, although the Government was much worse in its handling of this. But they got into place. They were helped as far as it was possible to carry them. And it can sometimes be heavy, President. So the representative Godal says that it must be possible to streamline and restructure the defence. Yes, we agree with the heart. But then my question becomes Bjørn Tore Godal: If you get this efficiency gain, is Godal and the Workers' Party willing to keep the efficiency gain in the Defense, so as to increase opportunities in a new future?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1463	The difference in defence willingness between the Progress Party and the Workers’ Party through the last year’s budgetary procedure was reduced to 150 million. I guess that's an appropriate amount. I don't think we can dramatize the differences on such a basis. But of course, we are fully aware that we have obligations in this which must be taken seriously, not only in our group, but in all groups. I believe, to the extent that the public debate we are now gradually given on the tasks and opportunities of defence to carry out these tasks, contributes to a broader public commitment that will work positively in all political parties. It is possible that the Progress Party does not need it, but I think it has a positive effect in other parties, which will come along well when we know how the discussions go in the Storting, the pressure of the priorities between care for the elderly, school, education, kindergartens, culture and defence. I think we have to admit that it is often difficult out in the street and out in the countryside to get an impact that defence is also an important purpose. I think we've got a visualization of it in a more direct way than before, that might seem positive. It goes without saying that the effectiveness of defence needs to be improved in order to carry out both old and new tasks. And I can assure the committee leader that we haven't planned to reap the efficiency gain and then use it for other things. That would be contrary to what we have also said in the past about this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1472	I note that the Workers' Party does not believe that there is a need for SV's proposals today. It was by no means surprising. But I could imagine challenging Godal to come up with the new challenges that he thinks the new long-term message must take on board. I understood that even the representative Godal and the Workers' Party recognize that what we have today is not enough, either in terms of defence or security policy, and then it might be interesting to put it into practice a little bit more from Godal. So Godal takes care of efficiency. Most people realize that the defense will be less in the future. Then the defense has to be reduced somewhere, and that must mean that one looks at quite a change in the location of the defense. It could mean strong centralization, it could mean – I've heard people present in this room today think loud about it – that you can think of reducing the defence presence in North Norway quite strongly. Can the representative Godal say a little about what kind of thoughts he and the Workers' Party have about this, and whether it wouldn't be right to get a total review of this before a locks fixed money in investment and structure according to the old pattern?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1483	The defense is being continuously transformed. During the debate, one sometimes gets the impression – not from the representative here – that this is something new, that the defence has not been through a conversion process. It's been started for the longest time, and we're in the middle of it. There have been many discussions in the Storting about the closure of both the one and the other. Almost all rapporteurs in all parts of the country will be fully aware of this. It has cost a lot of money, blood, sweat and tears, because one loses jobs. But, of course, one cannot hold on to all military jobs if the war so to speak disappears, at least in old fashion. This restructuring we follow up on an annual basis through constantly new propositions and arrangements from the Government, and it continues. So national defence has been halved in a relatively few years. So you can always discuss: does it mean centralization? I don't want to use that word. This means, of course, that many jobs disappear from many municipalities. We have to be willing to pay that price, even though of course there are a lot of places in there, and where, as much as other parties' rapporteurs and group leaders, we are at least as active in the ball. I believe that in the work now taking place at the head of defence and in the ministry, the need for a better balance between international operations and territorial defence of Norway will be a very important balance. I hope and believe that it is not necessary to choose one or the other. With 24 billion dollars it must be possible to do quite a lot of both. What that arrangement should look like in order to get a maximum effective connection, we have an open relationship to. There's still to be seen, and of course, here we're waiting primarily for the Government's views. But it is in this area, our ability to be more effective and strong in international operations – directed by the UN and others – that the main challenge lies.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1492	The scheduled time for the morning meeting is immediately over. The President will propose that we proceed with the line change until it is finished, and that we then cancel the meeting to put it back at 0 p.m. 6:00 p.m. - It's seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1495	This is a Communication that describes relatively detailed some projects from this year until 2006. In the case of the MTB, we have continued the disagreement that was related to the long-term message, also into this setting. What has happened both through the contributions of Bjørn Tore Godals and Ingvald Godals is that it is a little more precise what it is about. The message outlines a start-up scheme for the project in 2003 of 50 million. kr, the same level in 2004, then increasing it to 300 million. kr in 2005 and continue to do so beyond this message's framework until the project is completed. Now both of the Godals are talking about that there's amounts in the 50-million-class they see should be accelerated. Is the picture that the Workers' Party is thinking of taking the project within the investment profile and moving it two to three years in time, that is, moving the heavy part into conflict with some other projects? Or is it talking about a relatively small allocation in the years to come, until the heavy part of the project comes, so that one avoids the displacement of other projects? This question seems to me to hang a little bit after both of the posts that have now been around MTB.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1506	Yeah, it's kind of hanging in the air, because it's a little too early to answer it. Firstly, the pre-project must have been successfully implemented. Then I have understood, without having the paperwork in front of me, that it is approx. 50 million. SEK + 50 million. For two years. That's when the capacity is saved at the yard. How much is going to happen, and what is rational in the years that follow, we have to discuss when we get that far. Of course, the purpose is to implement the series in such a way that it is capacity and that those who have competence to do so are able to do so. However, we will have a pragmatic relationship with and will be concerned with discussing in close consultation with military and political authorities. I don't think it's possible to answer it more specifically, because it's about things that are two to three years ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06.ana.ud1076e1513	So the line change is over. The morning sitting is also late. The President noted that the first case at the evening meeting was the examination of document No. The 8-proposal submitted by the representative Johan J. Jakobsen before the meeting started today early.
