ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e50	The representatives of Aud Blattmann, Olav Akselsen, Annelise Höegh, Jan Simonsen, Jorunn Ringstad, and Tom Thoresen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For the province of Hordaland: Terje Søviknes For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Anne Lise Lunde For Uppland State: Kjell Ivar Fossnes For the Rogaland County: Helga Rullestad
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e104	It is with pleasure that I, as the rapporteur-general, can say that the Committee on this matter is largely united. In particular, this is not a single case, but five separate cases. These include the development of the Huldra field, participation in the Western process, the development of costs in Åsgard, the disposal of outsourced offshore installations and the OSPAR Convention and the disposal of the East-Frigg facilities. The Huldra field is planned to be expanded with an unmanned platform to be remotely controlled from Veslefrikk. The cost was in the PUD estimated at NOK 4.4 billion, but increased to NOK 5.5 billion. This significant increase in cost estimate is justified by the operator with experience of ongoing projects, increased need for use of its own personnel and increased drilling costs. It could have been tempting to enter into a more comprehensive debate on the cost development of Norwegian pedestal in general and the issue we are discussing today, in particular. However, the government has reduced a sample – the so-called Investment Committee – that has gone through cost developments on the socket, and the Committee has therefore found it appropriate to take the debate on cost developments at a later stage, when the Stortinge has been properly briefed on the conclusions of the Investment Committee. The Western process is a 60 km gas pipeline linking Kollsnes, Sture and Mongstad, as well as an NGL facility on Mongstad. West process will transport and process wet gas from Troll and Oseberg. The starting point is that, as part of the approval of the Oseberg Sør project, the rightholders were required to build installations on land to take out the wet gas quantities so that the added value of this gas could be realised. The rightholders initially did not agree, and the compromise is that the west process is being expanded, while Hydro is building its own LPG plant on Sture, where they will process their share of the wet gas from Oseberg. The project was launched in 1998 and is planned to be completed in 1999. What we're going to decide today is a state holding through HOUSE. The Ministry's proposal follows Statoil's recommendation on a 41 p.m. share of SDOE. It shall be opened to change the ownership if gas from new projects changes the State share of the gas passing through the plant. In the proposal, the Ministry also provides new information on the cost development of Åsgard. The cost has increased from NOK 29.5 billion in St.prp. No 50 for 1995-96 to 33.4 billion in St. Prp. No 15 for 1996-97, reaching NOK 37 billion in the operator's estimate in the autumn. There is a significant increase in costs. Increased costs associated with the drilling ship and increased drilling costs are the main cause of the large increase in cost estimates. Of course, the entire committee is concerned about the cost development of the socket and will, as I said, come back to this at a later stage. The Committee as a whole is also pleased that one has succeeded in reaching an agreement aimed at preventing excessive dumping of outsourced offshore installations. I want to express joy both over the ban itself and over the reasonable exceptions that have been achieved. I would like, among other things: highlight the exemption for the concrete installations we already have on the Norwegian base. It is also worth noting that this legislation does not place any weight on the choice of design material on devices planned to be removed after use. The last case is the disposal of East-Frigg devices. The Committee has noted that the Ministry recommends the removal of the Frigg field's three underwater installations and that the decision relating to cables and pipes is postponed to the final disposal programme for pipes and cables. The Committee shares the Ministry's wish for the most cost-effective disposal solution and therefore supports the setting of the time for disposal after the operator has assessed cost savings related to coordination with the removal of installations in other areas in the area. The State’s share of the expenditure in line with the law on the distribution of waste and the State’s ownership is 46 million. kr. I would like to agree with the recommendations made by the Government in the proposal to the Stortinget, and I am pleased that it seems that we are getting a general agreement from the Committee on this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e127	A unanimous committee has approved further expansion of the Huldra field. Although this is a minor extension, it is gratifying that there are at all new expansion projects on the Norwegian base at a time of low oil prices and lower activity alerts. The project will contribute to important employment and value creation. One may be tempted to ask if this extension had received unanimous approval if the Workers' Party had still been in government. Among other things, the resistance to expansion projects in the State Council’s own party was much stronger before it took over the government offices. I will nevertheless leave that debate at this point. There are still some aspects of development that have not been finally decided. The Committee considers that the builder will clarify the issue of pipelines and the relationship with fisheries with the fisheries authorities. Whereas the parties must jointly come up with solutions which adequately safeguard their fishing interests; There are significant increases in costs related to the development of Huldra. The same applies to the development of the Åsgard field, where costs have increased by SEK 3.6 billion since Stortinget was last informed about the development of the project. I agree with the rapporteur that overruns on the base should be discussed in a broader context. We will therefore come back to a general discussion of cost developments in the petroleum sector after the Investment Committee has submitted its report to the Department. The Committee endorses the Ministry's recommendation on participation in the Western process, which will link the three oil and gas pipelines of Kollsnes, Sture and Mongstad. The Western process will contribute to more value creation and growth in the region. At the same time, a better use of resources will be made by the NGL plant in Mongstad exchanging energy and operational services with the petroleum terminal and the refinery. Connecting the three facilities increases flexibility and makes them more robust for the future. The members of the Committee from the Right are of the opinion that they will come back to the question of lower participation in the petroleum sector. None of the oil companies involved object to the proposed 41 p.m. share. in the Western process. However, the Labour Party agrees with the Right that it may be appropriate to discuss the role of the SEDØE. We will have ample opportunity to come back to this in connection with the treatment of the oil and gas message. I am pleased that we have succeeded in reaching an international agreement that limits the possibility of dumping outsourced offshore installations at sea. The OSPAR Convention is important for the protection of the north-east Atlantic while giving each country some freedom of action. As regards the Ministry's proposal for the disposal of East-Frigg facilities, the Committee shares the wish to achieve the most cost-effective solution possible. The Committee also agrees with the requirement that areas need to be sufficiently cleared for future uses as fishing grounds.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e146	Unfortunately, the cost excesses on Åsgard's development, which we are dealing with today, are adding to the range of too many exceedances in recent years. They now amount to a total of approx. 30 billion kroner. I want to express great concern at the many exceedances we have seen, and look forward to the Investment Committee report, which will be presented later this week, so that the Stortinge will have a proper review of the overall cost development and analyse the various causes of the exceedances, where the State through the EEA is also exposed to significant amounts. However, we will come back to this at a later stage in the examination of the report. So to OSPAR: In 1995, the Storting gave its consent to the ratification of the Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment of the North-East Atlantic, the so-called OSPAR Convention. At the OSPAR meeting last July, a general ban on the disposal of end-of-life offshore installations was decided. I am therefore concerned about the enormous costs that both the oil company and not least the Norwegian State can incur as a result. However, I am pleased that there has been a consensus on some important exceptions to the general rule and not least that individual countries are given some freedom of action in these specific cases. It is also positive that no guidance will be put into the choice of structural material in the future, so that both steel and concrete can still be accepted in future development projects. There is also reason to recall the involvement of individual countries in this matter, not least those countries that are not themselves subject to any specific costs of importance – this is also seen in relation to all the shipwrecks we have along our coast after World War II, and where Norwegian authorities, as far as I have brought on the clean, self-covered – and have always covered – all the cleaning costs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e155	The case spokesperson Rahm was concerned that we had been agreed not to do this. In that respect, I would still like to make a few comments on the matter. Tomorrow, the Council of State will hold a press conference in Stavanger on the report of the Investment Committee. What new can come out of it is uncertain. It is certain, however, that the report will confirm that the exceedances are enormous, perhaps even greater than what we know today. SV has for a number of years pointed to the lack of governance that the investments on the Norwegian base have been affected. Several times, we have proposed to reduce a tempo selection which could bring more long-term thinking into the Norwegian base business, but which could also dampen the price growth and bring costs down. The majority didn't want this, but they wanted the company to sail its own sea. The review melodies of the other parties have been to allow the market to be organised itself, even though the Government of the Adult Declaration speaks of oil and gas being "managed in a long-term perspective". And further on, one says: ‘The target must therefore be a steady production of oil and gas at a lower level than at present.’ Of course, in the government's defense, it may indicate that it has tried, and partly clearly, to control a little, but mainly has a staggering majority of the Labour Party, Right and Advance Party. These parts have been driven by too much tempo. So it's in their place to place the principal responsibility there. The Åsgard construction has a total of SEK 7.5 billion compared to the original cost estimates, which cost the state – through the EEA – expensive. The size of the exceedances on the base and on the country as a whole is still uncertain, but we are talking about amounts approaching 30 billion. The challenge is primarily at a high pace, and it goes to the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party – if they think this is acceptable, and that it is acceptable to pay an additional price of DKK 30 billion to keep the free market and not to control it. SV is eager to have the long-term perspective that the Government is expressing and to which it adds. SV would also like to repeat the proposal for a tempo selection, but would like to hear what the Council's proposal and comment on this is, once again, now that the situation is like him. In this setting, SV has a note that goes relative to the Kyoto protocol, which does not promise well in relation to the control of the Norwegian socket. We want an obligation in relation to the Kyoto agreement, but no party wants to follow this up. Here the majority had a possibility to participate in governance in an environmentally sound direction. SV has been very busy with recycling, recycling, installation on the base, and is therefore pleased that OSPAR has come into operation. We hope that recycling, re-use, can help maintain employment in the oil and gas industry.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e182	Let me first say that I am pleased that the Storting today gives its consent to the proposed decision on the disposal of outsourced offshore installations. The decision establishes a general rule on the prohibition of disposal of the type of marine installations. It is positive, both because it is predictable for the companies and because it premises for better protection of the marine environment. The exceptions set out should be of Norwegian interest and the exemptions require a case-by-case assessment of the installations. The Government also presents in the proposal the expansion plans for the Huldra field. For our part, it is important that the development of Huldra is an important contribution to fulfilling the long-term gas sales obligations undertaken by Norway in the years to come. By leading the gas from Huldra to Heimdal, the Heimdal platform also ensures its long-term business. The government has put forward the question of SEDØE participation in the Western process. I have noticed that there have been some comments, among others. from the right, on the question of participation in that type of project. I agree that this is a new phenomenon. It has been carefully assessed in the Ministry and the Government whether it is desirable or not. However, like the Right Members, I would like to point out that technological developments can make it more cost-effective to move parts of the extraction and processing functions into countries. This means that the boundaries of the area of activity of the Agency become less unambiguous than in the past. When assessing day-to-day participation, a person should take into account the type of functions performed, and not least the principle of balanced owner-and-shipboards, which I believe will become important. It has been important in transport systems and is also important in this case. Let me make a few comments on the question of cost excesses and the cost development of Åsgard. In the proposal, we have explained the cost developments that have taken place since the Åsgard field was decided to expand in 1996. It is very worrying that a development project increases its costs as significantly as the Åsgard development has done. Developments in this field were one of several reasons why the Government decided last autumn to reduce the Investment Committee, which has examined the cost increases that have been in some projects between 1994 and 1998. The Investment Committee will present its report tomorrow, and I think it is natural that the Storting should be briefed on the results and the measures that are being taken in the context of the revised national budget for spring. Like the rapporteur, I am of the opinion that the debate in the follow-up to the selection procedure becomes very important. I don't think there's going to be much guess to realize that the sample's conclusions are enough that there are complex reasons for the excess costs. It is not inconceivable that the high level of activity that a high level of activity provided in the years between 1994 and 1998 has contributed significantly to the increase in costs, together with the fact that one has had very rapid development solutions, where it has been a short time since the decision was taken, until the development was implemented. This has been said for the strong cost increases. I think we'll see that a little bit again in the Åsgard field. A good part of the cost increases are related to drilling costs, which are typical costs that increase the higher the level of activity you have. There's probably a connection that I think the Investment Committee will come back to. The representative of Langeland dealt with the more general aspects of oil policy and the issue of oil extraction and oil tempo. Let me remind you that the parties that are currently in government, in the period when we had the biggest increases in costs, were among the parties that warned against an excessive and exacerbated rate of oil extraction. Today we are at the point where we see the top of oil production in 2001 and 2002. Setting up a tempo selection to assess developments two years in advance, I do not think it is appropriate. I thought it was more important to reduce the Investment Committee to look at the high level of activity and investments, and we also need to make some very careful adjustments in terms of gas production for the years to come. Otherwise, I would also like to mention that 1998 was the first year in which oil production, i.e. the rate of extraction, declined slightly compared to previous years. It's one of the first years that it's happened. It's probably also a sign that you take more time, that you wait more, and that you don't make such faster decisions as you've seen in the last five years. Otherwise, I think we are facing challenges on a Norwegian base in the years to come in order to maintain sensible activity, both on the oil and gas side.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e199	That being the case, it is no. 1 finished. [[Fotation, see page 1792]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e213	On behalf of the Workers' Party's group, I will bring the following additions in connection with the decision. In connection with the transmission of the proposal at Innst. O. No 28 from Odelstinget's meeting on 12 January this year, I will be given the following explanation on behalf of the Labour Party in addition to the decision. After Odelstinget's meeting, the final debate on privacy for individuals suspected, intentional or accused has been a topical issue. For the Workers' Party, it is therefore important to stress that the main interest in privacy is established, but we see that the final legislative proposal should have an exception. So we want to emphasize what is in the setting, that when the suspect, aim, or accused wishes to do so, he can stand up with names and images, or when necessary for the police's work. In connection with the landfill management of Document No. 8:75 for 1994-95, by Olav Aksensen, it was also pointed out that where public interest concerns or disclosure of third parties require identification, it shall be stated, and that is one of the exceptions we wish to include in the assessment of the decision. It is also pointed out in the subsequent public debate that one should wait until the reduced Committee on Freedom of Speech has presented its work, before the bill is sent back to the Stortinget. This is what the Labour Party sees as right and important.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e222	It was an interesting post the representative Nistad now made. What really appeared in that post was that one has gone into a field of tension between privacy and freedom of expression with the very clear starting point, which in itself is very affordable, that one wants strong privacy. There's something that the Left also highlights in a lot of contexts. But when one enters a field of tension with another important principle, namely freedom of expression, there will often be reason to be careful and also to be concerned with the cross-cutting considerations. Many of the reasons why you want to have problems with making a good rule of law in this area, if you want to, are that you get a very clear field of stress between two important considerations. I have to say, of course, that when you hear the exceptions that the representative Nistad is now clarifying that you have to take into account in the further legislative work, it is very little left of the bastant wording contained in the proposal. When it is also clarified that one wants to wait until after the freedom of expression Commission has presented its position, and that the assessments and the focus that will then be on freedom of expression should be part of the assessment, I must say that it should be very close to choosing the transmission of this proposal instead of forcing a vote on a proposal with a wording that the representative in the post actually says is strictly not serious.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e229	The debate that has followed in the wake of this proposal has well shown that this was a proposal that was certainly good, but that was completely wrong. I'm not going to continue that debate, because I believe the arguments around are well-known. Nine-something here instead fully indicated that this proposal is not in any way ready to be implemented, and that there are many rounds to go before you can take some steps in this direction. They were invited here instead to submit the proposal, but I would rather encourage drawing the proposal, because it is not a good proposal. It's a good, but a little thoughtful proposal. It violates some important principles of legal certainty. It also violates the strong duty of the press, which they should still have, and which they should intensify, to exercise caution in such matters. I would encourage you to draw the proposal, and if that does not happen, SV will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e236	We had this debate when Odelstingen dealt with the odelsting proposition, so just a short article, since others now put up for debate here. I do not in any way agree that the comments of the Labour Party can be interpreted in such a way that you do not take your own proposal seriously. It has always been clear to the proposers that some exceptions are necessary and that there are arguments both for and against such a proposal. It is now sometimes the case that when you weigh privacy against freedom of expression and both are priorities and important, you have to make some adjustments. This is an important proposal. I became even more convinced of it than I have ever been when, in the end of the week a few weeks ago, I heard an interview with a bank manager from Tromsø who was arrested suspected of the biggest bank fraud in Norway's history. He was clearly freed. His comment afterwards on how this had affected his family, his cohabitants, his child – that the father of the family was produced in the media with a full name as one of the biggest economic frauds in Norway’s history – has convinced me even more that there is a need for legislation to prevent innocent individuals from being destroyed. SV believes that this has to do with legal certainty. That's just the point! It's a fundamental principle in our state of law that everyone is innocent until the opposite is proven. The fact that, when you're innocent, you risk being hanged out as a criminal in the media, because that's what happens, just because you're being investigated by the police or on the basis of bad police work and bad work from the prosecution authority, is unacceptable. The point is that I accept exceptional provisions, and I am also willing to accept exceptions in addition to those mentioned by the majority in the Committee's comments, as the Labour Party representative mentioned in his statement. The most important thing may not be to apply the principles to the bottom, but to present a proposal from the Ministry that takes account of this important proposal. The intention is just one thing, to make sure that the press hangs innocent people with a full name so that they can destroy their good name and reputation. If a proposal can be put forward that takes care of these intentions, I shall be satisfied. My concern about the exemption for the general interest is about who should define this. If we leave it to the press, we're essentially equidistant, because then the press can, of course, write what they want about anyone and all the time claim it's in the public interest. In Denmark, there was recently an interesting case. A person who had assaulted young children, who was infected by HIV, was arrested by the police and targeted for these sexual abuses. The police found it reasonable to try to get the names of several children who could have been abused by the same person. It was then necessary to indicate the name of this intended person. The police then had to go to a court of law and get the court's permission to give the name, which they of course got. I can imagine such a system also in Norway — that it is necessary to have a court order in order to state the name of a person if the court considers and agrees with the press agency that it has a public interest and that it is also necessary to prevent the spread of rumors that could harm other individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e251	I am so pleased that the representative Simonsen says he has become even more secure now than he was the last time he promoted the proposal. This indicates that he was not very sure when he promoted it. That is right, because it is simply a bad proposal. If you're going to always assume that you have to be able to make sure that there's an unfortunate reaction, and to prevent it in any case, you're on wild roads. With regard to the history of the bank manager to which Simonsen refers, it is absolutely impossible to imagine that such a purpose could remain unknown in a community. You might be able to keep a secret which person it was. It could not be better that there were twisted rumors in a city community that anyone who had more or less loose ties to a bank should have committed this injustice for which some were intended. This is simply a bad proposal. It is a poorly thought-out proposal. When Jan Simonsen says that he will be satisfied if a proposal is made that ensures that in any case no one is being wronged of any kind, it simply shows how hopeless it is to get such a law home.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e262	It came as a surprise that this debate was reopened. It's not long since we had this case dealt with in Odelstinget. But I see no reason to be dissatisfied that someone seems to have used the time to think well about it, and that it is therefore understood that what the Christian People's Party was doing in this matter was a reasonable position. I therefore think, for my part, that there is no reason to extend the debate further. I just noticed with pleasure that observation time can do good for someone and anyone.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e267	This is a new example of the fact that the Progress Party wants to face a difficult problem with simple solutions. Unfortunately, the world of reality is so that one has to go more nuanced than the representative Simonsen expressed in his post. It will have to be such that judgement is exercised. And when the Workers' Party in its arrangement to justify exceptions says that when the third party becomes injured, identification may be relevant, and when the public interest so warrants, identification may be relevant. Who, then, is to exercise such discretion? The individual editor has to do that. And then one is back in the field of excitement that a person is living with today, where one sees that the editorials take this very seriously, and where one sees that there are fewer cases than in many years that are brought before the Press Professional Committee that go on complaints from people who think they are improperly identified. So my conclusion is that it would be natural to draw this proposal because it will be hollowed out by the exceptions to which it opens up here. It will bring the situation back where we are today, where it's practiced discretion, not by the police or the politicians, but by the individual editor. Simonsen spices his posts with single examples, and he has also been involved in a case from Trundellag which ended with the identification in the newspaper of one of his party traps. The eye-catching thing is that the party itself, with its name, was sent out a press release that justified why this person was no longer able to find in certain functions. So one could get in the situation that the Progress Party was allowed to bring this to the market, but not the media, which was going to explain what had happened.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e274	Of course, this is a matter where it is necessary to exercise discretion. My problem is that the press has such strong self-interests in hanging out innocent people, because it increases the sales figures when you can write that a more or less famous person, like a politician in Oslo, was suspected of tax fraud and was clearly freed. It is of such interest to use this name to sell that the press is unable, and has proved unsuitable, to exercise an objective judgement based on the consideration that it may harm others, third parties, through the spread of rumors. The press's assessment is based on self-interest and therefore independent, objective persons must exercise this discretion. That is why it is necessary to have a law house that basically has a ban on hanging out innocent people. Instead, there are some exceptions to this that can be applied for through a court of law. That's my assessment. The Marthin from the Christian People's Party believed that the last time this was discussed, the Christian People's Party had shown that they stood for a reasonable position. This reasonable position is therefore based on the fact that the press itself, when the press so wished, can hang out to ridicule and ask anyone on whom the press may feel that there is no particular sin. The main argument in the debate that has taken place in the media now, where the press has of course played with everything they have of shooting – editorials, comment articles and angled reports in order to protect their own interest – has been that naming people suspected of criminal activity is usually done only in the context of financial crime or serious crime. And then I have to ask, is it so that people who run in private business and who have built up a small business and created jobs for people should not have the same protection as other people, because they sort of get stuck on the note as social stops? Is the limit on destroying people's emotional and personal lives at a income of 200,000 kroner or 400,000 kroner? That's the question you're left with and you have to ask the press to get an answer. The press, precisely because it makes it clear that this applies primarily to certain types of people, public people, that it wants to sell by known name and therefore does not take into account. And when the press is not willing to take into account – when the press is willing to destroy the lives of innocent people – politicians must intervene and protect those people and fight for the common man in society against media abuse, which is as serious as any other type of assault. That is why this proposal is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e281	This is a debate on ethics, and it's funny to hear the Progress Party now calling for more political governance over this part of ethics. There may be reason to put a big question mark on many of the assessments that the press has made, and there is no doubt that this has happened overstepped. But is it possible to use legal clauses to regulate this? And will that help? I don't think so. It's not allowed to hang people out – if you're not a politician. You're welcome. And it's a known technique that attracts attention, and that often can also play on feelings that make you get upset. If you're a politician, you can't just stigmatize people, but actually whole groups of people. That's what the Progress Party is known for, and that's the technique they use. So if the Progress Party feels that it's an ethical dilemma to blame individuals who are not sure of the cause of a particular offense, they should first of all go along with themselves, after the thorough debate I understand they've had on this question. I am absolutely sure that the legal certainty of individuals in relation to this has been ensured as the law is now. It is also possible to get a discount for this. Those parts can be sharpened. For example, I can. think I'll make the Editor's poster legal. But this bill now being promoted is bad, and I think that if you want to have an ethical debate within the press, with which everyone is served, you have to deal with the rules here and not go into such individual legislative proposals, which, in my opinion, should only be a sort of signal that someone is taking these victims more seriously than others. That's not right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e288	I think it's right, as the representative Karin Andersen finally said, that here one should be careful to say that someone takes the victims more seriously than others. I think one should be careful with that, at all, I think one should be careful in this debate. The representative of the Christian People's Party spoke about the reasonable position on this matter. I think there are several reasonable reasonings in this matter. On the one hand, it is the concern of people who are innocently hanged in public and who are not necessarily in the resource situation that the general protective device we have, for example. the injury law or otherwise is sufficient. But there is also a need for the press on our behalf to be outspoken in relation to the general reality of Norwegian society. In my best opinion, this is two very reasonable and meaningful reasoning lines. Norway is not alone in having such a debate. On the contrary, it is very intense in many of the countries we see as democratic and based on freedom of the press. There are thus different laws and practices in several of these countries. Let's be a little bit reverent about that problem. The representative, Astrid Marie Nistad, has now, on behalf of the Labour Party, given some premise for this bill, among other things. the intentions contained in it. There is no objection on the part of the Workers' Party that the Government does not present any concrete legislative proposal to Odelstinget until one has also seen the final result of the work of the so-called Freedom of Speech Commission. Of course, it is also implicit that the views expressed have to be assessed in relation to the present proposal. On the basis of such thinking, I believe that the rapporteurs themselves will have to take a position on whether to draw up the proposal or, where appropriate, to pass it on. But I believe, for my part, that the proposal with the premises and the debate we have now is the best basis for seeing how the final paragraph of the law is to be drafted in this area. I do not ignore the fact that we can deserve a further debate on this in Norwegian society, because there are so many important and fundamental features of this that we should all rather take more inwards than saying that the more sunny position here and now in this matter is the only sensible position.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e302	The representative of Thoresen, in his speech, has a good reason for the need for a debate on issues that lie within the area of tension we are dealing with here, the field of tension between freedom of expression on one side and privacy on the other. When the Freedom of Speech Commission presents its position later this year, there is a replay to a wide-ranging debate on these issues. And it is absolutely necessary, for what has been the case in recent years, is that freedom of expression in a number of areas has been restricted to bit by bit, among other things. by decision of this Chamber. In sum, this has contributed to a significant narrowing of freedom of expression in important areas. The representative of Thoresen points out that what is being given today is an important premise to be included in the evaluation of the proposal. The representative Simonsen said that he believes that independent, objective persons should consider when identifying third-party concerns, when identifying the interests of the general public and when identifying the interests of the police. This must therefore be assessed by an assembly of independent objective persons, a kind of court, one must assume. It would be of interest, when the representative of Thoresen emphasises that the premises in this debate are to be given priority in the further work, to hear whether the Workers' Party also sees such a remarkable design, where one moves the place where the assessments are to be made, from the editors' offices and to a meeting of independent, objective persons. Let this be said, so that it's underlined also from the left-hand side. When media abuse takes place and they take place, it is very necessary that a settlement be made with this. It also happens in the press's own organs, and I feel quite convinced that getting a judgment of their own on a highly professional basis is much more important than most other forms of reaction you might imagine.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e311	Just a few words after the statements of the representative Thoresen. I understand well the need of the Workers' Party to try to deepen this strange constellation with the Advance Party in this matter. The representative Thoresen hung himself up in what the representative Marthinsen called a reasonable position, and pointed out that there were many reasonable reasonings in this matter. I fully agree with that. There are many reasonable reasonings you can make, but at some point the reasonable reasoning must lead to a position. And then it's hard for me to realize that it's so easy to come up with the conclusions that it seems that the Workers' Party is on per. today. This is a debate that is taking place in many democratic countries, and we agree on that. But there are also many democratic countries where the rulers of different denominations would like to crush the press. What I may think is the worst part of this debate, is that you've tried to make it a little bit crooked that it's a law to protect the little man or the little woman. That's the exact opposite that would be the effect. It's the powers, the resources, you want to prevent the necessary searchlights from coming on. And then, of course, we have the regrettable fact that we agree that sometimes it leads to results that we don't want. I will continue to cling to Tom Thoresen's reasoning when he refers to the good intentions of the proposals. Then I want to take a variant of the old known thing, that the path to a bad suggestion is almost always paved with the best intentions, with the best intentions. Here we can afford, if we want, to wait for the Freedom of Speech Commission, and I think the proposers would have done themselves a great service if they had drawn this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e322	Jan Simonsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e325	SV mentioned the legislative proposal that we are dealing with today. Let me make it clear that what we are dealing with today is just a proposal to ask the government to design a bill with certain intentions. This must then be a consultation round, where the intentions must be at the bottom of the draft consultation. Then you have to take into account what comes from the Freedom of Speech Commission and the Hearing Opinions, and make a proposal with certain exceptions that are sent to the Stortinge for consideration. And then you take a position on the details when this comes back to Stortinget for assessment. Kvassheim was talking about strange construction. There is nothing else I suggested but that one could have a system in which one had to ask a court for permission to obtain a derogation from the general rule if one thought that the general interest should be given a name, as one has in Denmark. It works on the day, and it's not a problem. When it comes to the representative Hernæs, I see that he is flagging the interests of the press very high in this matter, and that is, of course, the simplest and the least courageous. Of course, making friends with the press can pay off. When the press rages, it's best to be a friend of the press.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e334	I agree with Mr Thoresen that it is important that we keep the debate alive. It is important that we constantly point to the border between privacy considerations and the free position of the press, on the one hand, in order to provide information to society. We have – as we also pointed out in the debate – until now had some setbacks, there is no need to hide, but not so many that we see the need to make legislation based on it. There's something about having a relationship with the media at this point. The ‘be careful’ poster is a poster that I have at least experienced that the press cares about, and that it is of importance. Whenever the media itself condemns each other, there is, as the representative of Kvassheim pointed out, a number of stronger judgments than other forms of reaction from what is otherwise suggested by this pulpit. I don't think anyone is flagging the interests of the press in this context. We're really talking about what benefits our society is, what's for the best. Now, I'm going to be careful to generalise and simplify, because there are difficult areas we're dealing with, there are border crossings here, but we're looking for a society that, on the one hand, is supposed to safeguard legal certainty, the privacy of the individual, and, on the other hand, to respect the media's obligation to provide information to society, so that if there are issues that governments or others want to keep hidden, the media can go out with these things. Here we have to trust the media until they show that they're not worthy of trust. I therefore believe that the easiest thing now would have been if the proposers had drawn up their proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e341	We have gradually had a fairly comprehensive debate – it is also beginning to become thorough – on the content of any ban and what will result from such a ban. This debate shows, among other things: The representative of Kvassheim was concerned that we are here in the situation that we are trying initially to make difficult balances and to solve problems through a single instrument and to observe a principle when there are very clear cross-cutting considerations. After the debate we have had, and which has gradually become quite nuanced, I would like to remind you that the starting point here is a proposal that the Stortinget asks the Government to propose the necessary legislative changes to ensure that the name and image of suspected, intentional or accused persons in criminal matters are not published. I think it's a far more blatant formulation than it would ever seem for it to be a majority in this Chamber when it comes to any future proposal. This debate has in itself been useful, and, although it has gradually gone over a little time, it has, after all, had its clear function. But it would have an even better function if it had resulted in the Workers' Party and the Advance Party doing the most sensible thing: drew the proposal – or else the second most sensible thing: proposed that the proposal be submitted. Because it is a little strange to get into the situation that what is formulated as a clear proposal is gradually referred to as a basis for discussion and something to help keep the debate going. Then at least it would be more natural with a shipment. Said in a slightly different way: when you heard the comments of the representative Thoresen, there were many reasonable judgements and considerations there, and a clear emphasis on important points in having a debate on these issues. The problem with regard to the proposal to be decided by the Storting is that the conclusion has been reached before the debate has taken place. Then the debate doesn't make the same sense.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e350	SV will not support the proposal put forward by the Labour Party and the Progress Party. But I need to take the floor, because I think that some of the vocals about the freedom of the press go over all the boots. I actually agree with Jan Simonsen in some of what he was in his post, namely, what is the driving force behind lubricating individuals? There are, of course, storage numbers and money. It's a fight that all newspapers and most TV media run every single day, and that makes the consideration of some individuals go their way. Now we have to think, we who are used to being in the media in some context, and who can go for a whole day – at least I can – and annoy us because we're mistaken, because a lookup got the wrong angle or something. Think of what happens to individuals who have not been mentioned in the newspaper since the birth announcement, when their entire privacy and their surroundings are invaded. The old grandmother can be interviewed, the neighbors can be interviewed – all the talk of them feels like a shock, I think, like a violent invasion. There should be no doubt about that. So the question is, what can you do to ensure greater respect for individuals who come into that kind of situation? Here, I think the feeling of overtramp, or what is perceived as an assault, applies most to people who have never been near the media before. Is this something you can legislate against, or is it such that we ultimately depend on the press's own ethical standard? We think it's the last one. But here's a lot of dilemmas. It's e.g. such that the extent to which the persons are lubricated does not have any limits, while the dementias are always terribly small. It's not related to each other. Perhaps you should consider whether there should be a certain relationship between the way a person is described, before and after. If there is money that is the driving force behind some innocents being lubricated, I think the size of the substitutes is what is the most effective means of action – the opposite way, because that is where it smacks. Here we should give a very clear signal, that in the case of this kind of invasion of individuals, the amount of compensation should be much higher than today – although we now actually have some examples of it becoming quite high – because I think that's what's going on. The last proposal is what Karin Andersen had to say: how can you make sure that the press itself has a high ethical standard on this? We think it could be that you legislate the editor's poster to underline the responsibility that actually exists. I think it is very important to get the debate over in this track: what works in relation to preventing individuals from feeling both invaded, harassed and raped – many experience it as a shock – when they are misrepresented in the press. I believe that some people who may at last be guilty of some of the things that say, should not be wild and lubricated in such a way that it is permissible to write everything and invade individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e359	Gunnar Kvassheim has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e362	I choose to interpret SV's leader, Kristin Halvorsen, so that she believes it can be documented that there are examples that the media have identified people in a way that has done great damage and that should not have happened. I agree. When she says that “all” newspapers have the drive – for that she said – to produce things like these so that a earns money on them and increases the circulation, it is an expression of an attitude towards the media that is far too unhealthy. It's also true that only a handful of media are dependent on loose sales. All media make such adjustments when discussing whether to identify a rapporteur, a borrower, a business stoppage. In most cases they don't, precisely because there's a consciousness and a standard around these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e369	Bjorn Hernæs has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e372	That's it, President. I just want to start from what Kristin Halvorsen said. I am pleased that she agrees with us in the form of the proposal. That she must then rely on a customary attack on a reasonable business operation, now she has her test – the greed of the money is what I am trying to refer to. What makes me say a few words is Kristin Halvorsen's, and first Karin Andersen's, the suggestion that the editor's poster should be legalized. You can consider all the suggestions, but it's a wonderful comment from SV that you think the ethical level in the press is getting better under compulsion. We have some debates in other contexts about the effects of coercion, as most people reject – you don't believe it. And if the press doesn't have the ethical level that it can handle the poster without a law firm, I don't think that way leads either.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e382	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1792]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e398	Asylum policy is a difficult matter. On the one hand, it is about showing respect and correctness to an international agency, and on the other hand, it is about respecting Norwegian legislation, and not least about showing respect and humanity to individuals in need. Just because the case has so many sensitive aspects and because it attracts so much attention among the Nordics most, it is in my opinion extremely important that the individual cases be dealt with carefully, logically and predictablely. These requirements cannot be said to be met when we in our country have more than 500 foreigners living in the country despite the final rejection of the asylum application. The cryptic wording ‘final rejection of asylum applications’ is in clear daily language that these people are illegally present in Norway. Forcing access to the country illegally is, not to be taken too hard, a less appropriate approach to integration into Norwegian society. This applies regardless of how unfair the decision must be to the person who has been rejected the application for asylum. It is also quite impossible to understand why so many people have been released illegally into the country. The Foreign Affairs Act provides authorities with comprehensive means of control to prevent illegal entry, with precise powers both in the case of border crossings, passports and visas. In addition, if the entry rules are not complied with, the law provides for wide powers of expulsion and expulsion. Police may even require passports and other travel documents from non-residents prior to entry into the country and it may be required for the master of ships and aeroplanes to check that the passenger has valid travel documents and identity. In addition, the authorities have extensive criminal provisions at their disposal for those who violate the provisions of the Foreign Affairs Act. No, it is not easy to understand why so many people can stay illegally in Norway year after year. In order to prevent new, similar situations from occurring, I propose, on behalf of the Right, to inculcate the rule of renunciation in cases where an asylum seeker is unable to show passports, visas or any other legal travel documents. Establishing the identity of asylum seekers who have been rejected is one of the many problems that we must also look at. An asylum seeker referred to in his report on 26 November last year came to Norway in the spring of 1993, i.e. almost six years ago. He has given three different nationalities under three different names. He now refers to the fact that more than two years have passed since he heard something from the Norwegian authorities. The Ministry of Justice, on the other hand, states that only a few months ago he was refused his application under the third name he has given to the Norwegian authorities. In my opinion, it is outrageous that people who claim to be in need can rock a ball in their hat with the Norwegian authorities in this way. The man is most responsible for the situation in which he has arisen. At the same reception, there are several persons who live in the sixth year without any clarification. This whole process – I'm tempted to call it wastefulness – is unworthy and burdensome for the relationship between the Nordics and asylum seekers. It undermines respect for the Norwegian authorities, and it undermines, to a maximum extent, a relationship of trust between the Nordics and asylum seekers. There seems to be no limit to the number of final rejections by an asylum seeker. The asylum seeker only refuses to accept the rejection and accuses it for the next time, and there is no limit to how many times a final rejection can be brought before the Ministry of Justice. The government should therefore clarify how many times a complaint can be filed, and how long it is possible to stay illegally in our country through this kind of trick. I am therefore promoting, on behalf of the Right, proposals accordingly. I would like to stress that for every one of us who insists on accessing Norway with false and/or illegal methods, we are at the same time closing down the opportunities we have to help others, who may be in real need. I then assume an acceptance that we do not believe that our small country can accept an unlimited number of refugees or asylum seekers. The problem of bringing the identity of the asylum seeker to justice is often reported as the reason why work is so difficult. Therefore, the work of producing the right identity of these people must be of the highest priority. Unfortunately, it turns out that we cannot rely on asylum seekers to cooperate honestly with Norwegian authorities. Despite the fact that Norway accepts that someone who has legal requirements for protection may have difficulties getting out of their country under his own identity, and that such a ‘forgery’ would not affect the assessment of the need for protection, people deliberately driving Norwegian authorities are thus getting out of the way. In such a situation, we have to put the technical means at our disposal. In Denmark, among other things: genetic testing, DNA tests, used to establish the identity of asylum seekers. It is especially in family reunification matters DNA tests can be a useful tool. The police know a number of cases where false family ties have been declared, so as to deceive the authorities. DNA tests, as a supplement to fingerprints and other methods, are, in my opinion, a method that we must be able to use in Norway without major counter-representations. I am therefore promoting proposals in accordance with this. In cases where asylum seekers come to Norway without a valid passport, visa or other legal travel documents, I believe that we need to make a much stronger rejection of the asylum seeker. We know of cases where an asylum seeker has destroyed his travel documents on board the plane or ship, and this is, in my opinion, a situation that should lead to expulsion from the kingdom. I accept that a person who is under persecution in his home country may be forced to obtain false documents in order to get through control in his home country – in other words, to present the false documents with a reason why they are false, to state his correct identity, and to allow DNA testing to prove that he is the one he claims to be. But I do not accept that he or she will not put the cards on the table upon arrival in Norway. In this statement I have so far failed to take up the costs of all the illegal stays in Norway, but in relation to all the distress that is in the world, I will not fail to mention that the more than 500 illegal stays in the country cost at least 50 million. kr per. years. This is money that could have been spent on people in need, on people who act honestly and honestly, and who therefore have at least as great a right to be prioritised into the Norwegian welfare community as those who come as thieves at night. Because there is an important point that it is a privilege to be granted residence and later perhaps citizenship of Norway. Therefore, we expect people with such intentions and desires to act honestly and legally and to a reasonable degree in accordance with Norwegian standards and legal rules. With this I will, on behalf of the Right, address the proposals that have been distributed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e432	Bjørn Hernæs has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e435	The representative, Bjørn Hernæs, here points to a serious problem that both this government and previous governments have had a lot of trouble with. Before I go into what the government is doing to solve the problem, I find it right to explain the situation a little bit more. It may seem strange that the foreign authorities do not have a full overview of the number of asylum seekers living in the country after a final decision. The starting point is that applicants who receive a final refusal should travel on a voluntary basis, as some do. However, applicants may leave the country voluntarily without reporting. Some asylum seekers go home, others go to other countries to seek asylum or stay there, while others just disappear from reception. All the time we don't have a check-out from the country, it's not possible to have an exact overview of how many applicants with final rejections are here. However, we have an overview of the number of asylum seekers with final rejections living in state reception. Per. On 30 November 1998 there were 265 persons with final refusals in state reception. The main groups came from Sri-Lanka, Croatia — East Slavonia — and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The latter group is now granted a residence permit in Norway. Applicants from these countries were probably 80 pst. by those with final rejection. In addition, some non-residents are outside the reception system, i.e. with relatives and friends. Some of these are not asylum seekers, but foreigners who have been expelled or have received final rejection of applications for other authorisations. Another group are the church asylantes. According to SOS Racism, 66 applicants from 27 countries were in church asylum per year. 5 December 1998. So what does the government do to solve the problem? There are many and complex reasons why so many applicants live in the country after they have finally received a negative decision. For some nationalities, due to the situation in the country of origin, returns may be impractical for periods. In such situations it is difficult to find short-term solutions. Here, a priority must be given to peacekeeping international work. When one ignores this group, the most important thing one can do, is to ensure the return of applicants who do not want to travel on a voluntary basis. A permanent and, if necessary, forced transport of final rejected applicants is also an important signal to other applicants without a need for protection that will not travel voluntarily. The largest group of final negative decisions which have been received by the State has been persons from Sri-Lanka. The problem here has, among other things, they have renounced their travel documents and have not been willing to obtain new valid travel documents for return to their country of origin. These include: against this background the Government of Ot.prp. No 17 for 1998-99 proposes to amend the Foreign Affairs Act, so that persons without travel documents are obliged to obtain travel documents if possible. After a thorough assessment of the situation in Sri-Lanka, like many other countries, we started returning people without travel documents in the autumn of 1998. So far, 25 people have been sent back, and we want to keep doing this. Our foreign attaché at Sri-Lanka reports, as expected, that the repatriations go without any major problems. For other nationalities, we have bigger problems. Some countries refuse to accept their own citizens even if their identity is confirmed. In cooperation with other countries, we are trying to exert pressure on these nations to meet their international obligations to accept their own citizens. Some Western countries have concluded return agreements in order to obtain the return of persons who have been refused. This can in turn create problems for other countries without similar agreements. In addition, we see it as, in principle, unacceptable to conclude agreements that require a country to pay to receive its own citizens. Such return agreements may, if they intervene, lead to a number of countries requiring counter-performance in order to meet their international obligations. Instead, we try to find practical arrangements for return where possible, and to encourage applicants to travel on a voluntary basis, including: by helping to improve the material situation of the home Member State. For example, Norway’s strong efforts to improve the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina can be mentioned. Another challenge is to get those who have gone to church asylum to realize that this is no solution because church asylum is not accepted as a legal system and therefore does not provide a basis for re-examination of the asylum application. We have the biggest problem in relation to applicants without travel documents who declare false identity and nationality. In particular, it is in relation to applicants from some countries in Africa and the Middle East that we are facing such problems. Establishing the right identity and nationality of applicants who refuse to cooperate in the preparation of their identity is often a time-consuming and resource-intensive process. The Government has therefore proposed to amend the Foreign Affairs Act in such a way that it is explicitly stated that, as long as the identity is not clarified, foreign residents are obliged to contribute to clarifying their own identity. In addition, the Government proposes clarification of the provision on access to house surveys and search where there are grounds for suspecting that foreigners are hiding information about their identity or details of their previous residence. I hope that these changes will help facilitate the work of the Police and Foreign Affairs Directorate on matters. In such cases, one depends on good and close cooperation between the police and the Foreign Affairs Directorate. In order to facilitate the identification of applicants, the Government is also committed to strengthening Nordic and international cooperation in such matters, including strengthening efforts to detect organised human smuggling. However, what we can do to prevent foreigners from seeking refuge in Norway without travel documents is limited. All applicants for asylum are entitled to have their application processed. Although we may have problems identifying applicants, we must not forget that many applicants for asylum provide the right identity, even though most people report without travel documents. The duration of proceedings is also important for the duration of residence in Norway. We find that a large number of applicants continue to provide information and requests for conversion, even after the ordinary appeal procedure has been completed. Some people also go to the legal system.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e464	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer and express my delight in at least recognising the seriousness of the problem. So maybe we can talk a little bit about whether the answers that the Council points to can give the desired result. I get a little thought when it comes to the conclusion of course, where the Council of State says that everyone who applies for asylum has a right to have their application processed. We know this, and that's not what we're discussing. We discuss what we do with those who, having tried all the appeals in the Kingdom of Norway, have their applications rejected and yet remain in Norway. And it may be strange, as the Council of State started with, that the foreign agencies don't have a full overview of how many asylum seekers this is. I think that's odd too. But I'm more concerned with the 500 that we know are here, and that's been here for up to six years. So if we could agree to concentrate our efforts on solutions around the identifiable problems, I think we'd come a little bit further. We know, for example. that there are 226 private asylum seekers – that is a wrong word, because they are not asylum seekers after their applications have been rejected, they are illegally residing in the Kingdom of Norway, but they are nevertheless receiving social assistance of NOK 2 500 per year. months. This is a problem that it must be possible to address and try to do something about. When the Council of State says that a ‘fixed and, if necessary, forced transport of final rejection applicants’ is an important signal to other applicants without any need for protection that will not travel voluntarily, I cannot agree more. Then I don't think it seems very unreasonable to prepare a plane or a boat and have some of them sent out that we have identified as illegal living in the Kingdom. I also want to comment very briefly on what the Council of State says about what is fundamentally unacceptable in concluding agreements that require a country to pay for its own citizens. I feel that this may have consequences, but I hope it does not mean that the Council of State with this wording rejects the possibility that we can help people in need in their own country. We must not be so concerned that a few will come to Norway, that we do not take inwards that we can help dozens of people in their own country and in their own neighbourhood, if we are willing to contribute funds beyond taking them into Norway, not to talk about letting them become illegal in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e475	I refer first to the good, principled assessment with which the representative Hernæs initiated his main intervention, which referred to the difficult balances that lie ahead in this matter. I appreciate it. Therefore, the starting point is that we view it as a serious problem in common, and that we should make the most possible to reduce the problem. There's the interpellant and the government perfectly clear on the line. So until the matters that the representative hereafter thought he had not received a good enough response. I said that anyone seeking asylum has a right to treatment. Yes, they do. It is obvious that even without a travel document there is a requirement for fair treatment. It was also the representative Hernæs inside his main post. It is not possible to create simple solutions to that problem, and that is what makes it difficult. Then the representative here says we have to focus on the people we know about, not the ones we don't know about. Yes, but this group is also quite different. Because it's obvious that if we can't get the country they're from, to accept them, even if we've identified them, we have a problem. Then it is not just to put them on board a ship or in an aeroplane, as the representative Hernæs says. But we're working on this, and we're a few of them saying we shouldn't reject the possibilities to help in our own countries. I'm going to do it to a large extent, and I'm going to give you an example of that. But at the same time, the government will warn us that we are kind of starting to deal with governments about taking back. Then we're in on a basically quite reprehensible track. But, on the other hand, to facilitate the possibility for those who travel home to emerge, possibly education and the like, there may be exciting perspectives that the Government does not reject. It's sad that a part of those who don't do what they're required to do, to get out of the country, costs a lot, but at the same time, there's a lot of people who are illegal here, who don't cost anything, so you can't just sum up that part. But of course, it is wrong that those who are here without law should in some way use our common means, which could be used for something else. I hope, however, that we can have a debate on this here which is as nuanced as the introduction to the representative Hernæs was.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e491	After hearing the inter-pellant's articles, I understand that the Right has already started its election campaign. I am nevertheless surprised that they are now trying to compete with the Progress Party to be the best in the class in this area, for my stable tip for that competition is that the Right has far too long and serious roots to beat the Advance Party in simplification and populism in this area. I am quite surprised when a Right-Man in this way turns around with light accounts and insinuates that everyone who is in the country after a refusal of a residence permit is here because they want to be dishonest, and that they take a right across our law. I had hoped that this big business would be saved. The interpellant only focused that these people are here because they are training their way home, and he used expressions like they are ‘forcing access to the country’. The interpellant forgets, obviously against better knowledge, that many are here because there are real obstacles in the way of repatriation. It may be that the Norwegian authorities consider that there is currently too much concern in the country of origin for a safe return journey, and then there must always be a judgement on the basis of which we should exercise caution. It may be that the home country refuses to accept the person, and then we need more activity from the Norwegian authorities to get it done. A job is already done, but here the activity may be even bigger to make agreements and get people returned. With regard to identity issues, as the Council of State pointed out, there is now an outright proposition in the Judicial Committee, where it is proposed to tighten up the duty of individuals to contribute to the detection of the correct identity. But in any case, there will always be someone who is temporary in the country because for real reasons we can't currently return them. And then we have to make sure that they do something reasonable while they're here. We had for some time a change in the law that allowed them to get a temporary work permit while they are here, but it has proved to be a bad practice. In practice, it takes too much time before such a work permit is granted, so that there are few who benefit from it. As far as the proposals are concerned, the Labour Party is looking at what is proposed in proposal No. 1, as a dangerous way to go. I assume that there are requests for conversion that you want to limit, and it may be dangerous, because it may be that it is only later in the process that you get documents that can be crucial to the outcome of the case. Then you should bet on sending them out while they wait for the decision, because it's not so interesting for people to search if they don't have any real reason to do it. [[The President clubs.]] The other two proposals I get back to either in the explanation of vote or in later articles.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e506	Unlike the Workers' Party spokeswoman, I'm going to try to relate to the world of reality. Norway and Europe face major challenges resulting from modern technological society. The worldwide mass media tells of the conditions in the developed parts of the world, and how well the social network is developed in the individual countries. This comes quickly to those parts of the world that don't have the same social arrangements in their own country. In many cases, relatively well-off people are the ones who are tempted and who come under cover as asylum seekers, among other things. Norway. They claim to be persecuted, harassed, tortured, politically persecuted, isolated in their own country, they don't know their country of origin, etc. The causes are innumerable, and lies are often presented in order to achieve asylum. The political system in some well-developed countries is itself responsible for the influx of non-residents because of the introduction of special schemes for foreigners. This also applies in particular to Norway. As a result, more people claim to be asylum seekers, but after further investigation they are often exposed as false asylum seekers. Despite these revelations, there are, however, well over 500 foreigners in Norway who have been refused their asylum application, and well over half of them still live in state reception. Many asylum seekers claim that they cannot move home, while the authorities are struggling to establish the correct identity because they are given false and different identities. All 80 pst. by asylum seekers coming to Norway, arrive with false travel and identity documents or come without papers because they have been discarded before arrival in the country. The party looks very seriously at the type of document fake that we recently addressed last week's question time. State Council Lilletun concluded that neither the Government could accept the document falsely. This means that false asylum seekers should be sent out of the country as soon as possible. One of the reactions of accused asylum seekers is to seek residence in church, better known as church asylum. Apart from the Progress Party, the majority in the Grand Duchy will not really end the church asylum. You do not want the Order to have the opportunity to enter the Church's room to pick up asylum seekers who have been refused their application and who should have actually been sent back. If you are long enough in church, you will finally be given a humanitarian residence by the Government, a system to which the majority of people have given their blessing. Right and other parties believe it is the congregations that must be responsible for those seeking residence in the churches or churches. But the responsibility must not lie with the churches. This makes visible the dual morality of the Right and Interpellant, because there is no consistency between the various cases dealing with asylum seekers. Instead, it is a matter of making arrangements in a Member State of law, without special arrangements for certain strong persons. Several asylum seekers are most responsible for the situation in which they end up when they declare several nationalities and secretaries of their country of origin. Often others are also accomplices in the fact that people come to the country without any identification papers. [[The President clubs.]] Finally, I would like to say that the Advance Party is of the opinion that it should be strengthened by the Government how many times it should be possible to appeal a final refusal to stay in the country for bodies such as the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e527	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e530	The representative Stag invited to the world of reality and a description of reality that he thought was correct. At least I don't want to stand behind that description of reality. It is, in my opinion, very colored by the personal views of the representative, Mr. Stang, on how the world should really be to agree with the views that Stang wanted to assert. I'll still limit myself. I think the interpellant has a good cause. He claims that there are more than 500 foreigners living in Norway after the final rejection of the asylum application, and he further states that ‘it prevents us from accepting refugees and asylum seekers with legitimate needs for protection’. So the representative, Hernæs, has a positive point. However, he promotes proposals that I do not think will help to resolve that situation. For proposal No 1, which is about to ask the Government to submit proposals for restrictions on the number of complaints, it is to say that today, according to the Administrative Act, you can complain once. So what you can do is ask for a decision to be rescinded. Such a request does not normally have suspensive effect unless new elements relevant to the case are introduced. As far as proposal No is concerned. 2, on making suggestions for a DNA register, I'm pushing violently. I am not sure if the representative Hernæs really believes that we should establish a DNA register of asylum seekers and foreigners coming to the country. I read the proposal as if it actually says it. I think that's such a powerful intervention in people's privacy that I'm not just stunned, but I'm going to withdraw something from the proposal. But using DNA tests to establish relationships between asylum seekers, I understand. With regard to the third proposal, which is on the intensification of the rule of renunciation, this applies, as the Council of State also said, often to a person who is an asylum seeker precisely because he or she has been deprived or has not given any passport, visa or other legal travel documents. The Council of State also stressed that he or she had to contribute to clarifying his or her own identity and that a tightening of the Foreign Affairs Act is now being introduced. That should be sufficient.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e546	"The world of reality" is, unfortunately, marked by increasing levels of nudity and misery. Africa – both north and south of the Sahara – is increasingly going down into chaos, in the Middle East it is as it has always been, in parts of Asia as well as now we see that the situation in Russia is also becoming very difficult for many, and the Balkans are still the Balkans. For all those who live in these areas, Europe appears to be Goshen – the foresgard of the kingdom of heaven, if not the kingdom of heaven itself. Getting there solves all the problems they're struggling with. Of course, there has been an enormous pressure to come from this ring of misery and to Europe. All possible means will be used. Smuggling man has been a great international business of the criminal kind. The Minister of the Interior in Bulgaria said, in a briefing to an international delegation not long ago, that trafficking in human beings and all the crime that followed it is now the most serious threat to Bulgaria’s stability. Traffic goes from Mideast and North Africa via Bulgaria to Europe. Here we sit and want to help, but our resources are limited. And the basic premise that it should be meaningful to help, is to make sure that the resources we can use for this, really benefit as many as possible of those who need it the most. To the extent that we let ourselves be fooled by charlatans and by smart people who come here on more or less false premises, we abuse the money, and they go to people who really don't need them. This is our fundamental problem, and all the naivety from the Norwegian side in this context causes resources to be misplaced. During the conflict in Bosnia, the Ministry of Local Affairs calculated that we could help 176 in the vicinity down there for the cost of taking one to Norway. I'm sure we can assume that you can help 200 people in Africa because that's what it costs to bring one here. That means that for every person who goes to Norway, there are 199 people down there who don't get any help at all. So if the one is a charlatan, then the whole thing is completely misunderstood. The big task for us, therefore, is to be very critical and caring in this situation with this huge pressure, so that the resources we can use really benefit them that need it the most. In this context, I found the proposals that the interpellant has made very good. After all, the DNA test has been introduced in Denmark, just to separate sharlatans from those who really need help. So I want to warn everyone who approaches this problem, saying that it's very good with a hot heart, but in this context, a cold brain is also most necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e559	I actually think that the representative Godal described the world a little more dramatically than I would have done, but in such a way that it really underscores what kind of self-interest the Norwegian people have in that it doesn't develop poverty and distress either in Russia or anywhere else, so it's a world with greater differences and more distress elsewhere, and we sit and hold on to ours and believe that we can do that. If we don't share with anyone, we can sit here in our castle. I can't! This can simply not be resolved at any time only with control over the Norwegian border. It has something to do with what kind of world is evolving. It is in our own interest that the violent fall in living standards that the Russians have experienced should not develop further, and that the turbocapitalism that now makes pensioners and others live quite tough lives should not develop further. So on the topic of the debate: Is this a major problem for Norway? Is it true that many hours of debate in Stortinget and the intensive search of wise brains for new proposals on how to streamline control? I don't think so, and I think this is one of the dilemmas that we actually have to live with. Firstly, I believe that the extent of the number of people who have been asylum seekers in the past and who are staying in Norway on an illegal basis is that Norway has a very strict asylum policy. That's what I think both the Right Party, the Advance Party and everyone else would say, because there's a lot of people who think we're much more liberal in Norway than what we are, and so there's a lot of false hopes about what kind of opportunities you have to stay. Secondly, I don't think it's the way the characteristic is, for example. false travel documents. We can't use it as a sign of whether it's a real or a fake asylum seeker, because that's the way people can get out of a country where they're under persecution, and into another country. These are difficult questions. Then, of course, there is a market for human trafficking – big business and criminals stand for it. That's also true. However, it is simply a matter of how far you should go in control and use of money to prevent the few people who come to Norway from staying here. When I hear stories about how eight policemen have followed two asylum seekers half the world, I think it's just bad resource use. I think it would have been effective to impose a time limit, as the Left and we in the SV have discussed earlier, namely that after a certain number of years people are allowed to stay in Norway, not on the grounds of asylum – because of the very few who achieve asylum in Norway – but stay on a humanitarian basis, and then they get to give something to Norwegian society at a much earlier time than what has happened in this country until now. [[The President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e570	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e573	We have to go into the ‘world of reality’, said the representative Jørn L. Stang, and that is a statement that you will always be able to share and agree with. But it has not been given that the world of reality is the way the Progress Party and the representative Stang claim it is. There was also an interesting deepening of the representative Halvorsen came with regard to the contributions of Ingvald Godals in terms of looking at the perspectives of this, and in essence I can subscribe to the views expressed by Kristin Halvorsen. If we look at the world of reality, one thing could be the information that people in the Third World get about the situation in our country and about countries in our part of the world, and it's probably not surprising that it has to be able to give someone the desire and the desire to travel here. But I think what clearly permeates the contributions of the representative Stang and the views of the Progress Party in a number of contexts is a lack of knowledge about the world of reality for the people who seek refuge in Norway. And it may be that some time — and perhaps not so rarely — the person who comes here has a situation in the home country that does not qualify as an asylum seeker, and for that matter also does not have to stay on a humanitarian basis. But I have very little desire to moralize those people who may consider their difficult situation in their home country to be a little more difficult than the Norwegian authorities find to be able to accept. I have no desire to moralize over it. Otherwise, I would like to express pleasure at the reference made by the representative Halvorsen to the joint proposal of the Left and SV of the previous period, which we will probably come back to later. So a few words to the three proposals that have been put forward by the representative hereafter. As regards proposal No: 1, in fact, the situation is that the number of complaints is limited. One can appeal once, and the decision of the Board of Appeal is final. But at the same time, there is access to make a request for a new assessment based on new information, and I do not think that this access should be restricted. New information may be available, including: on the development of the country to which they are to be sent. With regard to legal travel documents, it is strange what belief some people have in the fact that the person who is a true asylum seeker has at the same time the opportunity to carry legal documents and also the confidence that these persons are used to having public authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e586	Let me first thank the previous speakers for making a brilliant explanation that, in certain contexts in this political area, it is right to characterise the three governmental parties as boundless naïve. He also said that someday there might be someone who doesn't have coverage for really getting asylum. Actually, that's the general rule. Only 2-3 pst. by those who have come to Norway and applied for asylum and who have received asylum, have satisfied the requirements of the Geneva Convention. So it's actually not once or twice, it's the very large majority. So there are no limits to naivety. So the Council of State said that there was no need to deal with governments in connection with the return of asylum seekers who have been finally rejected, because it would be reprehensible. I wish the Council of State could say why. Why in the world are we not able to take on board, at government level, in relation to the countries to which we may give aid and aid, that, in return for what we are providing, those who have been finally rejected and, according to the Norwegian authorities' assessment, are of the nationality of the country in question? I would like to know why it is reprehensible. Denmark has concluded an agreement with Somalia. We should do the same thing as we said before. Why should our social legislation be such that, as the Council of State also confirms, those who live illegally in Norway, who have a known identity and a known residence, receive social assistance? I don't think the Norwegian people really understand why we're going to give social assistance to people who have a duty to leave the country. It would have been nice to get an answer to that. I noticed something this weekend, which surprised me. It was a Russian family that was taken out of church asylum, according to what the Council of State has said – at least I think the Council of State said it. Because the congregation did not want the family to be there, it was taken out of a church at the request of the congregation. Two days later we were told that they were in a new church. Why in the world were they not put on a plane after the police had picked them up, and why were they not under police supervision until they were sent out? There must be a failure on the part of the police. It would be interesting to know. So Ane Sofie Tömrås has said that Right as well as takes up the competition with the Progress Party. In that case, it's up to them to start copying our points of view, and that's what we think is glittering. It's not something we're unhappy about, we think it's very nice. But I notice that in this case, the representatives Hernæs and Godal do. I notice that Vice-Chaired Wage is not present, and he is known for a completely different policy than the policies of the two said gentlemen in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e599	The world is moving forward on the key issues of Norwegian immigration policy. If we take a little look at evolution and see what happened from the end of the 1980s until now, it's a dramatic change. Yes, the change is so dramatic that even the Right has dared to come up with a few initiatives on the discussion and debate we have on mass immigration to Norway. If you look at the population in Norway, which is 4.4 million, and look at the reception we have of people who get to stay on a humanitarian basis, who come in and get political asylum, there is a small proportion, but when we look at family reunions and the legislation we have in that area, the number of people is going to be large compared to the population. In the wake of the discussion and immigration policy conducted by the Norwegian authorities and the majority in this Chamber, we have also seen a dramatic development in terms of the increased crime that many of those who have come into our country stand for – those who were not supposed to be here in the first place, but who have been allowed by stupid politicians and governments to stay here on the wrong basis on the basis of the demands that we in the Progress Party will make. We agree that, according to the 1951 Geneva Convention, we have an obligation to accept real refugees and asylum seekers who need protection and help. However, because we see both in asylum recipients and elsewhere that many of those who have come in are responsible for criminal acts, we have proposed to the Stortinget that we should at least be leading were. We have to take an initiative that does not send out signals to all the corners of the world that those who come to Norway are safe stay, yes in a paradise that most people cannot dream of, because the system and the legal rules in Norway are such that one can appeal infinitely, which the representative Stang was also involved in his speech. And when the great crowd just before Christmas also opened up the possibility that the churches would again become the top appeal board after one had appealed to the Justice Department, yes, this becomes tragic. It becomes tragic because with the immigration policy we have, and with the many who have come to our country, the mosques may also be a haven for asylum seekers. And in terms of inventiveness to make money, whether it's human trafficking, drugs or anything else, this can be a lucrative industry for those who run in this field. So all in all, we are pleased that at least a few of the representatives in the Right have now moved a step further in this discussion, and have come to recognize that all the shellings they have used against the Progress Party in the last 15-20 years have fallen on rock.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e608	It may not have much to do with this debate, but I must say it is amazing that a party that has taken such an ambitious name as the Progress Party is almost nothing but the past. All the debate, especially against the Right, is based on what the Progress Party has said and what we have not said. What I think we might want to try to focus a little bit on now is how we're going to address the issues we have today, and try to get practical solutions to them. It is clear that when Ane Sofie Tömras tries to say that we are taking up competition with the Progress Party in asylum and immigration policy, it is difficult to see it as an expression other than a lack of both will and at least the ability to get into the Right on these issues. In a short interpellation debate, we can't go through it all, but those who are interested in the Right's positions here in relation to the Progress Party will probably have the greatest benefit of going through the debate we had about church asylum not long ago. That's where we found out, and one of them must be able to respect, especially in the case of principle, that we're looking at these things quite differently. But it does not prevent us, when we come to practical measures in the present, from fortunately having a good deal of parallel views. I would like to remind you that the interpellation debate I have been going on today is about how we treat people who no longer deserve the term asylum seekers, who do not have a humanitarian residence, who have gone through the entire Norwegian legal system, but who are still here, illegally. That is what we are discussing first and foremost. I even realize, as the Council of State said, the problem of sending them out again, among other things. the lack of countries willing to accept them. That is why, in particular, in order to prevent this from continuing to repeat itself, the proposals of the Right have been promoted in this context. Time runs, but let me also say that there is of course no difference in the view of Inge Wage and myself in these questions. It's a clean construction, and again an expression that you don't have so much to take on the right. I would like to say, perhaps especially to the representative Marthinsen, that according to the evening post, a refusal can be repeated. It says: ‘There is currently no limit to the number of ‘final rejection’ appeals pending before the Ministry of Justice.’ I think the word "thank you" is a little unlucky, but apart from that, that is the reality of the matter I think we should concentrate on, and that is what our proposal No. 1 is aimed at doing something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e626	I have some comments at the end of the debate, first a few answers to Mr Hagen. Why is it reprehensible to negotiate with governments? Well, it shouldn't be that there should be a negotiating question if a country accepts to accept its own citizens, as long as the identity can be established – then there must be an obligation. The fact that we are still going into constructive arrangements to facilitate those who move home is another matter, but it does not have to be such as to drive ‘blackmail’ when it comes to taking back those who are identified as citizens of a country. I think the representative Hagen and I are a few. So to social help and ask about it. There may be several reasons why some are not sent out, such as that a country will not accept them, that it is uncertain whether they can return home right now – I gave some reasons where it is in a way paradoxical, but yet naturally that they will not be sent home again even if there is a final decision on it – and then they must, of course, be given a rest of their lives while they are here. Those who are trying to get away will come in a different situation. When it comes to church asylum, it's not exactly as the representative Kleppe said, that the Government and the majority in the Stortinge have in a way given them the top appeal function. I said in my speech that it was not a legal factor, but that a looked at the church as a sacred room, which one should not intervene with, unless the church sound itself asks for it. Many people are talking about the "world of reality," and it is quite clear that we are going to be in the "world of reality". But when the representative Godal describes it so that when we have a wrong basis, it's 199 who don't get help, it's not that directly related. And I must say that I would like the willingness to provide assistance, the willingness to fight for more transfers to the third world, actually came in the debates on aid, and not primarily in debates on immigration. Is this a big problem for Norway, some have asked. Yes, it is clear that there is a problem in opinion. The fact that someone can in one way ‘surf’ is quite obvious a problem in relation to people’s perception of immigration and of asylum seekers in general. That is why we are going to take seriously the issue that has been raised here next, but we are going to be the ones in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e638	So the debate is on case No. 3 ended. [[Opinion on proposals, see page 1792]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e654	This winter has been especially marked by several tragic violence incidents. We are many who react with both anger and despair when we read and hear about it. Unfortunately, there is no hokuspocus that politicians can use to bring the violence to an end, even if some, especially a populist party, are trying to make it like this. But we must have a united offensive against violence, on many fronts. We need a more visible police force and a well-developed neighbourhood police force. We must have a faster response to violent people, and several of them must have a response. We must have stricter penalties, as a unanimous committee has said. Not least, we need preventive measures to prevent criminal acts from happening, and I can't exactly say that the budgetary agreement makes any good contribution to being able to do so. In addition, we have just dealt with a criminal health report, which hopefully outlines a criminal code that can more effectively prevent relapse. But what we don't have to forget about all this is that we have to make sure that we have an opportunity to expose the violence, because the precondition for giving a violent reaction is that the violence becomes visible. The most devastating thing we can do is let the rapists walk on in society without their acts of violence being dropped. We know that in today's legal society in Norway, the situation is such that many victims are unable to report what they have been exposed to, which means that very much of the violence is far from the ports of tabloidism, but is taking place in the hidden, unresponsive way. We know that it's about how victims are received when they come to the police, that it's about the ignorance of the victims about how they should behave when something has happened, about where they're going to turn. We know that it is about victims being tortured while they are waiting for the case to come up to the rapists, or that they are afraid to be tormented by those who have previously taken action against them. It is a matter of experiencing the trial as a great burden to the victim, and it is a matter of the victim being afraid of revenge from the perpetrators. The victim often has more than enough to deal with the assault, to go on in life, and they've heard stories about the trial, that it's a heavy burden that often experiences as much as the assault itself. If we cannot characterize the state as an abuser in violence, at least many victims perceive it as being on the side of the perpetrators. The size of the population tried to improve the situation of the victim in 1994. It was the first time in recent times that a government put the victim in the center and looked at different arrangements in our legal community with the victim's eyes and how through it we could strengthen the victim's position. This led to a number of legislative changes being made here in the United Kingdom and also to recommendations on a number of other measures. A joint committee said that this was just the first step, that we wanted to create a development that is moving towards society's reaction to a violent act being perceived as an uprising for the victim and not as a burden. Unfortunately, however, we look through feedback that the changes made in 1994 have not been followed up. It is displayed through newspaper headlines and through direct enquiries from victims. It seems that the court, police and department have not done so, as Stortinget asked when this proposition was dealt with. In addition, the committee said that this was just the first step at a development that we want, but the next steps we have unfortunately seen no indications. I hope that the Council of State can now at least give some answers to some of the things that this proposition travels, among other things. the functioning of reception in the police chamber when a victim of violence comes, in particular in moral matters. Have you been given greater emphasis at the Police College on providing insight into the victim's life and life? Have information been prepared at the police stations about community aid and support equipment and about the rights of victims of violence? What about the restraining order that was adopted? We know there's more violence in the homes than in the streets. Therefore, Stortinget decided that the police or the prosecution authority could impose a restraining order that was to enter into force immediately in order to protect women in particular. It turns out it's very little used. A survey conducted by TV2 a little over a year ago showed that a police district that Moss had used it some and twenty times over a year, while other police districts had not used it at all. The police districts that have applied a restraining order believe that it is a very good tool. What is the situation today? We made a number of changes to the aid law system – one would be given access to an aid lawyer in the event of several offences and always if the victim had suffered significant damage and needed a lawyer, regardless of the law that had been broken. Has it had an effect? Do we have more use of aid lawyers? It was also made the change that, as a general rule, the aid lawyer was to process the compensation case. Is it really being done? It might seem that it hasn't been followed up. In addition, the Committee asked for a more thorough review of the whole aid lawyer scheme to see if it could not be even better. We haven't seen anything more about it. In the case of information for the victim, a number of changes were made, including: the victim was told when the action was taken, and the content of the appeal decision. It was said that the victim would know when the trial came up. I have received several enquiries from victims who say that they never hear anything after the notification has been submitted. The trial of the judge was finally put into a proper system. It was outlined that there should be close cooperation between the court, police, health professionals and school to ensure the best possible questioning of children. Is it done? An advisory group was to be set up to provide new rules because this was a field with which we had little experience. Have we heard anything from that group? When it comes to the expulsion of the defendant during the trial when the victim is about to testify, I think it can work, at least from newspaper reports, as if the judges were sleeping in proportion to the opportunities they have. It was opened so that the defendant could appear even when there was a great burden for the victim that the defendant was there. This applies in particular to women in moral matters. But that also applies, for example. in cases of gang violence, which we have now had so many examples in Oslo, where the victim does not dare to stand up and meet in court. So the judge has full authority to expel him. It doesn't look like it's being done to any particular extent. In the case of compensation – and now I am talking about compensation from the perpetrator of violence to which he may be sentenced in the criminal proceedings – a unanimous committee said that a number of higher levels of compensation measurements are required because the compensation has not followed the overall price increase and development, nor has it followed developments in other countries. It may seem that it has not been followed up either. It was said a lot about the victims' fund, and it has been said a lot about it in retrospect – that the state compensation should be legalised and done through a fund. We have also waited a long time to hear something from the Government. It was decided to set up a centre of excellence against violence, which would assist in all these new measures and changes and conduct research, and which would initially work for four years. That's now four years ago. I can't say that's what we've heard most from. The free trial system, which also many victims depend on to be able to get into a court case at all, we've been working on and trying to do better for a long time, and we've said that we have to have a complete review of it. There are a lot of questions that arise when we put the victim in the center and see our legal community through the victim's eyes, and all these questions need a review. I hope for some answers now, but in an interpellation debate, it is limited how much a number are saying, and there is a lot we have been waiting a long time to investigate and do something about – such as the victim's fund, the legal aid system and the aid lawyer's system. Therefore, on behalf of the Workers' Party, I now propose that we receive a message that gathers all the threads around these questions to strengthen the victim's position, get a complete review of the entire area and want to get concrete proposals with legislative changes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e686	Will the representative address the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e689	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e694	Then Ane Sofie Tömrås has taken up his proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e697	It's an important field representative for Ane Sofie Tömrös, and I'm glad she initially also made it clear that there are no simple solutions. But the impatience shown by the representative is important. I'm going to try to answer the requests she had, and show that there's enough more to happen than that could be seen in the interpellant's articles. In Ot.prp. No 33 for 1993-94, the Government proposed to take advantage of the possibility of imposing a restraining order, based on Section 33 of the Criminal Act, as part of a criminal response. This was a follow-up to the Committee's proposal, which pointed out that the imposition of a restraining order should be used much more frequently. The Judicial Committee was established in Innst. O. No 39 for 1993-94, mainly for the Government's proposal, and considered that the scheme should be used more extensively. Paragraph 33 of the Penal Code was amended so that a visit ban could be imposed for more reasons than had been the case until then. The Judicial Committee also supported the proposal to prohibit a person from staying at a place or contacting a person without being part of a criminal law response. The purpose was to protect people who had particular reasons to believe that there is a high risk that they would be seriously plagued. In many cases, there would be a great need to put such a ban in place quickly, while at the same time ensuring legal certainty. The Judicial Committee therefore considered that it should be the court which had to take the final decision, but that the prosecution authority could take a preliminary decision, in accordance with that provision. Inner. O. No 39 for 1993-94. The home meal has been included in new Section 222(a) of the Criminal Procedures Act. However, this decision had to be brought before the court as soon as possible and within three days at the latest. The person who sought a restraining order would also be able to bring the decision before the court if the prosecution authority did not find to impose a restraining order. I assume that the prosecution authority will take advantage of the possibility of obtaining a ban on visits in the cases it considers necessary. Similarly, in cases where an aid lawyer has been appointed, it will have a better opportunity than before to influence the decision of the Court of Justice on a restraining order. However, there is no overall overview of the extent to which the ban is attempted or the number of cases used since Section 33 was amended. A number of other measures have been implemented and are in the process of strengthening the victim’s position. I want to mention information to offended people. In connection with the follow-up of Ot.prp. No 33 for 1993-94 is the victim's demand for information strengthened. A general information brochure, ‘From notification to judgment’, has been prepared and sent to the public authorities of the country. The brochure is primarily intended for victims of crime, but the general population will also benefit greatly. The brochure will be revised and updated in the current year. After Ot.prp. No 33 were addressed, all policy areas developed a small folder containing information on local institutions/organisations capable of providing direct and practical assistance to victims of violence in particular. The folder provides information on the telephone number and address of hospitals, medical services, emergency centres, Red Cross, etc. So something about the Center of Competence for Victim Work. The Judicial Committee was established in Innst. O. No 39 for 1993-94 to launch a pilot project with a centre of competence for victim work. The Centre, which was added to the Oslo College, was established and formally opened on 13 February 1996 in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs and the Ministry of Justice. The Centre has four entire posts. A management group for the centre has been established during the probationary period, which expires on 31 December 1999. The centre shall be evaluated. The evaluation is already under way and is expected to be completed during the first six months of this year. In the light of the evaluation, the cooperating departments will decide on how to continue, where appropriate, a system of centres of competence for victim work. The Ministry, in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, has launched the pilot scheme with the pilot project with advisory offices, where victims of crime may apply. The first office was opened in Haugesund in the fall of 1996. There have been five advisory offices operating. The offices have been set up in cooperation with the police in the city in question, as the police are an important partner in order to eliminate crime victims who need help and guidance on their own matter. Offices are managed by an Executive Director who has received training through seminars and guidance. Offices have limited opening time, but it varies with open both during the day and evening. The pilot project shall be evaluated this year. However, experience so far suggests a great need for such a first-line service for victims of crime. There are specific victims of violence and morality who have so far visited the offices. So a little bit about compensation for victims of violence. The Ministry of Justice shall administer the State system of compensation for victims of violence. The system of compensation for personal injury caused by criminal offences was established at kgl. Res. of 11 March 1976. It entered into force on 1 April 1976 and applies to damages caused by criminal offences committed after 1 January 1975. The upper limit for each individual claim is today NOK 200000. In 1997 30 872 555 kroner were paid in state compensation for the victims of violence. In 1999, the Government will launch a legislative process to legislate the State system for the compensation of victims of violence. In this context, it would be natural to look at the need for some regulatory changes, such as: to raise the ceiling of EUR 200000. IN NOW 1997: 11 is proposed to set up a crime victim fund, such as: shall finance the present State system of compensation for victims of violence and other measures to repair damages resulting from crime. The Fund is also intended to fund research on crime, victims and adverse effects. In the near future, the government will decide on the selection settings. School emulation is another area that is important in prevention, as requested by the interpellant. School emulation shall be a tool for both prevention and conflict resolution in schools. The mediation process gives students the opportunity to develop mutual understanding and respect. The students themselves have to negotiate binding solutions to the conflicts. A selection of students is selected as brokers and schools in conflict management and mediation. A two-year school mediation project has now been evaluated. The project has been considered very successful. Several schools and educational agencies want school mediation and have asked for help to get this started. The school-leaving project should therefore be continued and extended to include several schools. The project is a collaboration between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Education, Education and Research. The responsibility for the continuation has been delegated to the State Training Office in Oslo and Akershus, and the aim is that by 1 September 2000 one should have come much further both in primary and post-secondary school. So a little bit about conflict advice. The Councils of Conflict shall be an alternative to a traditional form of criminal law response and an offer to resolve other conflicts by ensuring a level playing field between the parties. The scheme is based on the Law of 15 March 1991 No. 3 and has been fully developed since 30 June 1994. The mediation meeting represents a positive opportunity for learning and the transfer of norms, which is important for young people. In the conciliation meeting, the perpetrators are confronted with their actions and are given a positive opportunity to settle. In violence, experience shows that both the perpetrators and the victim can profit from mediation. For violence, confrontation with the victim may become a strong and instructive meeting in which the consequences of his/her actions are clarified. For young people with a high learning potential, mediation by the conflict council could be a good tool for preventing recurrence. For the injured, mediation can be a good help in coping with feelings of anger, pain, anxiety and intrusion, which are often linked to having been subjected to violence. The conflict management system may indicate good results. The mediation meetings almost always end with the conclusion of an agreement between the parties. 90 pst. of the cases. The conflict management system was finalised in October 1996. The reports were consistently positive to the conflict management system, but made recommendations on future areas of action for the further development of the scheme. I will follow up the evaluation and present the results of this in an odelstingsproposition together with any proposals for changes. I want to come back to some points in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e748	Nothing would be more pleasant than if it were so that this proposition has been followed up to a greater extent than it might seem in everyday life. But I'm still questioning whether it really is that it's been followed up to the extent that it should have been, not least by how the victims themselves experience it. I'll take some points. In the case of the visit ban, the Council of State said that there was no overview of its use. Yes, then I will answer: Look and get it! So to the extent that the media have focused on this area, it turns out that there is a very big difference in the use of it between police districts. I don't think it's random that, for example. Moss police districts have used it to a great extent, and the prosecution authority at that chamber is run by a woman. I don't think it's the way you use the restraining order, for example. in Moss, but not in neighbouring towns in Eastfold. Here I think it's about the will to use it. And so the practice is that when it's used, it's also very effective. I would recommend the Department to get the overview, and if it is true that in some police districts it has not been used at all, something should be done about it in relation to the information on the instrument. As far as compensation is concerned, it is gratifying to hear that we are now returning to the Stortinget with proposals in connection with the Victim Fund. However, what about the ordinary compensation provided for in the criminal proceedings, which was affected in the public service proposal, where a unanimous committee pointed out that this level must rise, because it is shamefully low in Norway in relation to all other countries and in relation to developments elsewhere in the law on compensation. There it doesn't seem like anything has happened. Now I realized that the Council of State did not finish going through its «list», so I await his next comments on the remaining points, because I am also very interested to hear what overview you have of how the courts have taken note of what was adopted in connection with the proposition both in terms of the expulsion of the defendants during the trial, in terms of the use of the aid lawyer system and a future review of this system by the ministry, and not least in terms of the judicial hearing, how the new system works, whether the cooperation that was to take place between the court, the police, the health services and the school takes place.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e759	I said that in connection with this fund scheme and the notification to the Stortingen in relation to it, the level of the existing scheme will also be assessed. With regard to the ban, where we are asked to provide an overview, I remember how new these measures are. I agree that we need an overview, and we also need an overview of the other things in relation to the courts, but when you look at how soon since it is that this was adopted and used, it's clear that one has to let it work for a while before an evaluation. And I mentioned the evaluations that were going on. – So there is no disagreement between the Government and the representative. And if there are some of the courts that haven't started using a restraining order, there's clearly a reason to ask for it. This is a work that will clearly be done. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that a working group has been set up to investigate whether a project should be launched to test mediation as a voluntary offer in addition to punishment, also in more serious acts of violence than has been the subject of today's mediation in the conflict councils, based on the good experience. So a little bit about a violent alarm for people at risk. The Ministry of Justice is carrying out a pilot project in which persons exposed to threats of gross violence may receive a home alarm. It can be used to alert the police in threatening situations. The project was carried out in cooperation between the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of Justice. The Ministry of Justice is now responsible for the implementation of the project. Assessment of needs and allocation takes place through the local police. The system shall have a low entry threshold so that notification is not necessarily required in order to be given an alarm. Today there are more than 160 active alarms, and nearly 350 have or have had a violent alarm. 90 pst. by those who have been given an alarm, are women. The project runs until 1 January 2000 and will be evaluated by the Political Research Department. On the basis of the evaluation, the Ministry will decide whether to continue the scheme and how to do so. Experience so far suggests that this is a reasonable and effective preventive measure that increases the safety of vulnerable persons and reduces the use of violence against the holder who is exposed to threats. In accordance with the intentions of the Judicial Committee, education at the Police College has been reinforced in the field of the investigation of sexual abuse, especially against children. Further training at school is also strengthened. Regional weekly courses are conducted in such investigations. In addition, a three-week training course has been developed and implemented as a deeper education in the theme. At the Criminal Police Centre, a special tipping point competence has been developed in the investigation of sexual assaults. In this context, Kripos also has assistance tasks for other police districts.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e776	The invisible victims of violence — as some have described the situation of victims of violence. Although improvements have been made and there has been a number of years now to strengthen aid and support for victims of violence and crime, we should admit that we are still far from the goal. On the other hand, the 1988 description, in the mandate of the committee responsible for investigating the situation of offenders, may be comprehensive and, in many cases, insults are left to themselves. The fight against crime of violence must be given our utmost attention, both in order to prevent such acts and in order to hold the perpetrators responsible and to give responses on the part of society. But the attention has made it easy to stop there. We have been reminded of this lately, in serious acts of violence involving children and young people. The act of violence and the perpetrator of violence are at the center. In the flash we get insight into the fear and insecurity of the victims that violence has created, we see young people who do not dare quietly as witnesses, and, on the other hand, victims of moral abuse that do not reach the judicial system, and who are actually being discouraged from carrying out legal proceedings. Victims of violence are subjected to both physical and mental damage and stress. I'm not going to group victims here in terms of the type of violence; blind street violence, moral crimes or domestic violence. There are similarities, but also large differences in support needs. The important thing is to point out the need for the follow-up of individuals who are exposed to violence, that we must have an auxiliaries capable of assisting and supporting and guiding further where necessary. Assistance can range from immediate assistance to physical and mental damage, follow-up in the judiciary and compensation options. As in many other areas, there will be a need for cooperation between different agencies and bodies, including: police, justice, social and health services. Treatment of Ot. pp. No 33 for 1993-94 in 1994 strengthened the legal position of offenders in criminal proceedings. In addition, in the 1999 budget proposal, the Government has described a number of different projects and individual actions that are partially tested and partly permanently established to protect the rights of victims. It is now necessary to systematise knowledge, to pool experience from the test activities and to summarise the effects of past changes. So we need an overall review and discussion of a common effort and leadership for further work in relation to the victim of violence. The present proposal by the Workers' Party for a statement in a notification or in any other appropriate manner has been promoted in the interests of all individuals who are exposed to violence and still feel that they are left to themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e787	Usually we ask the question, what do we do with the criminal? I think it is good when the representative asked the question: What do we do for the victims of violence? Now the Council of State has also pointed out many measures in favour of victims of violence, and I am not going to repeat them here, but I would like to stress that it is important that we focus on the situation of victims of violence, because sometimes in the media it seems that the victims of violence are not sacrificed any thought by the Stortinget or by us who work in the justice sector in the Stortinget. What is it important for victims of violence to experience? Well, that's some natural things. It is important that the attacker is taken and punished. It is also important that the time between attack and judgment is as short as possible, so that you do not risk getting a feeling that what happened to me is not so important, it goes out in time. It is important to prevent something similar from happening again, so that you get a sense of being taken seriously as a victim of violence. It is important that victims of violence be given the necessary help based on the situation he or she has experienced, and in very many cases it is a woman. I also point out that the Ministry of Justice, together with the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, is working on an action plan against violence, which is particularly targeted at women in the private sector. It is important for victims of violence that the damage that has been done be replaced. At all, it is important for a person who has experienced either blind violence or violence of a different nature to have the sense of being taken seriously as a human being in this situation, and that the public sees that the victim is also important, not just the person who has committed the act.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e796	Like several others, I am pleased that victims of violence are finally on the agenda. I noticed both interpellant and Vidar Bjørnstad's description of all the violence in society, and that patience is now over, that it is important to be impatient. I agree with that. We are calling for action in relation to an odelstingsproposition with a subsequent adjustment from 1993 to 1994, and it is good to remember once again that it was very necessary and timely that we had a government in this country that could ensure that the Stortings’ decision was followed up in a proper and transparent manner. The working party had considerable opportunities to do so, but for some reason found some serenity compared to its current impatience. So it's good that we get the debate going now, and it's important that we talk about the situation in which the victims are. However, I believe that I will also use this opportunity to remember that without comparison the most important means of helping victims of violence is to take measures that lead to violence not taking place. It must not be that it is to help victims in themselves who are to be the main purpose. The main purpose is to use the means available to society to prevent violence from occurring. And we have to take in the fact that that's the criminal policy we've been pursuing in recent years, which is why we've had the violent explosion we've experienced. We may not discuss who is responsible for it, we may reasonably distribute it to some and all of us, but we must at least now be willing to take the consequence that the policy we have pursued in the area of crime in this country, let me say the last ten or twelve years, has failed. Therefore, it is necessary that we consider other measures. And there I would like it to be today, including from the interpellant, to give back a few signals about how the interpellant looks at the concrete measures against violence that Per-Kristian Foss, Kristin Krohn Devold and the undersigned have presented in a private bill, which the Committee is going to deal with. Of course, I am aware that we cannot take full committee treatment now in an interpellation debate, but a few signals of being willing to go into an effective fight against crime to stop the violence before it takes place could be interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e804	The right representative is quite right in saying that the most important thing is to prevent violence from occurring, but when he claims that all violence is a result of the criminal policy that has been pursued, I have to say that I think he is seriously evading the debate. It's just to remind the crazy thing that the most exciting thing in the field of entertainment that is now being offered to children and young people is violence, killing, ran and rape, and when someone calls for it soon to be possible to stop all this that poisons our heads, we get a completely meaningless debate about freedom of expression, such as. Taking away the video of violence from us takes freedom of expression from society. This is a complex problem; this we have to deal with more seriously than that. So to the matter. I am pleased that the interpellant has brought the matter up. It's a very important thing, and we need to get an overview of the whole thing. I think it is particularly important – I believe there is a broad consensus – that the situation of victims of violence is improving. Especially in relation to the legal instrument, which is the apparatus to provide assistance and assistance to the victim, but also in everyday life. I'm a little surprised by the Council of State's response, because it seems to me that part of what has been adopted has been sent out and leaflets have been made, but what kind of signals have you been given that you should actually apply the arrangements that have been adopted? When Stortinget decides that something should be started, it is assumed that it will be done, but if there is a lack of overview of whether this is done, I think there is reason to get such a complete overview. I also think you need to get a much better overview of the relationship between violence and violence at home if you're going to figure out how to tackle this. You talk a lot about problem kids a day, but there are actually a lot of people, and maybe more, problem adults. They may produce to a large extent problem children, and may have been the victims of problem adults in their time. This is also very important to get an overview of. SV wants to support and strengthen all the mechanisms that the interpellant addresses in its interpellance. In addition to that, we have great faith in arrangements such as conflict councils, where we are confronted with the one that has been violated differently. Such a meeting is strong and may perhaps be what breaks an unfortunate path. Not least there can be a arena where the offender can put things in place, and especially put the blame question in proper place. I think that too many victims of violence are what is important, and perhaps not the amount of compensation, sail if I know that many can be disabled and affected in such a way that it is also very important.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e819	The issue of violence is linked to a variety of issues. The question raised by the interpellant in this debate concerns one aspect, namely the treatment of the victim when a violent act has taken place, but it may also be natural to see it in a certain context with other issues of violence. It may be a bit symptomatic that when it is the victim's position to be dealt with, it is the party that otherwise speaks the highest in the violent debate, absent – the Progress Party does not seem to want to participate in this debate. One of the questions raised in the interpellation, which was not brought forward so much in the post, is the relationship between the notified and the unannounced violence. I guess there's a part that can talk about it being often overfocused on public violence, and perhaps becoming overdramatized, at least in terms of trends from one year to the next or from one period to another, while often less focussing on the unannounced violence, the one that takes place more in the hidden. Of course, there is a problem in this context that the violence can occur between people who are close to each other, and where the victim does not in fact rarely have a desire to have a close relationship even after the violence has taken place. There are dilemmas, and you might also have to have some respect for the fact that the victim doesn't always want to pursue the case. But at one point we are in the situation that our own rules give the perpetrator a strong position and the victim a very dependent position. Then I think about them, and it's almost always women, who come to Norway on the basis of a marriage, where the marriage itself is the basis of the residence permit. There can actually be in the situation that our own rules provide the basis for violence and continued violence. Otherwise, we might have to innovate that some of the dilemma here is that we are in a field of tension between the victim's concern and the fact that an investigation and a lawsuit will always have as their primary question to determine whether there is a blame or not on the part of the perpetrator. The purely human treatment I think is more important than you often focus on, and that's some of the things that are important in the interpellant's questions. Finally, I think we should also look at the limits of criminal policy. Not all questions relate to the victim’s situation that can be resolved in the context of a criminal policy. For this reason, Vidar Bjørnstad focused on the fact that we also need to include health and social issues. Follow-up by this apparatus is also an important aspect of the follow-up to victims of violence.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e830	The interpellant addresses a very important theme. It is alarming that violence is increasingly being resorted to to resolve conflicts between people. This applies either to conflicts that arise between strangers or to conflicts that arise in the home. I think we need to start looking at the causes of the growing problem of violence to a far greater extent. I believe that the representative Hernæs, as the representative Andersen also pointed out, looks at it a little too easily when he says that it is only the results of the crime policy that has been pursued in recent years, which is the cause of this development. Actually, I don't think the representative Hernæs believes that if he thinks about it a little bit. But there are likely to be significant changes in the issue of violence now that the Right Party and the Progress Party have got such a strong hand on the steering wheel of Norwegian policy, and are strongly contributing to the state budget we have, and the ones we will receive in the coming years. Behind each episode of violence, it's hiding a victim. Unfortunately, all too often the victim of blind and invisible violence turns his life upside down. I think there's reason to ask if as a society we do enough for the victim after he has been exposed to blind violence. I hope that the proposal of the interpellant and the Workers' Party will be supported, and that the Minister of Justice will come back with measures to strengthen the position of the victim of violence. But how do we as societies address issues such as: the invisible violence that exists in today's society? For the place where it is most dangerous for women to be, is not in Oslo center a late night hour, but in fact in many people's own home. In these values commissions, it should now be high time to focus more strongly on the invisible violence that affects so many women, where women too often receive no uproar or help. This, I think, should be given much greater attention by the Bondevik government, which is otherwise very concerned with the family and the values it represents. I believe it is particularly important that we strengthen the legal position of women and children, both through our law and, of course, through the work done by the police and the prosecution authority. We need to strengthen the auxiliaries, especially in view of the violence women are exposed to. Women need to be more confident that our legal system is working, so that women at all see a purpose in seeking help. It is important that there is a sense in the legal system that the victim has to count the most strongly. Women who are being assaulted must be taken seriously. And it is important that the Minister of Justice makes proposals aimed at strengthening the position of women. In my view, the information provided to the victim needs to be substantially strengthened and the right to access the file also needs to be much better.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e845	It was good to hear so many good speeches from all parties – except the Advance Party, as the Left's representative also said – and to hear that the consensus is so great in this Chamber among all serious parties that the victim's position needs to be strengthened. I'm just going to take a flash in the Right Representative, Hernæs, who made it like helping the victim and preventing crime was two contradictions. That's the inverse that's the case. Helping the victim, securing and strengthening the victim's situation, could just prevent the emergence of new crime. This could result in more people being afraid to report the case, and more violent people being stopped after their first act of violence, so that they do not proceed that way. In this way, we would not least be able to bring home violence to life, as Karita Bekkemelm Orheim also mentioned. This is, of course, part of an overall offensive to violence, which must be run on many fronts, and the private proposals of the Right-Representatives we will come back to later. The Council of State pointed out that the changes in the said proposition were made a short time ago, but then I would say that everything is relative. The legislative changes were adopted in the spring of 1994. Now it's about to get warmer in the weather, and then it's five years ago. I am aware that it takes time to implement legislative changes and measures in practice. But it is important to keep the matter warm. We need drivers to get practice in line with the legislator's wishes. In particular, it is important when implementing reforms in areas to which there is no significant status. This is such an area, because the victims are in a situation where they don't shout loudly and demand one and the other, as other groups in society do. The victims of crime very often have enough to deal with their lives and move on. Then, of course, it is the government's special responsibility, as the executive, to keep the matter warm and whip the bodies that are going to implement what the Storting has decided. We see all too often that when we come to the crossroads, there are different considerations than the consideration of the victim who is being stressed. That is why we are proposing today a message or another appropriate way, to which the Council of State itself can find out, which can gather all of these loose threads that we have discussed here today, and others that we have not moved into, in a review that sees the legal community and the auxiliaries on the part of the victim of crime. It is good that various evaluations are in progress and must continue. And we need to go further, bring together the measures, put the spotlight on the crime victim, carry out evaluations and make further proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e856	I allowed myself to use the term'short time ago'. It is obvious some time since the decisions were taken, but I am currently preparing an evaluation in another case, namely Reform 94, which was adopted in 1992-93, so in action, so evaluated, and we are coming back. So I think we're on the right track in relation to the usual, but I'm very much in agreement with the representative, Mr. Timerås, that it's necessary for the government to keep things warm, even if I'm somewhat doubtful about whether it's a good criminal policy to "pee" those who are going to work on the case. I might say that I'm a little bit more humane than the interpellant. But I am pleased that the representative, Mr Tömerås, has drawn this up in a very proper way so that we can work on it. That's one thing I'd like to mention that also the representative Tömrås was busy with, e.g., court hearing. In view of the requests made by the representative, Mr Tömrås, the Government adopted in October a new rule on the questioning and observation of judgments. I have to get into the action plan that the representative of Marthinsen also mentions. There we are, and on 15 February there is a large conference where the theme is drawn up on a broad basis with the participation of a number of women's organisations, crisis centres, victims of violence, police, prosecution, the research community and many others. This action plan against women in private spheres is to be completed before the summer. I thank the representative Hernæs for his good words and he thought we were doing well to implement what Stortinget has agreed. When it comes to the proposal of the representative, the Storting itself determines how this will be done. In any case, I can say that the Government is prepared to report back to the Storting how the various measures adopted in 1994 have been implemented. A set of evaluations is being performed to see how it works. We are also prepared to launch evaluations in those areas where one is not yet running, which the representative Mr Tömerås has pointed out here today, and come back to Stortinget in his own way with information on both the way it is going and the effects we see of the measures. I hope that in that way we will meet what is the wish of Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e867	That is when the debate is on case No. Four is over. [[Opinion on proposals, see page 1793]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e880	The cancellation goes to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e916	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odel Stingen meeting on 12 January 1999: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the necessary legislative changes to ensure that the name and image of suspected, intentional or accused persons in criminal proceedings are not published. In this context, equivalent rules for witnesses and insults should also be considered.’;» That will be a reason for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e924	I would just like to refer to my contribution on behalf of the Labour Party in the debate and ask the Labour Party to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e929	I would ask the honourable Members to vote against the proposal. The reason is that it is an eye-catchingly poor proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e934	It would be to introduce a whole new tradition if we were to base such a thing!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e937	I would recommend that the SV's group vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e942	Several have not asked for the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e955	During the debate Bjørn Hernæs has tabled three proposals on behalf of the Right: That will be a reason for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e960	As regards proposal No: 1, I would recommend that the representatives of the Workers' Party vote against it. As I was in the debate, we fear that it will intercept crucial documents. As regards proposal No: 2, I hope that the proposer will be able to turn it into a transmission proposal, because it is difficult to deal with this type of proposal over the table, and we know today that DNA testing occurs in some cases. It is possible that this system should be extended, but in the event of this, we need to have a more thorough assessment. Proposal No. 3 I also recommend that the representatives of the Workers' Party vote against. We believe that it is a dangerous way to go, where a fast can conflict with international conventions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e969	I would recommend that the representatives of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left vote against proposal No. 1 and 3. If proposal No 2 is converted into a transmission proposal, that's okay. If this is not done, I recommend that we also vote against proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e974	I recorded in the debate that Finn Kristian Marthinsen was both for and against DNA tests. When he now supports the request to convert it into a transmission proposal, of course I am happy to meet this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e979	I would recommend the SV's group to vote against the two remaining proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e984	Then we should be ready for voting. Proposal No. 2 from the Right has now been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government draw up proposals for a DNA registry to verify the identity of asylum seekers, for example in the fingerprint register’;» The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Proposals Nos. 1 and 3 from the Right are taken up for voting. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals for restrictions on the number of complaints which may be made in each asylum case.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to intensify the rule of renunciation from the State, in cases where an asylum seeker is unable to show passports, visas or any other legal travel documents’;
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e1016	In the course of the debate, Mr Tömerås has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to report in a notification or by any other appropriate means on the position and measures of the victim in order to strengthen it — including a review of the aid system, the victim’s fund and the legal aid system’;» Ane Sofie Tömerås – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e1023	In his last speech, the Minister of Justice, in particular, had strong promises that he would follow up on the proposal. He went even further and said that he would evaluate the areas and points that I took up in my interpellation, and come back to the Storting and report results and make suggestions in an appropriate way. I therefore trust that this means that the Council of State has also committed the Minister of Justice to it, and that you will return to the Stortinget, and I will withdraw the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-02.ana.ud2640e1028	Then there is no theme to vote on under case no. 4th@item: inlistbox That concludes voting.
