ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e26	The government's proposal for taxes and taxes is an increase of about 1,940 million. DKK for the year 2000. Under the agreement with the Workers' Party, the tax regime represents an increase of approximately 2300 million. kr. This corresponds to a real increase from 1999 to 2000 of about 0.7 pst., which is a moderate increase in relation to the development of the overall level of well-being. Within the framework of the Odelstinget pluralities, the Government has made its proposals, as the promise change settings show, by far. The changes following the budgetary agreement between the Centre Party and the Workers' Party are among others. the deduction for social security benefits up to the age of 18 has been passed on as today, but with an equal amount for all children under the age of 18 – as part of the Government’s proposal to introduce child allowances for 16- and 17-year-olds from 1 May 2000. Furthermore, unlike the government's proposal, tax reductions of about 550 million have been granted. kr by adjusting the entry point for the first step in the top tax to NOK 277 800 in classes 1 and NOK 329000 in class 2. In addition, proposals have been made for a second step in the top tax for revenues above NOK 762,700, which corresponds to an overall increase of approximately SEK 570 million. kr in force for the year 2000. Tax deductions on share saving will be cancelled. This means that the current commitment period for the AMS funds is continued for the income year 1999. The centre party believes it has been right to stimulate saving and motivate the value of increasing the supply of equity in business. It now seems that saving shares is well known for being profitable and that further tax incentives are less topical. If tax laws were to be the main reason for such saving, I would like to refer to the proposals for increasing minimum deductions both through a bet and through the right minimum threshold for wage income. In the case of taxation of business, minor changes have been made to the identification rules for cooperatives, and for those who are to be regarded as related entities for activities that are not to be subject to imputed income. Furthermore, changes have been made for all shareholders by reducing the rate of return on capital by 1 pst. This means that a greater proportion of the entrepreneurial and corporate income is brought forward for taxing as personal income. In the case of companies subject to division, this is a cumulative increase in tax collection by about 185 million. kr. With these changes and with the addition of minor adjustments to the reindeer tax, such as: includes a reduction in the right to deduct interest on debt, an increase in the tax on high capital and the introduction of a tax liability on foreign exchange gains, there is at this time a wide deal in the Odelstingen on taxation of both business and fleet layers. It is important that the different industries need stable working conditions. For the level of activity of the socket, the government has achieved a tax relief by reducing the CO2 charge by around 440 million. kr. The production fee has also been reduced in a number of fields and is about 300 million. kr next year. In the case of retirement pensions, the Government will have a say in increasing the limits of net tax-free income for both single and married couples. The government is also given multiple numbers to reduce the interest rate in the property supplement of the tax restriction rule from 3 to 2 pst. By increasing the taxation of wage earners with high incomes and by partially unintended adjustment in business, these revenues have been reallocated by facilitating wage earners' groups up to DKK 166 000 through the phasing-in of the wage deduction of DKK 30600. On the fee side, an additional electricity charge is an important environmental step and a step in following the principle of green tax credit. The pricing of electricity to a higher level can trigger the development of alternative energy carriers. The additional charge will be redeployed through compensation in the event of an increase in the minimum deduction, the deduction of persons and the facilitation of pension lists through the continuation of special deductions and the increase in the limits of tax-free income. Finally, I will refer to the case-speaker Tore Nordtun's thorough review of the case. With the changes we have made here, the Government has been impressed by the main features of the proposal for changes to the laws.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e58	Most of what we are debating today, we have actually had a final debate, because the main debate was known over two days a week ago. Let me just briefly mention a few things that have been important for SV. Our perspective when we go in and we're going to deal with taxes and taxes, is about two things in particular. One is that we want to redistribute, and the other is that we want a charging policy towards green taxes and green taxes, which you will see is in line with what is SV's policy. SV is not part of the budgetary agreement, but at the same time there are a few of the proposals we subsidiaryly want to support because they go in a direction that is more positive than the alternative. What is the starting point is that we need to redistribute income, and that is to overmeasure confirmed by the anti-dithering message provided by the Government. So to the concept of supersampling. We in SV have not called it Equalizing NORWAY, but Difference Norway, which has gradually become a concept. The weakness of the so-called 'balancing' message is a lack of action to reverse the developments that have occurred in the 1990s. There the differences have exploded, mainly for one reason, and that is that the share dividends and the realisation of shares have resulted in the 10 pst. The richest one sits with approx. 90 pst. of the relatively large value of the dividend. It's at the top of everything that's tax-free, and that's what makes you have an explosion. This means that one of the most important measures in the short-term notification is that like our two neighbouring countries, Sweden and Denmark, we receive tax on dividends on shares. This has also been promoted by SV in the setting. So far, it has not succeeded in getting a majority in favour of it, but I believe that when you see developments over the 1990s, and if it is also going to continue forward over the new century, more than SV will see that there are reasonable reasons for it to be introduced, and there are strong reasonable grounds for asking why the 10 pst. the richest will run away with such high tax-free dividends. What we're otherwise concerned about is that the shipping companies have to pay normal taxes. For us, it is completely incomprehensible that because an industry says that one has competition from abroad, it should be exempted from the ordinary tax system. Because you have strong enough lobby groups in your back, you have succeeded in establishing a tax office for some of Norway's richest companies. It will of course be fully possible over time for any Norwegian business that has competition from abroad, to say that foreign companies have a much easier tax than what we have in Norway, and in that way use it as a break-up bar to reduce our taxes and taxes. In this way, it is interesting to see the review carried out in the national budget, where it is shown that the Nordic countries are relatively similar, but that it is not reasonably possible to say that Norway has a tougher tax burden on business than others. What we've also been concerned about, and fortunately the agreement involves, is that we are now going to wind up the AMS system. In reality, the AMS has only been a reallocation of wealth, and for those who have wanted to place their money in shares, there has in any case been a favourable return, simply because shares over the last few years have had a better return than alternative saving, and there are no reasonable grounds for providing a tax subsidy for it. In terms of taxes on income and wealth, SV has as its main concern that we also want to introduce a new step in the top tax. And you do that in the equation, and we're happy about that. We had, however, wanted the entry point to be a little lower, and also with a significantly higher bottom subtraction. In the Swedish tax system, we want a deduction up to 25 pst., 43 000 kroner as a maximum, while at the same time the entry point for the top tax is 10 G. It would have led to a very correct redistribution of income, so that those who have the most, also contribute the most, while those who have the lowest income, had received a significant deduction. SV will subsidize what is in the budget agreement. The model that SV has, had given tax relief to a much larger group than to what is in the agreement, but of course it's better than nothing. SV wants a new step to be introduced into the wealth tax, so that those with the most important assets will contribute more. Now I see that the trend here among some parties is to liquidate the property tax. They say that the property tax is a strange tax. I know the right-hand side well enough to know that at any time they will find a tax that they think is completely unreasonable and strange, and in that way, the shot at it and over time may actually unfortunately also succeed in getting it removed. I hope not, because the property tax is an important tax on redistributed wealth, and therefore SV wants it to be actively used. As far as child welfare is concerned, there has been a great debate on it. SV has also wanted the child benefit to be extended to 18 years, but we are opposed to the removal of the care allowance. What we're doing is we're expanding the child's health, but at the same time we're not expanding the bets. We also want those between the ages of 16 and 18 to have child welfare. One thing that we stand alone in today's position is the deduction of gifts to non-governmental organisations. It was previously a union deduction of 1800 kroner. It has now been reduced to DKK 900, and it can be reduced by documentation to give to large humanitarian organisations. SV has been against this conversion, we believe it has been right to give a deduction of the trade union quota and the food quota, we have considered that it was not right that a deduction should be made by giving to non-governmental organisations. This would be unfortunate because we believe that people who want to give should not give because they find a subsidy element in the tax system, but simply because they want to give to organisations they support. This may also well be a threat to the large organisations that are now going to leave most of the voluntary contributions and that the small sports teams and small organisations that are struggling most financially will not be able to benefit from the scheme. We're unfortunately alone about it, and it's also part of a deal from last year between the Right and the Government that's being followed up here. Another thing that is unfortunate in this budget is that the majority are in favour of providing tax relief for oil companies through the CO2 tax, and that is a very unfortunate signal. Looking at the CO2 emissions from Norwegian cap compared to any other oil producing country, one will see that because of our charging system, we have succeeded in reducing CO2 emissions. We have had an incentive in the form of a tax that means that companies are trying to bring emissions down. That's what you've done. So what we have here is that we want to make it easier for companies to pay the CO2 tax in some kind of naive hope that it will help to increase the activity of the supplier industry. It is in itself a matter of thinking that oil companies should be given tax relief because they will then place more orders at the Norwegian yard in the next round. To address measures to Norwegian shipyards and suppliers, it is, of course, necessary to target the industry concerned rather than the oil companies. The paradox is great when you think that when the first signals were given from Stortinget that you wanted to pay off – that was last year – the oil price was one third of what it is today. Today, we have an oil price of $17-18 higher than when the state budget was adopted last winter, and it is about $18. 10 dollars above what it was in the summer, when the bulk of the population started going in this direction. I think this is a very unfortunate signal. In particular, given that the Government has wanted – and will to – that green tax policy should in a way be a fanatic, it is a pity to see that this type of tax relief is chosen. The only thing that results is, of course, that companies have to pay less taxes. This brief review of the SV's various proposals, I think, is basically sufficient. Our main model is, as I said, redistribution and green tax policy. There are two perspectives that point to the new century, two perspectives for a solidarity, green and sustainable fiscal policy. I would like to include the various suggestions, which are in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e92	The representative of Øystein Djupedal has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e95	Odelstingen is currently dealing with the legal issues in the tax system for 2000. In the context of the budget for the coming years, the Government has made specific proposals for changes to tax legislation. Tax legislation is a piece of legislation that needs to be adapted in particular to the changes that are taking place in society at all times and, for this reason, there is a need to constantly amend legislation in this area. Some of the suggestions made by the Government in its proposal involve only minor adjustments to the tax and tax rules. Other proposals should be expected to have a greater impact on those affected. Most of the proposals in the Government's proposal have been endorsed by a unanimous financial committee. Nevertheless, in areas where there is no unanimity within the Financial Committee, there is widespread support for the Government's proposals. This is joyous. Of all the proposals made by the Government in its proposal, it is only the proposal to liquidate the tax deduction of dependants that will not be adopted. In this area it follows from the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Workers' Party that the system of tax deduction of dependants is continued, but with some simplifications in relation to current legislation. I am very pleased with the budget agreement between the government parties and the Workers' Party. The agreement resulted in a majority in the Financial Committee proposing some legislative amendments not mentioned in the Government’s proposal. Some of these legislative changes mean that they are mitigated for the unintended effects of the legislation and can therefore be characterised as sealing holes that prevent the legislation from functioning as intended. This applies to some changes in the special company tax and to changes in the so-called identification rules of the split model. The tightening of the identification rules in the divisional model will only apply in so-called liberal professions, and I am pleased that the small and medium-sized manufacturing companies are thus protected. Because of the broad majority of the Government's many proposals in the proposal, I am not going to mention any of the individual proposals here. In two areas, however, the number of committees has made comments that prompt a more detailed comment from me. First, this applies to a majority comment made in connection with the Government’s proposal for rules on the right of deduction for gifts to certain non-governmental organisations. The proposal for a deduction scheme for gifts to certain non-governmental organisations limits the scheme to organisations which have 3000 or more members. The majority of the Committee on Finance asks the Ministry to assess, in the context of the revised national budget, whether requirements for a certain number of teams or groups are to be treated as equivalent to the requirement for at least 3000 members. The Ministry of Finance is already working on the issue, and I intend to address this, for example. when consulting the regulation of the tax law § 6-50, and returning an assessment and, where appropriate, proposals at the latest in the revised national budget for spring. The majority of the finance committee further asks the Ministry to consider whether the scheme should also include organisations operating cultural protection. I also aim to return to this issue in the revised national budget. The second issue concerns the investigation into the petroleum tax system. On 22 October 1999, the Government appointed an expert committee to investigate the petroleum tax system. The majority of the Committee emphasises the need for such a review of this tax system and asks the Government to submit to the Storting its assessments and proposals for amendments by 1 November 2000. I refer to the fact that such a timeframe may be a button, depending on what changes might be relevant in the case. But of course I will follow up the committee's request as far as it can be done.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e121	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 5 and 6 are processed as a whole – and count as agreed. [[Footing, see page 114]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e146	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Representative Steinar Bastisen 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers for each party group and from members of the Government. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e157	There are two long-term issues we're going to deal with today. One is about sponsorship on television, and is essentially the establishment of a clearer regulation and a stronger distinction between sponsorship and advertising. There will also be a better regulation for sponsorship in the NRC. The second issue is essentially a clarification of the division of roles between the different forums after the conversion of the NRC into a limited liability company. In addition, there is an explanation of the different roles and opportunities of the NRK in the new TV reality that we are already seeing coming. First to the sponsorship rules: the primary feature of the majority has been the establishment of a system that clearly distinguishes between sponsorship and advertising as two widely different ways of financing, one going to operation and the other going to production, roughly simplified. Of course, it's not as easy for viewers to separate this. That's why it's good that we now also establish a clearer distinction, so that it might appear a little bit different. The government proposed some changes where it may not have appeared as clearly, for example: because the proposal would have resulted in a distinction between sponsorship in commercial companies and sponsorship in non-commercial companies. Now we get a very clear code, which will also be easier to control. It will also mean that viewers will perceive a stronger distinction, although I think it will not be crucial for the audience's attitude to sponsorship. In fact, I see it as a clear advantage that the audience is so critical and aware of this, and that is one of the reasons why we choose to keep the clear visibility of the sponsors as we do. On the other hand, it is not the majority's wish that sponsorship should be allowed to evolve so that the transition to advertising becomes more and more diffuse. It may also result in sponsorship being used to circumvent the advertising legislation, but today’s decisions put an end to it. The rules for the NRK are also getting clearer and easier to deal with. Some countries have much better experience in regulating by programme types over the limits of amounts. What has left me in the impact work that has been done to us is that the new legislation is supposed to cause TV 2 to lose all its sponsorship, while it will increase in the NRK. Of course, it is not a matter of concern, but it is a matter of confirming that the new legislation will not bring about the substantial changes in the volume of sponsorship, but will help to slow down the unearthed sponsorship. The second proposal is in the context of the business activities of the NRC. With the developments we have, among other things: in rights and costs relating to programmes, it is difficult to imagine that the NRC should be able to keep the same good quality offer to the public in the future if no change occurs. It's going to be a cost question first and foremost. I don't think it's possible to use the license to both maintain NRK's business and at the same time develop new offers as a result of the developments we see in digitisation. Therefore, the NRK must be given the opportunity to raise revenue in other areas. What is very clear, on the other hand, is that the offer given today should be free of advertising. It is the NRK's great force in today's competition, and it should not be rocked. Therefore, when using the traditional public broadcasting offer, the audience is not exposed to any more advertising. On the other hand, it is entirely unreasonable for Norwegian licensees to be involved in and pay for the development of new offers such as: is directed against the North and its descendants abroad. It must be possible to finance it in other ways. It is very clear that the NRK cannot create offers with advertising sent here in the country. So for the audience, this will not lead to changes, but will allow them to receive the same high quality offer in the future. In many ways, this is to give the NRK the opportunity to go into areas where value creation takes place as a result of television, and to ensure that this money does not end up in private pockets, but gives people a better offer on the screen. That's about the opposite strategy of what we're currently looking at, for example. TV 2, but this is completely in line with what happens in e.g. BBC. Two other things have also been treated in the setting. The first is an attempt at replay by the department when it comes to showing movies in movie clubs, and it's a little about how to watch movies, at least it does it for me. The majority of the population have previously been very clear that film is a work of art, it's a work of art, and then there have to be arenas where this can be presented as a work of art, and not just as a commercial product. It's been years since we stopped censoring paintings, books and other copyrights, but still hangs this in the film. I think that is a good thing in relation to a commercial display. On the other hand, it's basically a little bit suspicious when it comes to viewing movies like a miracle. Here the majority chooses to stand firm at previous positions, and then it will be up to the ministry to find a solution to the problem. The policy is very clear. It must then be possible to find the correct words in the legal text that ensure that policy can also be implemented, and then come back to the Stortinget on that matter. So there's been a strange case about a previous decision in Stortinget. When we treated radio reports, no one went in the majority to keep the practice that was, while a minority – including me – would have radical changes. The paradox was that the minority in the committee had a majority in the Grand Hall. Thus, the minority in the Committee had to promote it as a proposal to express their views since they had a majority in the Grand Chamber. Of course, it had to be seen in the context of the way it was treated, and the comments that were written, or the preparatorys, as it is called. In retrospect, a case appeared, first at the Jären Mission Radio, and then by another radio, where we discovered that the department began to use the decision in the setting and did not see it in connection with the majority's intention. So it was completely wrong. The end of the show was that they started to take time from some radios. It was quite clear that it was not the wish of the majority, and it was clearly contrary to what was in the original position. Today, a new decision is taken to ensure that this does not continue, but that the real intention of the majority is followed at the time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e191	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e194	Yes, seeing the difference between advertising and sponsorship is not that good, we all agree on that. What I do, among other things, has noticed that the representative is Alstad’s opinion that the licence is essentially a luxury tax for having a TV. Is the Workers' Party still of the opinion that it is luxury to have TV, something more or less everyone has and must have? The Progress Party also notes that the Workers' Party's old banner that half of the sponsors should be public is now being lost. How does the Workers' Party react to this reverse operation?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e203	One might expect those who work with it to see a clearer difference between advertising and sponsorship on television than the public in general does. At least I don't have a problem yet to see the difference, and even clearer it will be when we have got through today's case. As far as the licence is concerned, the starting point of the Workers' Party is that there is still a tax on TV. That was the background for its introduction, that is the background for its continued existence, and that is the background for its adoption each year. So simple is probably the background for the license. When it comes to half of the sponsors being public, it's so good that it disappears. It was actually a compromise from the first time we introduced a sponsorship restriction. The citizens were very concerned about getting a reduction in the amount, which the Workers' Party was not so concerned about. However, that amount limit would be set at 0.5 pst. of the income of the NRK, for it was the NRK. I guess that's why you were so lucky to have the amount limit imposed on 1 pst. Also. Then it was okay for us in the Workers' Party to say that the NRK's situation at the time was that about half came from more public bodies, while the other half came from business. That was the background for that. Today the world is changing, and then it's okay to follow the path and take it into account when we develop a new policy, and that's the main reason why we're now getting new sponsorship rules. At that time the code was created because you felt that the NRK did not take sponsorship properly seriously and had a good relationship with sponsorship. It's safer today, and you want a clearer code. The Swedish legislation, which in many ways is similar to what we are introducing today, has worked very well. The paradox is that in Sweden there are no politicians who bother to care about sponsorship at all.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e214	There is not much in the posts of the representative Alstad that I am responding to. It's basically just one thing, and it goes on this by allowing violence in film club contexts. I am surprised that the majority of Stortinget, as indicated by the representative of Alstad, may oblige the Ministry to introduce derogations from a law which does not provide for exceptions in regulations. Neither the penal code § 382 nor the film and videogram law provides for such exceptions. And I'm even more surprised that you'll be able to remove any limit to what's legal in terms of public violence, if it happens in film clubs or other non-commercial contexts. The incomprehensible thing is that what violates the law when displayed in a cinema hall with paid entrance tickets is defined as copyright or art and is thus more lawful if it appears in a film club, where membership cards have been redeemed in advance or even can be resolved at the entrance door. Then it's allowed. So far, it has been prohibited under criminal law. So the representative says Alstad that censorship of other art performances, such as visual art, has been abolished. But does the representative Alstad see differences in pictures, such as television and visual arts? For many years, we've been running an action against violence in the media. With the growing wave of violence we've seen lately, is it good media policy to do this act that the majority here suggests?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e223	It is good that I get Ola T. Borrow to react a little, then. I am grateful for being credited with the decision that will be made here today. I don't think that's a backside in that way. The representative Lånk spoke about introducing exceptional rules. When we last investigated the penal code, the majority changed the definitions in this paragraph of the penal code, and the majority was very clear that this should not have the consequences that the Film Club Association had given us. We wrote it in, and we hoped that you could take a majority opinion and come back with a clear code, also in relation to what is stated that this decision will remove any limit. Then you had an opportunity to come back with a flexible solution in the light of the comments that were written there, and then you could have presented us with a scheme that carried out what was the wishes of the majority. I spent a lot of time clarifying the last time we dealt with the penal code, because I probably got about the same line from the representative that time too. Instead, we must now do this in the form of decisions and then have the opportunity to come back to it. There's no new problem, it's been well known. We had already had the opportunity at the audit, if it had been mentioned as the problem at the time, to put in such a regulatory home. Instead, it should now be expected that the Department will come back to the matter, where one can possibly find a solution to the challenges that Stortinget wants, because we know what we want politically. It is not the words, the use of words in the penal code, which in this way will put obstacles in order to achieve that policy. Then ask the representative Lånker if I see differences in television and visual arts. I see that as a very clear difference, but I also recognize film as a work of art, in line with art and books. I think maybe the representative Lånker should have a more principled relationship with that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e234	I could start by asking Mr Alstad the question of whether he sees the difference between slide show and television, because when the majority has now reached non-discrimination between the NRK and the commercial channels, contrary to the Ministry's proposal – in so far as also contrary to what the Right has proposed – it has ended up with a variant where there are supposed to be so-called non-movable images to identify the sponsor. I expect many of those who are not in the room now, will soon turn over on TV 2 and watch the handball World Cup, where it is sponsor. There are moving images related to sponsor identification. So this is now being banned, by the majority's decision. When Alstad makes it a point that TV 2 is probably exaggerating the importance of this possibility being lost, I think it's very good to refer to the department itself writing, that the department is also afraid that the commercial channels will lose a significant share of their revenues linked to the sponsor, when non-movable images are introduced. Then there's one thing the representative Alstad wasn't in his post at all. I understand that, because it is clearly something that is to be overlooked in silence. But it's a historic day today; the NRK is given the opportunity to start advertising on text TV. I believe that this is the first serious breach of the NRK's general broadcasting profile, where one could now risk being welcomed to the NRK and Coca-Colas text TV pages. That will be the reality of the decision that is now being taken, and I ask the representative Alstad if he sees that this will help undermine the legitimacy of the Norwegian people for licensing payments. If the Norwegian people are now sitting on a text TV on the NRK, all forms of advertising are at risk, except for what the Ministry of Children and Family has warned against, namely advertising against children. But NRK's text TV can be a full commercial service, and I believe that it is still an integral part of the public broadcasting offer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e241	The representative of Greece is trying to make it a point that there's a slide show we're inviting to, and challenges me if I see a difference on a slide show and television. Of course I do. The point of the sponsorship regulation we are now making is that viewers should have the opportunity to identify the sponsor, and even have the opportunity to see if the programme bears the impact of the sponsor or not – nothing else. That's why there's no point in getting moving images when we finally managed to end up with a majority of non-moving images. The whole purpose of the legislation must be to have equal treatment. And for the audience, I think it actually makes a difference. I think sponsorship hereafter will be less pressing than what you have been able to experience so far, not least in the reader's letter columns, as the audience's reaction. Then the representative said that I have apparently said that TV 2 exaggerates the wallpaper. No, what I said was that it has struck me that the new regulation should apparently lead to TV 2 losing all its sponsorship, while it is claimed from the same team that it will increase for the NRK. It's a paradox. That gives me reason to believe that at least there must be one of the parts that are considerably exaggerated, because it cannot happen at the same time. In the case of text TV, the representative of Greece is well aware of the developments that are taking place, with an integration between different media. We don't want to prevent the NRK from participating in that development, so we want to open up the possibility of advertising on text TV. If the representative of Greece believes that tomorrow – after the decision has been taken – he will experience seeing a Coca-Cola advertisement on NRK's text TV, I think he will be somewhat disappointed in the next two or three years.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e250	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e254	Ot. pp. No 55, On the Act amending Law No 4 December 1992 127 on broadcasting and 15 May 1987 No 21 on film and videogram, is an important thing that clarifies the framework of the future business activities of Norwegian national broadcasting AS. It determines the law of the NRC whether they have the ability to engage in different commercial companies. Secondly, the objective of the case is to clarify whether the NRK should be able to engage in business activities other than those of the company currently operating. Under today's rules, the NRK may not engage in business activities other than those related to public broadcasting. The Ministry wishes to strengthen the role of the NRK as the central public broadcaster in Norway, with submission. The NRK has been organized as a 100 pst. State-owned limited liability company since 30 April 1996. When you did this, it was an overall media policy task to ensure the NRK good framework conditions. The background for this was precisely the desire to strengthen the framework conditions for public broadcasting in Norway. At the same time, the Ministry underlined the need to ‘ensure that decisions of major media policy importance will continue to be subject to political treatment and control in the future. ‘... The business activities of the NRK are currently largely run by the wholly-owned subsidiary NRK Assetum AS. Under the law in force, the NRK’s ability to conduct business is limited to public broadcasting purposes. There is a general trend in Europe that public broadcasters are given the opportunity to engage in business relations. In our neighbouring countries, we also see this development. The development of the broadcasting sector requires clarification of the role of the NRK as a broadcaster in the new media landscape. The business frameworks that will be used for the NRC will be crucial for how the NRC can fulfil its role as a public broadcaster in the future. Technological developments generally point to a shift towards digital production and distribution of radio and television. Digital broadcasting will be able to make much better use of the capacity, while giving rise to more channels and new services. It will also be possible to transport several different services on the same network. At present there is strong competition both nationally and not least internationally for broadcasting rights. The media industry today is characterised by rapid structural changes with international biases. This involves alliances and acquisitions, while at the same time speeding up the development of new technologies. In the view of the Ministry, the NRK is likely to land on the sideline unless the NRK can quickly position itself directly in relation to the commercial media world. The Ministry considers that the NRK through its subsidiary should be given the opportunity to engage in business activities similar to those of its competitors, while the NRK’s general programme offers to listeners and viewers must be free of advertising, furthermore that it is not relevant for the NRK to operate, own or be a partner in radio or television channels financed by advertising and which have Norway as their primary target area. Nor should it be possible to cross-subsidise the business with licence funds. Profits from business activities shall be used to increase programme production and programme procurement. The Ministry’s view in the consultation note on advertising spots on teletext is that this is positive, also in the text service related to NRK’s public broadcasters, because it is considered that text television must be considered as an additional service, as viewers must actively seek the service. TV 2 AS is negative to this, and the Ministry of Children and Family will ask the Ministry of Culture to consider whether it is appropriate to allow advertising on text television in general, or to consider regulation when advertising has children as a target group. The Committee's view on this matter is somewhat divided and it may seem that there is no unanimity on any point. It shows that the matter is quite complicated and difficult. On the other hand, everyone agrees that it is important to clarify the framework of the business activities of Norwegian national broadcasting AS, also legally, but the Committee does not agree on the guidelines and opportunities to be provided to the NRC and on what basis. The Progress Party has a different view from that of the majority. The forwarding party considers that NRK Aktivum AS is an undertaking that competes with other broadcasters on the broadcasting market. The difference is that many of the activities in this area are made up of licence fees over the years, and thus have a completely different basis for operating on the market than the other operators on the market. The Progress Party also considers that the NRK should not have ownership of advertising funded broadcasters as long as the licence funding is in place. The Party of Progress will also, in line with the Right and SV, warn against a development where, with the approval of the Ministry, the NRK is constantly moving the boundaries of what is to be exempted from the concept of general broadcasting. A hollowing out of this term implies a weakening of the legitimacy of the broadcasting licence. Otherwise, I would like to mention that the Committee also makes proposals in relation to local radio: ‘The Government is requesting that no local radio be decommissioned during the concession period, with the exception of exceptional cases. ‘... In connection with Ot. pp. No 55 I will present the joint proposal from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left, which reads: ‘The activities of the Norwegian National Broadcasting AS are financed by broadcasting fees, sales revenue, etc. The activities may not be financed by advertising in the NRK public channels. Broadcasting fee is determined by Stortinget. ‘... In addition, the Progress Party shall promote the following two proposals: ‘The Government is asking the Government to promote the cause of the Stortinget with a plan to privatise the NRK as soon as possible. ‘... And... ‘The Government asks the Government to sue the Storting with a plan to abolish the broadcasting fee during a three-year period. ‘... So to Ot. pp. No 63, about sponsorship. The point of progress is of the opinion that it is now important to implement a clarification in the rules on broadcasting sponsorship. The party of progress will show that in recent years there has been a slippage in the use of sponsorship, especially in the NRK. In this context, it must be pointed out that such sponsorship appears today, the difference between sponsorship and advertising has become very small. This means that there are currently few television viewers who are able to understand the difference between sponsorship and advertising. Nor can the progress party see that there is the huge difference between these two things, and believes that it is important that a clear distinction be made in the future, so that the rules on sponsorship are not abused. The party to the progress is of the opinion that there should be a possibility of sponsorship in the NRK, but that there must be very strict rules for this. Sponsorship shall only be permitted when displaying programmes of particular national interest, such as: major sporting events and cultural events. The Progress Party is also of the opinion that it must be opened up to sponsorship from political parties in the commercial channels in the same way as business and others.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e314	The representative of Bredvold has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e317	The two matters currently under consideration are both about clarifying and strengthening important aspects of the economic framework conditions for public broadcasting in Norway. I note with satisfaction that the Government has obtained a majority in the Committee on its proposals on the business activities of the NRC. The same applies to the proposals concerning sponsorship, with a few important exceptions. With regard to the clarification of the legal and regulatory framework for NRK’s business operations, the entire Committee agrees that this is necessary. There is no doubt that the legislative changes that will be adopted today are necessary not only to give the NRC greater economic armaments, but also important in order to ensure flexibility in the current business, which is necessary for the NRC to be able to offer a competitive programme spectrum in the future. Today, it is more important than ever to take action to ensure the NRK’s competitiveness, so that the institution can more effectively withstand the growing commercial channel flora that is required from outside the world. However, very important assumptions are being made for the new legislation, firstly that licences should not be used to subsidise commercial activities and, secondly, that any income from subsidiaries that are able to conduct commercial activities should be kept completely separate from tax revenue, so that a person can easily see where the different funds are used. Text TV has also become a useful complement to NRK’s general channels, and it is important that NRK can have such an information offer related to its channels. The central parties do not consider anything in principle to prevent advertising being broadcast in the context of NRK’s text television. It must be based on a manifest misunderstanding when right-wing parties and SV argue that the introduction of advertising on text-TV helps to move the boundaries of what should be exempted from the general broadcasting concept. The point is that although text television is technically part of the ordinary television signals, there is no doubt that there is anything different than television with live images. Whether or not it is covered by the public broadcasting concept as such is indifferent to advertising. Advertising is allowed in the commercial channels of the general public. On the other hand, the Christian People's Party agrees that it should be assessed in the form of a regulation to prohibit advertising on text television where it is intended directly to support or lie on the screen at the same time as the ordinary programme in the television broadcasts of the public channel, as the Ministry for Children and Family Affairs has pointed out in its opinion. At the same time, the regulations should provide for a regulation in cases where the television text is aimed at children. Of course, the background to the demand for teletext advertising is the strong increase in competition that is taking place, including in the context of text-TV, which makes such funding necessary. So a remark to the majority in the committee, which blows to re-fight for the right to send filmed violent descriptions if this happens outside the industry, but within the film club context. At a time when violence is an increasing social problem, and even for years extensive campaigns have been launched against violence in the media, the majority of the cultural committee will take steps to liberalise criminal law at this point. This could not be a policy of the pact over time. In Ot.prp. No 63 have submitted proposals to the Ministry to amend the rules for broadcasting sponsorship. There is an overall committee behind the desire to have such changes. In particular, it has been important to ensure the principle of sponsor identification, so that viewers can know who paid for the programme and have the opportunity to see to what extent this has also affected the content of the programme. An important consideration has also been to re-establish the distinction between sponsorship and advertising, which has become more and more unclear in today's broadcasting. We note that this is ensured by the proposals. On a few points, however, there was no majority in the Committee on Government Proposals. The government wanted some stricter rules for the NRK than for the commercial channels. It was about the production of the sponsorship brand and the shape of this. However, the majority have stated that the same rules apply to the NRK as to the commercial channels, namely that the name of the sponsor is also identified by name, logo or trademark in the NRK. Another discussion has been about the use of stationary or moving images. It was in the committee initially a majority to implement a system of equal rules, and the Christian People's Party also sees it natural to support the Workers' Party's proposal for not moving images for sponsorship in all channels, which is the proposal that, at our discretion, helps to maintain the important distinction between sponsorship and advertising. I think overall it's become a reasonable solution to both propositions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e345	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e348	Strong competition calls for more open frameworks in the NRC, says the representative Lånke. The lot of the representative and others also point to the cross-subsidy problem within the NRC. Competition surveillance has seen that cross-subsidy testing of competitive projects in the NRC is almost impossible. The supervision says: ‘In the opinion of the Authority, it may be difficult to argue that the NRK should be able to compete on equal terms with competing commercial broadcasters all the time it receives about. SEK 2.5 billion in licence revenues ’... ‘After supervisory assessment, the result of different framework conditions may be that end-users receive a lower TV offer and that the use of resources in the broadcasting market is higher than if the framework conditions had been more similar. ‘... My question to the representative is: how is the Christian People's Party supposed to check whether cross-subsidies are going on, when even the Competition Authority says they're not doing the job? I would also like to get the representative Lånke to elaborate: if the licensing level is maintained at today's level, and there does not seem to be any greater revenue compared to the extended framework, how will the NRK be able to produce better quality products?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e360	The representative Sandberg addresses important issues related to the business activities of the NRK. The aim of all the proposals contained in the two propositions is to strengthen the NRK economically, so that the NRK can just be a cultural pillar in Norway, able to withstand commercial influence from outside the world. We must then try to fix all the framework conditions so that this succeeds. The many proposals contained in these proposals are aimed at this. And the fact that the NRK can be allowed to do business outside those public channels seems absolutely necessary and acceptable. The cross-financing problem has been discussed, and I am aware of the objections raised by the Competition Authority. This has been carefully assessed both by the department and by others, and I record that it is only the Progress Party that really questions this problem. Nor has the Right used this as an argument against these proposals in the proposition. But what is the central point here is that ‘all transactions should take place on the basis of an arm’s length principle, as it is called. It may be a little difficult to illustrate, but that is, all transactions between NRK and Assets should in principle take place under the same conditions as those in which NRKs do not own interests vis-à-vis third parties. There shall be an open trade and there shall also be a real pricing. It has also been said clearly that the Ministry should closely monitor developments in this area to see whether this is taking place and whether it is necessary to take steps to change the rules that are now being introduced. But let's try this, now let's see how this works, and then we'll see if the NRK is able to raise the quality of the program offer "all over" and compete with the commercial channels.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e373	I have to say I'm a little surprised when the representative of the Christian People's Party, Ola T. Lånke, is standing here and in a way smooth and elegantly dismissing that there is at all some connection between television and text TV. I see that the department has applied that interpretation, just to meet the demands of the NRK. But at the same time, the representative Alstad – which is part of the same majority – says that text-tv, such as: digital television, becomes a much more integrated part of the TV image. The representative, Mr Lånke, has seen examples of this. in England, together with the rest of the Committee. It turns out that if one opens up advertising on text TV, including in modern form, the distinction between what is television and what is text TV will become more and more obliterated. Another thing that surprises me, and I would like to have an assessment of, both by Lånke and, if necessary, by a representative of the Workers' Party later, is that in the comments of the majority, reference is made to the hearing opinion issued by the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs. What I've believed when I've looked at how the majority has expressed themselves, is that here they say that there should not be advertising directed at children. However, the representative Lånk used parts of his post now to say that he could imagine that the Ministry of Children and Family has proposed should be assessed in the form of a regulation. In the hearing opinion, it states, inter alia, that:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t ‘It should also be assessed whether advertising should be prohibited in the Regulation where the textual television is intended directly to support or is on the screen at the same time as the ordinary programme in the television broadcasts of the general channel. ‘... It seemed to me that the representative Lånke supported this view by the party leader Vallerd Svarstad Haugland's department. Does this mean that the representative Lånke sees a text TV that is free of advertising when it comes to ordinary television broadcasts and that it is advertising when the television broadcasts are switched off? After all, the television day is still expanding, and soon there are not many hours off. What is the point of advertising on text-TV?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e385	I will admit to the representative of Greece that we are facing difficult demarcation problems. I don't think anyone's hiding it, so there's no reason to say that this is an obvious case. What we've seen is that there's also been increasing competition in the field of text-TV. This has made it absolutely necessary for the institution NRK to start thinking about how to finance its offer in the future. There will be a question of taking advantage of all the opportunities to obtain revenue in order to enable this television institution to have the quality of the programme and the diversity of the programmes that we want it to be. That's the background for us going in to allow advertising on text TV now. I assume that it is possible to assess continuously whether it is necessary or appropriate to maintain it. We also see that there is a convergence of text-tv and television. I don't deny it. We've also seen that in England, so this isn't an easy balance. It's not easy to draw this distinction. Nevertheless, we have chosen to fall on the decision that we will allow advertising on text TV. I have taken the reservations I mentioned in my post, which are also in line with the hearing opinion of the Ministry of Children and the Family. I think we'll see an example of what the representative of Greece said, namely that there may be screening of different parts of text TV at different times. I think this is a very exciting and interesting field, and it's going to be interesting to follow developments, but as I said, the department has to have a hand in this all the way and try to check if it's possible to do advertising on text TV in such a way that we're now in favour of. If we don't, we'll have to reconsider.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e394	I have to say that both the center parties, including the Christian People's Party, and the Workers' Party is making some strange croaks in the matter of allowing advertising on text TV. I do not think the representative Lånke came up with any very good reason why this should be allowed, and I would ask him: Do really children and young people who have full opportunity to watch text TV for a long time beyond the evening, more advertising than strictly necessary? Isn't that less advertising they need? That's the one question. The second is about one thing that's puzzled me a little bit. For our part, we have a note that if the NRK engages in pay-TV, it may tempt the NRK to show the most attractive programmes on pay-TV first, making the public channels less attractive, as the Centre for Media Economics, the Business College, BI, has shown, and as the Convergence Committee has also shown. I believe that the ministry also shares this concern. I find it a little strange that the Christian People's Party cannot participate in an indication that there is a need to be a leader here, and that the ministry should now ‘line’ up the principles needed to ensure the balance between the public channels and pay-TV operations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e402	I can agree with Mr Valle – and I have already said so far – that advertising on text TV in areas specifically targeted at children as a target group can be unfortunate. But I think it's bordering on the trendy way of overdimensioning the importance of advertising on text TV. Is it advertising on text TV that becomes the big problem on the cultural front in the future? Is that where we can expect the great influence of children and young people’s minds? No, honestly, I think we need to look at the big lines here. It's about strengthening a general television broadcast that we've had in Norway for 30-40 years, and that we want to survive in a commercial and competitive situation. Then I have to ask if it is better for children and young people to be overwhelmed and overwhelmed – I suppose – by programmes from the commercial channels, which seem much more destructive to their children than advertising on text-TV. I have to ask you, don't you have a sense of proportion? What is this about? So to this with pay-TV: it's a danger that can come, but it's also a challenge. It is a challenge for the NRC to create such programmes that this does not happen. We have to be willing to go into this with open eyes and take that challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e409	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e412	Today’s debate is essentially about how far the NRC should be able to go in a commercial direction without being funded by advertising. Right joins most of the legislative changes, but on two important points we put our feet down, for commercial channels and for the legitimacy of licence television. It is important to clarify the framework of the future business activities of NRK AS. The NRC has been involved in new business areas in recent years and competition in the television market has increased sharply. The right is concerned that the NRC should have a clean framework, but we are sceptical about the majority’s remarks that a development where the NRC is engaged in emerging areas will lead to a strengthening of the NRC as a leading public broadcaster. My claim is: the more commercial the NRK becomes, the less reason it is to defend licence funding. The less clear framework conditions the NRC has, the greater the reason to question whether licence revenues are used to subsidise commercial parts of NRK’s business. For this reason, the Right is involved in the preparation of the legislation, while we will warn against going too far in commercialising the NRK. I would like to refer to the statements, among others: from the Competition Authority, where cross-subsidies related to NRK activities are warned: ‘The Ministry of Culture appears to be aware of the cross-subsidy problem, but claims in the note that NRK’s accounting systems are designed to prevent cross-subsidies. How this is done is not prepared. The Competition Authority is not familiar with NRK’s accounting systems, but will point out that cross-subsidies from one NRK company to another may occur in more ways than through purely monetary transactions. Cross-subsidies may, for example, take the form of NRK offering a newly created company access to competence, equipment, programme material and broadcasting equipment without setting market prices for such goods and services. [[e.g. application archive]] ‘... I am therefore pleased that a majority states that the licence fee should not be used for commercial engagement. With regard to the ability of the NRK to participate in advertising-funded channels, the Right would stress that NRK’s public channels must remain free of advertising and that the Stortinget must be provided with any authorisation for advertising-funded channels in Norway or targeting Norway. However, I would add that the Right will not be particularly liberal in terms of the ability of the NRK to launch advertising-funded television in Norway or to target Norway. This decoration, as well as the majority's proposal to allow the NRK to send advertisements on their text TV broadcasts, is, in our opinion, in favour of weakening the credibility of the NRK as a licence-based, advertising-free option. The most bizarre thing in this case is the redefinition of text TV from being part of the NRK’s public broadcasting service to becoming an independent part that is not defined as part of the general channels. The majority say that they are positive that NRK’s text television should not be considered as part of the general channels, while in the next note they write that they support the proposal to send advertising posts on NRK’s text television, also in text television related to NRK’s general channels. Where is the logic of this? Text TV is not part of the general channels, says the majority, but at the same time they say that text TV is linked to the general channels. Why don't you make it a little bit easier and say straight out that the NRK wanted to advertise on text TV, and that's why they get it? Instead of trying to redefine the definition of broadcasting in an incomprehensible way. Right will warn against a development in which, with the approval of the Ministry and the majority of the population, the NRK continues to move the boundaries of what is to be exempted from the concept of general broadcasting. A hollow out of what this term implies will weaken the legitimacy of the broadcasting licence, and will eventually lead to a pressure from other actors and discontented licensee against the full commercialisation of the NRC. I would also ask the NRK to be held back with a full commercialization of its text TV, even though they are now given the opportunity by the majority of the population. On the day you are met by a start page on NRK’s text television, where it says: ‘Welcome to NRK and Coca-Colas text TV’, many licensees will be in doubt as to why they pay a licence. Ot. pp. No 63 for 1998-99 also deals with commercial broadcasters and provides for a cleaning-up of the regulations relating to the sponsorship of television programmes. The commercial channels have the possibility to have all their programmes sponsored, while it is proposed that the NRK should have the opportunity to use sponsors in the coverage of sporting events, as well as programmes produced by NRKs to be sent to several countries or of social or cultural interest. Right supports this cleanup and also supports removing one pst. rule for sponsorship. However, it is important to stress that the definition of ‘social significance’ is unclear and that the NRC should be careful to have sponsored programmes that are not of a cultural or sporting nature. The most eye-catching thing in this case is that the government parties have left the government's position on sponsor identification. They have made this clear that both the department and TV 2 have warned that this could lead to significant loss of income for TV 2. TV 2 itself has suggested an income loss of 55-60 million. kr per. years if they are required not to show moving images as sponsorship posters. That's what government parties are now going into, despite the fact that the department writes in Ot.prp. No 63: ‘If stricter rules were to be introduced for sponsor identification for the commercially funded broadcasters, this would most likely result in significant loss of revenue which is likely to be difficult to compensate through increased advertising revenue. ‘... The right is in favour of non-discrimination between the commercial channels and the NRK in terms of sponsor identification. In recent years, both the NRK and the commercial channels have been using mobile sponsor identification, last seen on TV 2 yesterday in connection with the handball World Cup. The NRK uses the same type of mobile sponsor identification. This practice should, in our opinion, be able to continue. Instead, two steps have been taken back, forgetting that television is actually a medium for moving images, not a slide viewer. What consequences this will have for TV 2 and TV Norway, do you seem to give the blapp in? Finally, a few words on another matter on which the Committee has found grounds to adopt a decision. We have received several reports that well-established local radios have been informed that they may lose parts of their integrated transmission time in the middle of a concession period. I find this totally unacceptable, especially in situations where we are facing a local radio with many permanent employees. The framework conditions shall not be scalded and selected in such a way as to endanger jobs. The right, therefore, is in line with the proposal for a decision which is on the table today and which is backed by a unanimous committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e444	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e447	I was actually going to shut up, but there were a few things in Greece's articles that made me a little curious, and I'd like to think of getting a little deeper. I understand that the right has hung itself in this with Coca Cola and text TV. I think it's starting to be a pretty uninteresting comparison, because Text TV isn't what's most suitable for brand construction, and that's what Coca Cola really cares about. But the right-hand term used is 'text TV'. Could the representative of Greece try to explain to me what the Right sees as a whole commercial text TV will look like? I believe that advertising on text TV is never going to be any big irritating moment, either for one or the other. You barely notice it in other text TVs right now. So I don't think that's going to be the big difference, but the concern for the whole-commercial text TV I could imagine getting a little deeper. I realized that it had to be serious when he was able to use most of his posts on it. In conclusion, what kind of realism does the Right and the representative of Greece think of it in the TV2 estimate that they will lose all their income, because there has been no kind of concern that the NRK, with the exact same legislation, will lose all its sponsorship bills. There should have been an equally worrying situation in that way, if it's the right behind it. Getting a Right assessment of what development will be like after the decisions we make today could therefore be at least as interesting and informative as getting their TV 2s.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e458	I can't see that in my script I have used the word "hero" for text TV. It is possible that Alstad heard it, and it is possible that I have said it, but at least it is not in my script. What's my main point is that the more commercial the NRK becomes, the less reason it is to defend the licensing funding. And it's a paradox that I'm standing here today as a representative of the Right and is the one who kind of goes against advertising on text TV for the NRK, but it's precisely the fact that we want to protect the NRK as a public broadcaster that's free of advertising. I haven't been into part of the other things that are mentioned in this proposition. The majority have, among other things: I did not agree to my remarks that NRK Always News and NRK Always Classical will be subject to a ban on advertising. In other words, there is an opportunity here to come back to Stortinget and ask for advertising funding for these channels. Otherwise, as the representative Jon Olav Alstad, I will not try to stand here and be a business economist and manager. I record that the department in its proposition has warned against TV 2 not getting mobile sponsor identification. In that case, they will suffer a significant loss of income, writes the Department. And the department answers a question from the committee that TV 2 has itself estimated this to ‘make between 55 and 60 million. crowns » of the year. I have no desire to go in and review or assess the level of this statement. I record that the department is in charge of it, and I record that TV 2 has used these figures. So rather, the representative Alstad uses the time here to appear as business economist and business manager, and evaluate how the TV 2's forecast of sponsor incomes will be made with the new decision that the majority of companies today place on the commercial channels.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e469	I'm not going to go into assessing whether the TV 2's estimate for sponsorship revenue is sustainable or not; it gets time to show. But the fact was that the representative of Greece, in his intervention, stayed a lot with sponsor identifications. Sponsorship is not primarily a source of income, I understand, but it is necessary to provide the institutions with broadcasting rights, in order to compete for important events, especially in the sports sector. I am a little surprised at the Right, which is just included in all the comments in the setting that are about deepening and clarifying the distinction between sponsorship and advertising. This has to get clearer, the committee says, and the right is there, all the way. But then it is that the Right – when they have to choose the alternative – goes to the opposite extreme and chooses the option that is closest to advertising, and that can certainly help us, even in the case of sponsorship, to get on a glide scale, in contrast to advertising, namely to allow the use of moving images. It must be much blind that does not see the inconsistency in the Right’s argument regarding sponsorship.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e480	Now I've grown up in a deaf school and not a blind school, but I don't feel like I'm so very blind. What we have said quite clearly is that we want a clear distinction between advertising and sponsorship. We're following the majority here, so we're agreeing on it in the committee. The reality is that today we have mobile sponsor identification in both TV 2 and NRK – probably in NRK. At least it's come after this, and now it's a proposal to tighten it up. Then you reverse the rules for the commercial channels. I'll call it going back two steps. What's important is the relationship between sponsorship and advertising. I think most, both those who see a little bad and those who see a very bad, see the difference between a commercial and a commercial on TV 2, for example, that lasts half a minute, that has a lot of chatting, that has music, and that has at all a completely different imagery than a sponsorship poster. That's still what we're talking about when we're talking about moving sponsor IDs. The last example I remember from yesterday is the credit card, which has a sponsoring ID in which they run this K through an ice block. It's like what's the sponsorship. So it's not about saying anything about the service, it's about presenting the logo to the company, and that's the majority, and so far both Lånk and I agree that it's still going to be. There should be an opportunity to show company logo, there should be no advertising film. It is possible that Lånke has a little difficulty understanding our logic in this, but then he has to be inclined to ask: Where was the Ministry's logic when they went into moving images on TV 2 and non-movable images on NRK? After all, we wanted the same rules, and I realize that it was not easy for the representative Lånke to go away from the ministry's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e489	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e492	The background to the proposals and this debate is inter alia: clarifying the NRK’s ability to engage in commercial operations and whether the NRK should be able to operate with different business operations than under current rules. The NRK is now facing a competitive situation that is far more difficult than it was a few years ago. Here it is supposed that the NRK through its subsidiary will get involved in business operations on the same line as its competitors. Increased revenues will again be used for programme production, both the public broadcasters in our neighbouring countries and the BBC in England are now towards more extensive commercial operations through subsidiaries. At the same time, the NRK’s general programme offer shall be free of advertising. It's an absolute premise. Licensing money should also not be used for commercial exposure. So it shouldn't be possible in any way to cross-subsidize the commercial operation with license money, if anyone would imagine it. Following the proposal of odelsting, the company’s statutory auditor shall verify this as provided for in the Share Act. This question has been raised by several people. Otherwise, the NRK cannot participate in, or establish, advertising-funded channels that are specifically targeted to the market without the Stortinget managing this. The idea behind the whole proposal is to strengthen the role of the NRK as the central public broadcaster in Norway. The remainder of the business activity shall be used to finance increased programme production and programme procurement. Now it will be possible to send advertising on text television, which is no longer considered part of the public channels. Here it is important that we provide closer rules, so that services that target children are protected from advertising. However, the central party has not been signed in that laws are amended to exempt movie clubs that provide public views from the ban on viewing illegal referencing according to criminal law. If this option is enabled, it will be in conflict with the action you have taken in recent years to reduce the usage of the selected image media. If you make an exception for movie clubs, you may find that other people will also be able to watch movies with e.g. rough descriptions of pornography and violence. And when it's claimed that there is no censorship of images, art and books, I don't understand the comparison, to put it mildly. When it comes to NRK and sponsorship, there has been a need to clarify the rules for this, as the practice of the regulation has a little outflow. There are now rules to limit which NRK programs can receive sponsoring funds. This will mainly be for sporting events, but also for programmes in co-production with others with particular social or cultural value. Nor shall there be any restriction for the NRK for purchased programs. The requirement that the NRK should not have more than 1 pst. of annual revenue from sponsoring funds, is now suspended. Otherwise it will be legal to prohibit a political party from sponsoring broadcasting programmes. It is perhaps the question of sponsorship that has been most debated in this matter, especially whether or not it should be a logo. Here it is important that the same requirement is set for the identification of sponsors in NRK's broadcasts as that of commercial channels. Thus, the NRK may identify using a name, logo or trade mark. It is also important that there is a clear distinction between sponsorship and advertising. The development of sponsor entries will still be able to move towards ordinary advertising spots, which could be unfortunate from a viewer's point of view. This is the background for introducing the same identification rules for the commercial channels as those proposed for the NRK. And there's no problem to go in for in any way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e515	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e519	At the same time, by joining the Ministry's proposal for the extension of the NRK's business activities, it is accepted that the NRK should be able to engage in payment television. This may not be in accordance with the programme of the Centre Party and its view in this area. Does not the representative of Aarrestad believe that this could lead to a qualitative depletion of the offer in the general channels? The undersigned therefore does not get this link to sound as a good centre party policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e524	I am pleased that the representative Bredvold has noticed what is the Center Party's policy, and what we stand for in value issues – I think that is very positive. When it comes to pay-TV in the NRK, it can be fun, but I would think it would be quite a long time before anything like that would happen. There is nothing in the first row, there are other areas that are now much more relevant and that are being debated. Payment TV is something that will be totally different from the NRK public channel, but it may come in a while, when one in a few years had to get digital TV also here to land. But I don't think of it as the big change up there, and I don't see that that's what the NRK wants to bet on first. There are separate other things that NRK has prioritised before this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e531	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e534	I think everyone here in the room -- most of them at least -- is dedicated to defending the NRK as a licensed public broadcaster, and that the NRK has obligations to stand for diversity and quality, to producing and broadcasting programs that gather the many in front of the TV screen, but also narrow programs that are initially not aimed at the high viewer count. SV is aware that it is not an easy task to defend quality and diversity in an increasingly tough media world, a media world that has given us more commercial simplicity. Therefore, as a media enterprise, the NRK will face many tough challenges. I'm realistic enough to realize that to defend the NRK as an advertisement-free public broadcaster, it may be necessary to give the NRK more legs to stand on financial terms. Therefore, SV will mainly support the Government's proposal, but there is one exception, and that is that we do not want to let go of advertising on text-TV, and I have to justify that – the reason is already given. At the same time, we will warn against a development in which increasing business activity by itself becomes a goal from a one-sided point of view of ratings. In order to prevent the commercialisation of the NRC, it is therefore necessary to set up alternatives other than the expansion of business operations without hindrance. For SV, it may be appropriate to use state funds for digital investment, and we will also point to the possibilities of introducing a concession on advertising-funded public broadcasters. A concession fee may help to finance some of the investments needed for NRK, but above all it could give Norwegian film production a boost, which in turn will benefit both NRK and TV 2. The NRK justifies the need for more funds because it costs to send expensive sports items, and that is absolutely true. But then I would like to point out that the price of sports broadcasts will be affected in positive rental if and when Stortinget decides later on the arrangement in Ot. pp. No 2nd@item: SV will, as I said, oppose advertising on text TV. We do that because text TV is an integral part of the non-advertising public broadcaster NRK. For the public, text TV will appear as part of the provision of public channels, as the Consumer Ombudsman writes in a consultation opinion. We therefore believe that advertising on text-TV would undermine licence financing. And no matter what the representative Lånke says, advertising on text-TV will help increase the advertising pressure, because if one opens up advertising in several venues, it will increase the advertising pressure. And if there's something special children and young people need less of, and no more of, it's advertising and consumption pressure. I am – I had almost said – painfully aware that today's decision means green light for the NRK to get involved in pay-TV, and that's what we're into. But it could mean that the NRK could be tempted to send the most attractive programs on pay-TV first, just to make the most money. The Convergence Committee warns against weakening the free provision in the general channels if NRK falls for this temptation. I also see that the ministry, in a letter to the committee, also expresses a concern, but that the department will follow developments closely. It's okay, but I think it's too defensive. Here it's about being the leader was, and I'm surprised that the majority of the committee doesn't see this problem, because they're not involved in the comment on SV, nor are they aware that the department has already to clarify principles on how to tackle this balance sheet process. SV mainly supports the broadcast sponsoring option. We see it this way, as several others have done, that what we're doing today is clearing up the distinction between advertising and sponsorship. But we don't agree with the committee majority that it should be possible to sponsor educational programs. There's two reasons for that. Firstly, children and young people are a target group for educational programmes, and we therefore believe that sponsorship of educational programmes could violate the principle of non-sponsoring programmes for children and young people. Secondly, there must never be any doubt that the content of the educational programme is objective in the sense that it is not affected by any interests. Therefore, I am amazed that the majority – no other parties – do not see this issue either.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e549	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e552	I have basically only a small question related to the comments from SV regarding payment TV. SV has not been against the introduction of payment TV, but has had some other concerns, so it could have been useful to clarify the following: Does SV think it is reasonable for Norwegian licensees to pay if they set up a payment offer to reach Norwegian viewers who are interested in Norwegian channels, whether it is in Spain or it is in the United States, and that the viewers who then receive an offer are not allowed to do so – it is a payment TV that is often mentioned?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e557	I also believe that there can be opportunities to set up a payment TV intended for the Norwegian market. Therefore, the Convergence Committee and the Centre for Media Economics, the BI School of Commerce, are concerned that the NRK may be tempted to broadcast the most attractive programmes first on pay-TV and then on the NRK public channel. We have not been against giving the NRK the opportunity to create a pay-TV. That's why we're also involved in this setting. But we believe that the ministry, which is concerned that the general channel can somehow lose its grip on this development, should already look at how to approach this balance in principle.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e564	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e567	In the case of broadcasting sponsorship, the majority of the Committee is essentially in favour of the Government’s proposal. Overall, this means that we get clearer distinctions between common advertising spots and sponsor identification. At the same time, the artificial limit on the amount of NRK income can be derived from sponsorship. If the NRC were subsequently to receive higher sponsorship revenues, this would mean strengthening public broadcasting in Norway. Firstly, the government’s proposal for stricter rules for NRKs than for other broadcasters in terms of sponsor identification is based on a desire to keep the NRK as free as possible of advertising. I mention here that the ministry has received many reactions to the extensive presentation of sponsors, especially in NRK's broadcasts. In particular, this applies to sporting broadcasts. Secondly, there have been clear indications that commercial broadcasters will lose money on restrictions in relation to current rules. It has not been clearly stated that these companies can compensate for this loss through increased advertising revenue. It was therefore on the basis of an overall assessment of these elements that the Government took its position on different rules for the NRK and the other companies. But of course, I take note of the majority's view of equal rules for all companies. We will soon follow up the treatment of the proposition, and a draft regulations will be sent to the hearing early in the New Year. I am pleased that the majority of the committee joins the Ministry's proposal on NRK's business activities. The purpose of the Department's proposals is three-thirds. Firstly, today’s legislation is not precise enough and helps to raise doubts as to what opportunities the NRC actually has to engage in business activities. Secondly, the NRK is currently exposed to a completely different competition from commercial broadcasters in the home and abroad from just a few years back. If the NRK is to maintain its central position as a public broadcaster, the company must be able to engage in wider activities than is the case today. Thirdly, it is important to clarify that there is an absolute premise that profits from business activities should be used to produce and purchase programmes for broadcasting in the general channels. The proposal thus contributes to the strengthening of public broadcasting in Norway, which has for a long time been a broad political consensus in this room. However, it would be wrong to believe that these revenues – important as they will – make licence revenue less central to the NRC. An important element of the Ministry’s proposal is to prevent the use of licensing funds to cross-subsidise business activities, which many have been involved in here. I can assure you that we will follow developments very closely, and if necessary introduce special rules on separate accounting, as we have described in broad order in the proposition. A majority of the Committee calls for proposals for rules to be drawn up in such a way that films which contravene the provisions of the Criminal Code on the improper use of gross acts of violence can be shown when they are not carried out in the industry. In practice, this is in film clubs. I would like to take this opportunity to make it clear that Section 382 of the Criminal Code prohibits the public display of such acts of violence. I would also like to stress that the vast majority of film clubs are available to the general public. In other words, viewing in most movie clubs is public even if viewing is not done in the industry. This means that if the majority’s proposals are realised, access to violent films will increase. I find this regrettable in the light of, among other things, the action plan against violence in the media, implemented by the government of Harlem Brundtland. However, I will loyally follow up on the majority's comment and take up the matter with the Ministry of Justice, which is the appropriate body for changes in criminal law. The view of the majority, as I see it, cannot be implemented without changes in criminal law.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e596	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e599	The size has expressed on several occasions the desire for an enhanced and viable local TV. We now see that we are building up a good local television offer across the country. Although the economic situation and the 1998 overview show that local TV is growing, we see that the basis of existence is still struggling. The deficits are significant. In the last year, it was actually only 1/3 of the stations that went into balance. In the Adult Declaration, the Government of the day expressed: ‘Near radio and local TV are important factors in the local media image and good framework conditions should be ensured. ‘... Does the Council not see any concern that the new and free framework for the NRK can easily have very unfortunate consequences for today's newly established local television? If the NRK is then informed of the framework proposed by the department, which is in the matter today, local TV will simply have a new and big commercial competitor, i.e. NRK. When the realities are as they exist here today, we in the Progress Party also realise that this will have a majority. Then my natural question becomes to the Council of State: Will the Council of State carry out some impact assessments for the local TV stations, if any, and what will the Council of State do to safeguard the rights and the existence of local TVs in relation to the new and reinforced distortion of competition contained in today's proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e614	It is true, as the representative Sandberg points out, that the Government is very concerned about maintaining both local TV and local radio at a high level. We see that as important, also in a district policy context. Then the question is whether the new and freer frameworks for the NRK have implications for local TV and radio. Immediately, it is definitely not stated that there will be any automatic consequences. I am concerned that we should manage to maintain the NRK somewhat as the majority of the Norwegian people know it, while maintaining local television and local radio. But I think we need to be realistic in our relationship with the NRK, too, and for some of us, it's very important to maintain the NRK as a licence-funded public broadcaster that just preserves diversity and quality. If we're going to do that, we're going to have to make some changes to the business operations and the business opportunities that the NRC is going to have. So I'm concerned that we're both going to be able to take care of the NRK in a good way and we're also going to be able to maintain local radio and local TV in a good way. We know that many people are struggling economically with the local level, but I can't see that through the changes we are now making with regard to the NRK, we will create conditions that dramatically change the framework conditions for local radio and local TV.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e621	Governments maintained that the introduction of non-movable sponsorship for the commercial channels could lead to a significant loss of revenue. I find it interesting, then, that the Council of State and, to the extent that the majority – who may not be of the same opinion, that this will lead to loss of income – are in favour of it with open eyes, when one sees the somewhat difficult situation the commercial general television broadcaster now has to deal with economically. With regard to the point about text TV and advertising on text TV, I did not hear the Council of State mention it. Now the council had no more than 5 minutes at its disposal, so I thought I'd give her a little chance to elaborate on it in her answer. The representative Lånke referred to the opinion of the Ministry of Children and Family, and he stressed in particular that it was necessary to assess whether advertising should be prohibited in the regulation when television text is intended directly to support or be on the screen at the same time as the ordinary programme in the television broadcasts of the public channels. I would like the State Council's comment on the proposal of the Ministry of Children and Family, because the Ministry of Culture also says: ‘The King shall be able to provide for closer rules on advertising in the NRK’s text television, including: so that they can attend to the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs. ‘... I would like to ask whether it is ‘you’ to whom the representative Lånke referred in his statement, to which the Council of State will also pay attention when formulating rules or regulations to this effect. And can the Council say anything if it is technically possible to operate with a set of text-TV pages associated with the broadcasts to the NRK, where it should not be advertising, and a set of text-TV pages that are outside of broadcasting time, where there should be advertising? Is that what the department has thought of this, or is it the representative Lånke who has misunderstood?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e637	There has been a relatively broad discussion here about text TV. I just want to say in the beginning that I think it is a rather complicated matter. We in the ministry have made adjustments in different directions, and I think we have been in most of the arguments that have been put forward in this debate in one direction and the other. But we have then concluded with what is stated in the proposition. My general starting point to go for that solution is that we have to give NRK business opportunities in order for us to manage to maintain advertising-free channels with a lot of diversity. But I'm not saying this is easy. We have made adjustments back and forth and ended up there. As the representative of Greece pointed out, we explain in the proposal the possibility that the King could provide detailed rules on the broadcasting of advertising in the NRK's text television. I have to admit that I do not have a full overview of the technical possibilities, but I just want to confirm here that we will go into the process in relation to the regulation at the time it might be necessary, and that we will consider different aspects and different issues that will need to be taken into account in that process.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e644	No more words have been asked for. No one else has asked to speak on the matter either. 5 and 6. [[Footing, see page 134]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e654	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1-6.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e692	The progress party has announced that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e703	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote. The President assumes that the Progress Party will also oppose this. - It'll be nod.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e712	The legislative decision will be sent to the Layer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e718	During the debate, Siv Jensen, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward a proposal for Section 6.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e822	There is a different proposal from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 6 shall be replaced by the following:However, if the State’s grant share determined under Section 2 is less than 50 pst, the grant entity may require the State to cover such a proportion of the removals. Grants provided for in this provision which exceed the estimated grant under Section 2 do not constitute payments, but are charged against future taxes under the Petroleum Tax Act §3 and §5 as compared to the target. ‘... Alternatively, between the recommendation of the Committee and this proposal, a vote will be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e859	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e866	The legislative decision will be sent to the Layer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e872	The President would point out that the proposal of the Socialist Left Party which is included in the vote on page 22 is not presented.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e1254	The Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party have warned that they are against this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e1308	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e1315	The legislative decision will be sent to the Layer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e1321	In the course of the debate, 15 proposals have been put forward. It's: proposed no. 1 and 2, by Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party and the representative Steinar Bastesen proposal No. 3 and 4, by Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 5 and 6, by Kenneth Svendsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Nos. 7, by Børge Brende on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 8-15, from Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The President first takes note of the proposal No. One, two, six, and fifteen. Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, Right, Socialist Left Party and the representative Steinar Bastisen reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and submit proposals for specific deductions for exceptional maintenance costs arising from settlement. ‘... Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, Right, Socialist Left Party and the representative Steinar Bastisen reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to review the situation of commuters where there is no alternative collective offer, with a view to a fairer regime. ‘... Proposal No. 6, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that rules are laid down to reduce the Equation Fees for Housing, Leisure Houses and Business Properties etc. with 25 pst. ‘... Proposal No. 15, from the Socialist Left Party says: ‘The Government is asked to promote a proposal with the necessary legislative proposals to repeal the special company tax scheme with effect from the 1999 income year. ‘... These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e1419	Right has notice that they want to voice against.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e1453	The President will vote on proposal No. 9, from the Socialist Left Party, to § 59 nr. 1st@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘a.I Law of 18 August 1911 nr. 8 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:I. [[tax laws]] § 59 nr. 1 is replaced by the following:1. The share or proportion owned by the asset is treated as equal to the share or share owned by the active taxpayer even in determining the person's income pursuant to § 57 and § 58. Related are the parents, spouses, spouses’ parents, children, cohabitants, and cohabitants’ parents. Dividends or share of profits receivable or receivable by related persons are equal to the taxpayer’s share or share. II.The change in I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the 1999 revenue year. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e1894	The President has understood that the Socialist Left will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e2101	The party of progress will vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e2131	Here there is an aberrant proposal, No. 12, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Law of 28 February 1997 No. 19 on popular security is amended as follows:I. The fourth paragraph of Section 23-3 is replaced by the following:No charge shall be paid when the income is less than NOK 26400. The fee shall not exceed 25 pst. of the part of the income exceeding NOK 26400.II.The change in I enters into force with effect from the year 2000. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e2192	The Progress Party and the Right have warned that they are going against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e2345	The President will vote on proposal No. 13, from Socialist Left Party, to § 4-12, second and third paragraphs. The proposal reads as follows: «The Act of 26 March 1999 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:I. [[tax laws]] Paragraphs 4 to 12 of the second paragraph are replaced by the following:The share shown on the SME list at the Oslo Stock Exchange is valued at its price value on 1 January of the Equation Year. Paragraphs 4 to 12 of the third paragraph are replaced by the following:Non-listed share is valued as the holding share of the limited liability company or public limited liability company in the total value of its tax assets on 1 January of the previous year, broken down by denomination. II.The changes under I shall enter into force with effect from the year 2000. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e2421	The President will vote on proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party and Right, to § 5-14, third paragraph. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Law of 26 March 1999 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e2463	Did someone make a mistake?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e2466	I would suggest that the President refer to the voting theme, and then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e2471	If there is anyone who is aware that they have a problem, we can take the vote again, but if nobody thinks they have a problem, the voting is on the right side.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e2474	I made a mistake.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e2479	The President sees that there are many people who are not sure if they are correct. If Odelstingen doesn't accept it, we'll take that voice again. The President will then vote on proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party and Right, to § 5-14, third paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e2759	The Socialist Left Party has warned that they are going against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e2778	Here there is an aberrant proposal, No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Act of 26 March 1999 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:I. [[tax laws]] Paragraphs 6-32 are replaced by the following:The minimum deduction is fixed at an amount equal to 25 pst. of the sum of the income covered by Sections 6-31.II.The change under I enters into force with effect from the 2000 year of income. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e2848	Here there is an aberrant proposal, No. 5, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law of 26 March 1999 No 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows: Paragraphs 6 to 44, first paragraph, are replaced by the following: The deduction is limited to that part of the amount that exceeds NOK 7000. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e2931	In point (f) there is a different proposal, point. 3, from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law of 26 March 1999 No 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: point (f) of the first paragraph of Section 6-50 is replaced by the following: [[tax laws]] f. environmental protection, nature protection, cultural protection or animal protection. ‘... The Socialist Left Party has warned that they are moving towards the whole paragraph. Therefore, the proposal from the Progress Party and the Right will be put to the vote first, and then over the option.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e2973	Here there is an aberrant proposal, No. 5, from the Progress Party and the Right. Wrong information. The proposal was presented by the Progress Party alone. The proposal reads as follows: « § 6-61, second paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: Seafarers are persons engaged on board ships on main voyages if the work lasts for a total of at least 130 days in the same year of income. The deduction is not granted for income from work on board ferries or passenger vessels operating between Norwegian ports when the distance of the route between first and last calls is less than 300 nautical miles. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e3013	In point (a) there is an aberrant proposal, point. 3, from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: « § 6-81 Special deductions for age and disability, etc. point (a) of the first subparagraph shall be replaced by the following:From the month in which the taxpayer reaches the age of 70, a special deduction shall be made in respect of general income of SEK 1518 per month. the beginning of the month. Spouses are entitled to the same special deductions as a single spouse. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e3029	Letters b and c are recorded for voting purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e3037	The President will then vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party and the Right, when applicable to § 6-81, second paragraph. The proposal reads as follows: « § 6-81 Special deductions for age and disability, etc. the second subparagraph is replaced by the following:From the month in which the taxpayer receives preliminary unpaid pay under paragraphs 12 to 16 of the Grape Social Security Act or invalidity pension because the acquisition capacity is reduced by at least 2/3, a special deduction is granted in general income of SEK 1518 per person. the beginning of the month. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e3125	The progress party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e3271	The Progress Party and the Right have warned that they are going against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e3295	The progress party and the Right have warned that they're going towards the second point, and it's going to be over this point.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e3358	The President will then vote on proposal No. 11, from the Socialist Left Party, to the first paragraph of Section 10.12. The proposal reads as follows: «The Act of 26 March 1999 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:I. [[tax laws]] Paragraphs 10 to 12 of the first paragraph are replaced by the following: remuneration means dividends received multiplied by the shareholder's general income tax rate. For dividends on shares not held by companies, they shall be multiplied by 2 per cent. II.The change in I enters into force with effect from the 2000 revenue year. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e3491	The second sentence of the first subparagraph is preceded by an aberrant proposal, No. 9, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘b.I Law of 26 March 1999 No. 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows:I. [[tax laws]] The second sentence of the first paragraph of Article 12-11 is replaced by the following:The parent of the taxpayer, the spouse, the parent of the spouse, the child, the partner and the parent of the partner are considered as related. II.The change enters into force as of the 2000 revenue year. ‘... The progress party and the Right have notified that they are going against this setting. Therefore, the proposal will be voted on first and then over the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e3540	The President will then vote on proposal No. 10, from Socialist Left Party to § 12 16 and 12 17. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law of 26 March 1999 No 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows:I. [[tax laws]] Paragraphs 12-16, second paragraph, are deleted. So the third term is going to be a non-negotiable term. Paragraphs 12 to 17 shall be deleted.II.The amendments under I shall enter into force from 1 January 2000. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e3631	Right has the warning that they're going to go to the fifth term, and it's going to be first argued over this term. And then it's going to be over the sixth and seventh terms.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e3724	The Progress Party and the Right have warned that they are going against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e3774	The President will vote on proposal No. 7, from Right, to § 15 5. The proposal reads as follows: «The Act of 26 March 1999 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:I. [[tax laws]] Paragraphs 15-5 are replaced by the following:The deduction is given in the tax calculation of SEK 15 500 in Class 1 and SEK 31000 in Class 2 but does not take effect in the calculation of social security contributions and top taxes. II.The change shall enter into force immediately with effect from the year 2000. [[2]] ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e3797	from the saddle: I voted wrong. I voted in favour, but I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e3804	The representative of the Bastisen voiced for, but should have voiced against. Then the result is 10 to the right and 65 to the right. The proposal is therefore not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e3826	Here there is an aberrant proposal, No. 3, from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘ § 16-1 Disposal of dependants is replaced by the following: 1st@item: inlistbox Personal taxpayers resident in the Kingdom, cf. § 2-1, and have children residing in the Kingdom who, at the end of the year of income, have not reached the age of 19, dependants are deducted from taxes and social security contributions.2. The amount of the allowance shall be SEK 1 880 for each child up to and including the year in which the child reaches the age of 15.3 The amount of the allowance shall be SEK 2,620 from the age of 16 up to and including the year when the child reaches the age of 18. If, in the year of income, less than half of the child's ordinary living costs are incurred by the dependant, the allowance for this child is reduced to half or lapses.4. Where the dependant is single and only takes care of children as referred to in the first sentence of the third subparagraph, the dependant shall be deducted in respect of one child more than the number for which the right to deduct is granted in accordance with the third subparagraph.5. If the dependant deduction exceeds the assessed tax and social security contributions, the excess shall be paid in settlement of the tax payable by the Act. The Ministry may provide for the completion and implementation of this paragraph. Where specific considerations so require, the Ministry may extend or restrict the scope of persons entitled to dependant deductions. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e3864	The Progress Party and the Right have warned that they are going against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e3911	The President will vote on proposal No. 14 from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law of 26 March 1999 No 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: § 17-10 is deleted. [[tax laws]] ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e4139	The right has warned that they are going against, and the President has understood it so that the Progress Party will also vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e4161	It's going to be over the heads of the laws and laws of the whole thing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e4169	Statutory decisions will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e4176	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, from Per Roar Bredvold on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 2 and 3, from Per Roar Bredvold on behalf of the Progress Party The President first mentions the proposal No. Two and three. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to promote the cause of the Stortinget with a plan to privatise the NRK as soon as possible. ‘... Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a big deal with a plan to abolish the broadcasting fee in the course of a three-year period. ‘... These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e4222	The party of progress has notified that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e4243	Here there is an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from the Progress Party, Right and Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: « § 6-4 is replaced by the following:The activities of Norwegian Rikskringcasting AS are fined by broadcasting fees, sales revenue, etc. The activities may not be financed by advertising in the NRK public channels. Broadcasting fee is determined by Stortinget. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e4294	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e4301	The legislative decision will be sent to the Layer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e4315	B and C shall be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e4365	The Progress Party and the Right have warned that they're going against the second point. The first sentence is taken up to voting time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e4376	The second sentence is taken up to voting time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e4406	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower-2.ana.ud2291e4413	The legislative decision will be sent to the Layer.
