ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e33	The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Buskerud County: Frank Willy Larsen For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Ottar Kaldhol For the Rogaland State: Bent Höie For the Westfold province: Knut Anvik The following permit applications are available: from the Norwegian group of the Interparliamentary Union to the 102nd. Interparliamentary Conference in Berlin, signed by the Head of the Delegation, Senior Representative Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt, on leave from 12 October to 14 October for representatives Karin Andersen, Aud Gaundal, Ola D. Glötvold, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, Sverre J. Hoddevik, Ola T. Lånke, Jørn L. Stang and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt from representatives Kjell Engretsen, Bjørn Hernæs and Tor Nymo on leave from 12 October to 14 October – all to attend an OSCE conference in Nantes, France On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. 2nd@item: inlistbox The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For Akershus County: Rikke LindFor Hedmark County: Ida Marie Løvlien, Magnhild Byseth Olrud and Helge BjørnsenFor Rogaland County: Helga RullestadFor Sogn and Fjordane counties: Mathias RåheimFor Troms County: Rita H. RoaldsenFor Nord-Trondelag County: Bernt Högensen and Solveig Åsgard KlevenFor Sør-Trondelag County: Borghild Winsnes MalumFor Østfold County: Roy Vidar Heia3. Ida Marie Løvlien and Bernt Hågensen are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet the representatives of Ola D. Glötvold and Aud Gaundal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e160	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e165	I suggest Aud Blattmann.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e170	Aud Blattmann is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Aud Blattmann is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e173	The representative of Lodve Solholm will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e176	For the help of some of the others in this room, I would like to make suggestions on behalf of Torbjørn Andersen, Vidar Kleppe and myself to wind up the county council as a self-administration level.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e181	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e193	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose to allow for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e204	St.meld. No 32 for 1998-99, Higher education, and its evaluation is in many ways a summary of the first four years of reform 94. In this evaluation process, several research environments and a dedicated follow-up group have been involved in advice and evaluation. The Committee's position is marked by a large consensus on most of the main points. I am pleased that it has been possible to achieve good cross-political cooperation in this setting – not least with SV and the centre party. This will make it easier to improve further training, not least as a case manager. In the light of the evaluation reports, the Government’s report and the Committee’s setting up, one can mainly conclude that reform 94 has been and is a success. This does not mean that there is no need to make adjustments. We must not forget that before the reform was introduced, there were major and fundamental problems in continuing training, with low throughput and poor means of implementation. Furthermore, it was almost up to young people to get an apprenticeship. The supply structure was both inconspicuous and highly specialised, and there were long queues of applicants for further training. This was among others. Some of the main challenges facing you, and in order to address these problems, reform 94 was launched. The evaluation shows, as I said, that there has been a positive development in most areas. The aim has been better penetration and more people are completing the education cycle, and this has become much better. One can also see that there is now less reversion and migration across the system. The aim is to increase the recruitment of professionals and to increase the number of young people to take up apprenticeships. This has also improved considerably, and we have been greatly improved in the textbook situation. What is now important is to address the major challenges we face, both now and into the future. There are major technological changes in society every day. Education and training are given more attention, both nationally and internationally. Furthermore, we see a greater emphasis on the importance of education for economic development and society's need for ever-increasing skills renewal in relation to the rapid and major restructurings and technological changes we see in everyday life. Therefore, we need a holistic thinking in continuing training with emphasis on innovation, entrepreneurship and project work. The Government shall be commended for its action plan on entrepreneurship, ‘Accommodation on the agenda’, which is an important contribution to promoting entrepreneurship in children and young people. But here it is important to allow students to participate actively in both planning and implementation. As I interpret the big message, the department wants to reduce the level of ambition when it comes to students' involvement in this work. It's totally unacceptable, according to the Workers' Party's opinion. We all agree that continuing training should be adapted to individual pupils and apprentices' needs and needs, while meeting the needs of society and the labour market. Mainly, the field of justice works well, but some adjustments are needed to increase flexibility in this area. When it comes to the basic price structure, we now have two new basic courses: media/communications and commercial subjects. The government proposes that these new basic courses should initially form the basis for vocationally-righted training pathways. The Committee agrees with this, but it must also be possible to have training courses geared towards the preparation of studies in the media and communication. In the case of commercial subjects, consider changing the name to something more understandable. With the two new basic courses, there will be a total of 15 basic courses in the structure. In our opinion, it is not desirable to have so many basic courses in the structure of consideration for the reform's intention of broad and decentralised basic courses. It is also not desirable to have too many VK I courses. With the establishment of much more VK I courses than had been foreseen, there have been increasing recruitment problems in some subjects and an increasing need for access, so that the Committee looks forward to the work to be done in this area and to the basic training structure, in close cooperation with the social partners. One can conclude that the main model of vocational training in the labour market mainly works well. However, there is a need to make use of the flexibility within today's system, while at the same time testing new flexible and customised solutions is also needed. The Committee broadly shares all the points of view that have emerged when it comes to so-called theory press in further training. It is precisely here that the challenge is to work on professional theory without reducing the content of common subjects in general. The theory section must be viewed in conjunction with practical training in the workshop, kitchen or systova. Therefore, it is necessary to transform teaching into more active learning methods, e.g. project work. Another important point is that teaching needs to be adapted in a better way than at present to individual students’ needs and needs. It applies to pupils in general as well as to professionals. For some elephants, it is necessary to exploit the flexibility of the system to switch between training in school and training in the enterprise, and for some, it is also necessary to allow full training in the enterprise. In the context of the implementation of Reform 94, it was a major challenge to provide adequate apprenticeships. This challenge is clearly good for most people. But it is important to stress that this work has been done at a time when the labour market has risen. The challenge is greatest and most difficult in so-called foolish times. Against this background, a number of people believe that a plan needs to be developed in cooperation with the social partners to ensure access to apprenticeship places in times of tighter economic activity in the industry. This is also not least if you really think that full vocational training in school, i.e. VK II, should only be a necessity. Today's labour market needs highly skilled labour and the reform has very good access to skilled workers. It is of interest that an investigation in Oslo and Akershus shows that 80 pst. of the enterprises also want workers who do not have professional or maid letters. The Committee’s plurality suggests that a certificate of competence must be drawn up to document what the individual can and can later provide the basis for a supplementary training against a letter of formal qualifications. In this sense, it is important to give this group of young people a right to a course of so-called sub-competence as a goal. When it comes to adult applicants for further education, it is a step forward that adults now have a right to complete within the same course of study when they are first admitted to a basic course or VK I. I'm aware that most county councils are doing this today. That's why I'm afraid this will be a little too passive compared to grown-ups. The main problem is that this group receives a very small supply of basic courses or VK I, although it is in today’s scale regulation that the county should also dimension the intake of adult seekers. The range regulation is too weak in this range. The capacity of the individual counties also shows that this rule has little impact as they have a capacity of well below 375 pst. of a year's coal in its supply today. In a time of weak local economy, the provision of crops has become a balancing item as long as they do not have a straight line with young people between 16 and 19 years of age. I can understand that in a lot of ways. The most exposed schoolwork is available in technical colleges. It's going to be discussed later this month, so I'm not going to say more about this right now. The Labour Party believes that the exercise of rights must be extended to all those who have not already received further training, and I have registered with the pleasure that the Government in the Budget Paper signals a positive willingness to do so, but as it appears, unfortunately without a new economy. The Committee’s plurality points to the important role of vocational and study guidance in continuing training. On this basis, a plurality suggests that a pilot project must be launched to separate the advisory function from a social educational part and an educational and guidance part. Furthermore, there needs to be a strengthening of the manual service itself. These are important measures that should start from the next fall in some county municipalities. The reason for this is that we now see that some occupations are completely lacking in recruitment, while in other areas there is an accumulation of seekers. So at the last intake, we saw a slight tendency towards a larger search for the general field again. It is therefore so important to get in early, so that young people can get help with conscious and thought-out career and study choices. Finally, I shall address the proposal No. 1-5, from the Labour Party and SV, and proposal No. 6, from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e242	Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e247	I want to draw attention to the theory of the professions. The Labour Party, like the rest of the Committee, has been quite clear that there are many people who feel that there is too much theory in the professions. Together with the majority of the Committee, comments on the problem have been joined, which in short are about to do very little — or nothing — with the problem. The Progress Party believes that the theory section should be able to be reduced in the professional fields. In any case, one must be able to bring down the more general theory and focus more on the theory of the professions. We have also made a proposal on this. I understand that the Workers' Party is registering the problem, but will not do anything concrete about it, such as. results in many young people falling out of vocational training. I ask, how will the Labour Party explain that you register such a significant problem without doing anything concrete? The textbook production and prices of school books are another theme that is affected in the setting and that was significantly affected in the election campaign we have behind us. Then the Workers ’ Party promised the students that a school - book lending scheme would be established and that they would receive a school - box grant. In fact, it is approx. 175 000 students in secondary school. If it is assumed that these averages spend 3,000 kroner on school books — probably it is a low estimate — the Workers' Party loan scheme will cost 525 million. kr to establish and probably 150-200 million. kr of the year to maintain. In addition, the grant costs are 175 million. kr. This is not a negligible amount, and it would be informative to confirm that the Workers' Party will make proposals for this, and to know where to pick up the money from.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e260	When I now hear the reply from the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen from the Progress Party, I am still feeling that he could not have read the whole setting. Just like the theory part of the profession, it was also one of the main themes of my main paper. In fact, we say that we want to do some work for those who are struggling with theory. We have said that with today's legislation there are possibilities that make the theory part more practical. We do not want to lower the level of theoretical subjects, or common general subjects, in the field of study, but one must correct them more effectively. For example, it is important for students to learn English. It's important for students to learn math. If you are going to work in a workshop, you must be able to read an instruction in English. You must be able to calculate various formulae for the project you are working on. But on the other hand, we point out that we must correct the teaching in a practical way and not spend time and effort analyzing, for example, Shakespeare. So it's an area that we're going to prioritise in the near future. In the case of textbooks and textbooks, the Workers' Party's intention for a long time now, including in the context of the election campaign, has been to introduce a so-called box grant of NOK 1000 per year. student. Cost frame pointed to by the representative of the Progress Party, above 500 million. NOK, is a grant scheme of NOK 3000. But first of all, we want to phase in with a $1,000 share.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e267	I want to start this line by giving credit to the case rapporteur for the work he has managed in the committee, and also for the contribution he made today. I especially liked the mention of the need to see the context of schoolwork, innovation and entrepreneurship and thus the need for the active student in high school. There are views that we in the Christian People's Party fully share. One of the main devices in the Government’s communication is that more flexibility is needed into the system, and – as the rapporteur has also explained – the Committee concludes on that perspective and needs in high school. However, when I take the floor again, it is because the Workers' Party has made a proposal that one wants to anchor in the curricula that students who take secondary education with study qualifications as their goal will also gain experience in working life during the course of training. I am very much in favour of the idea behind the proposal – the exchange between theory and practice is to a great extent good. However, such a lashing in curricula can also make it difficult to get enough apprenticeships and to get the resources in the working life that are needed there for us to have enough apprenticeships, if the working life is also to receive practical students from other fields of study. Now we also get some signals that working life is a priority for adults rather than legal apprentices, and if we are to open up more practice in other fields of study, then problems may arise. Does the representative Oppebøen Hansen see that this can cause problems in relation to getting apprenticeships?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e276	I thank the representative Arne Lyngstad for the praise he gave me. We agree – and I am very pleased – that in today's system it is possible to achieve greater flexibility, and I am pleased that the Committee is in favour of greater flexibility in the future, as one might have to focus on more individual solutions. To the last time the representative of Lyngstad mentioned: I see clearly the problems he is pointing to. It is – I was saying – a bold desire on the part of the Workers' Party that those taking a general course of study can also have a period of practice in an enterprise. But then, of course, I see the chines that Lyngstad's representative was in, that there might be a problem in future with apprenticeships. It does not mean, however, that a person should not work against the fact that even those taking a general course of study can gain some knowledge and knowledge of the labour market. So I see the obvious problems, but one has to keep working with an intention of trying to get it to, and I actually have great faith that one can solve it somehow in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e283	The most striking feature of the high-level survey report is that it does not refer to half of what is currently Norwegian secondary education, namely the general field of study. From the Right and Advance Party we have pointed this out and pointed out some of the problems that are present in the general field of study. The Committee has not commented on this at all. Therefore, my question to the rapporteur on the matter: Does this mean that the Labour Party considers the situation in this part of secondary education to be trouble-free, and it is considered that there is no reason to address the obvious problems that exist, among other things. in the case of teacher recruitment to general secondary education? My second question relates to a joint comment by the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party on pages 20 and 21 of the vote, which makes a very strong statement about the use of grades in secondary education, and where, among other things, there is a very strong opinion on the use of grades in higher education. is: ‘These members consider the use of grades to be unfortunate because it may lead to an excessive focus on parts of the curriculum that can again manage the choice of training methodology.’ It is a relatively long joint comment, which only produces the unfortunate aspects of character use. And then comes the amazing conclusion, which reads: ‘The member of the Socialist Left Party is therefore promoting’ – that is, in the light of this joint remark between the Workers’ Party and SV – ‘the following proposal’ – on which the Workers’ Party is not involved. It appears – if you can allow yourself to use a sports metaphor – as if you have a common, quite bold and long course, but the Workers' Party stops before you get to the board, and does not jump. Why don't you jump?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e300	In sports terminology, a word "hope" is used, and the representative Inge Wohnning knows I'm not a sportsman. Why doesn't the Workers' Party jump? I'll bring it with the grades first. What the working party is busy about is finding other measuring instruments that are specific to the base ball, that is, other ways of measuring or testing the students, but I'm a little presumptuous and a little careful when it comes to continuing training. The SV's proposal is to phase out the marks both in the base ball and in the further education. Therefore, the Workgroup will not jump. The representative of Inge Wohnning says that the message and the setting up of the Committee contain little mention of the contents of the general course of study. It does not mean that there are any problems there as well. We have pointed out the content of the curriculum, and we have pointed out its content when it comes to the revision of structure and diverse areas. But it's actually not where the biggest problems are. The main problems today are within the field of vocational education. But it doesn't mean that it's the way the representative on the payroll said that one isn't busy with the issues that are also in the field of general education. When it comes to recruiting teachers to that direction of study, it's a question that the Labour Party has been very concerned about, and it was on that basis, among other things. that the Labour Party calls for an interpellation in the spring of 1998 to be given an action plan for teacher recruitment. As far as I understand at the Council of State, it is the same around the corner, and the Stortinget gets it for treatment during the winter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e307	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e311	I will take some of the most important issues for the Progress Party in this very comprehensive position. Norwegian school is a terrible animal, and at best you can call it a medium. That is why the Progress Party has several times here in the United Kingdom put forward proposals for a significant reorganization based on a new school funding system. In the submission, we have also made proposals this time that will create a competitive situation between schools based on price-fixing systems or school checks. We think this could build up under a healthy competition between the schools and give the students a better offer. We also believe that such a system will help improve school cost-effectiveness. In the context of a desire for government secondary schools to be given far greater autonomy than they do, the party sees a single price. today. We also want a system where students are free to choose school in consultation with their parents. We also want the admission regulations for schools to be amended so that individual subjects are weighted according to their relevance to the line applied for. For example, exercise should count more when entering sports lines. In recent years, we have seen a growing trend towards unrest, strife, violence, etc. at school. This is what the Progress Party believes must be taken seriously, for example: by putting greater emphasis on the way people behave, behaviour, respect for teachers and fellow students, discipline, etc. We believe that the use of punishment, detention and expulsion from school needs to be increased for short or longer periods of time in cases of unrest, strife, vandalism and violence. Another field in which we want to focus is secondary school education. Several studies have shown that this has little support in the population. We also believe that time has run out of cross-sectional education in many ways. Today, our language is exposed to considerable competition through the sound and image media of world languages such as English. In this situation, students’ school days should focus on learning their main objective in addition to internationally applicable languages. We are pleased that the Right has got our eyes up on our proposal to make written side-by-side training optional and hope that other parties in the future will see this as reasonable. We also agree with the Right that more attention should be paid to exams as an evaluation method in school. As I mentioned in my reply to the Workers' Party, the Progress Party is generally skeptical about the significant element of the theory of the professions that has been given after Reform 94. The criticism of this has been strong, and we have made concrete proposals asking that we look at the possibilities of reducing the theory bit. On the other hand, vocational training is the proposal to look at the aggregation of different basic and secondary courses. The Progress Party has registered that this has met with criticism which we regard as factual from several hearing bodies. This makes us very skeptical about contractions. The textbook production is also affected in the setting. We think the solution to the problem of expensive textbooks is three-thirds. Firstly, it is necessary to remove the anti-competitive book industry agreement, as proposed in Document No. 8:56 for the 1998-99 treatment in Stortinget. Secondly, we need to consider funding the advertising of school books in order to reduce the price. And thirdly, you have to avoid unnecessary substitutions of textbooks. We have little faith in unrealistic proposals made by the Workers' Party in the election campaign. But in some other areas, we very much agree with the Workers' Party. Together with the Right and Labour Party, we have made proposals to strengthen the guidance service in the school. We see this as very important both to ensure that students make sensible and informed choices in relation to the labour market and to ensure that they are satisfied with the choices they make. We also meet the trial project by separating the advisory function in a social educational part and a educational and guidance part. We really wanted to go a little further – to make this a permanent arrangement, as we are convinced that it is a sensible solution. I would like to address the joint proposals from the Right and the Advance Party and the proposals from the Progress Party. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that proposal No. 22 is identical to proposal No. 18th@item: inlistbox Proposal No. 22 can cancel out, as I see it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e345	Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e350	It is very strange to say about the school policy of the Progress Party. The best thing about it is that it's not going to be adopted here today, and I think we're going to be happy over all of them. The representative Knudsen said that he would make the side measure optional, and that means for most people to make the newnorth optional. In fact, I doubt whether the Advancement Party has thought so carefully through this – whether they are really aware that this will lead to more or less the removal of one of the forms of writing from the Norwegian school and thus it is phased out from the Norwegian community. I hope this is something that no longer intends to raise itself. The representative Knudsen began his speech talking about having a school that was more influenced by freedom of choice and flexibility. They would have priced funding, they would have free schooling, they would have increased autonomy and they would have increased freedom of choice within each school. And that is, of course, a tribute in the ears of the Progress Party. But this doesn't matter, because in addition, they want to conduct exams in all subjects. I met the Vice-Chairman of the Progress Party, Terje Søviknes, for debate in the election campaign, and then he said that they would introduce standardized tests in all subjects in all schools. This was also true of the private schools — which would lead to, for example, I'd just like to drop out of Steiner School. It's just based on not having that kind of tests and not having grades. The progress party adds up to a violent drive on folk, discipline, punishment and ‘sit neatly on your stump until the school clock beats’. This is not a flexibility tool. This is a tool for aligning the school. I have to be allowed to ask the representative Knudsen if they have really thought through this – whether this is really the school the Progress Party wants. And it's kind of done when they let the criticism go against the Workers' Party and SV because we want to align, when it's really the ones who want to implement the tools that are needed to make all Norwegian schools as equal as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e365	I didn't mention neon in my post, but I talked about sidings. It's related to the fact that large parts of our country are using new Norse, and I guess as their main goal, they're still going to choose new Norse. So it's also the case with the two languages that they're very similar, so we don't have any big problems understanding each other. Otherwise we would have to have translations here in Stortinget. I therefore doubt the basis for the claims made by Mr Norvoll. A relationship that is perhaps the most fundamental as a background for promoting a proposal for optional side goals, like what we do, is that we get signals from both business, work and school that a whole lot of Norwegian students are struggling to learn the language. 20 pst. have serious difficulties in reading and writing, and that they have to wear two different Norwegian dimensions, we do not think it necessary. Tomas Norvoll takes up in his reply a number of aspects of the Progress Party's policy. It's impossible to answer everything in a short answer. In the case of examinations in all subjects, the Progress Party is concerned with quality control, as has been said several times also from the Chair here. We want a clear evaluation of the results, but a great freedom for each school as to how they will arrive at those results.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e374	From the outside, it may seem a little strange that a large majority in the Grand Duchy today are voting against a proposal for good peoples. But the terms used by the Progress Party in proposals No. 20 and 21, on concrete measures taken by the Government on mandatory implementation, becomes somewhat strange. That the situation is so that in many classes there is unrest and the hours of teaching can be both difficult and alarming, we do not need to discuss. The Christian People's Party is of the opinion that children and young people can best meet with openness and understanding, that conversation and guidance, good methodology, alternative forms of work, for example. project work, and not least adapted education, is a better way of reaching out to difficult students, getting them involved and getting them on track, better than confrontations and punishments. Does the Progress Party agree that it is better? Schools themselves make their own rules of procedure. Both pupils and parents are involved in the process and in the decisions taken. Should this be overruled by several rules and measures taken by the Government? Does the Progress Party no longer want this to be the right of parents and students?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e381	With regard to the problems of violence, unrest, strife, vandalism, etc. Of course, being in school does not benefit from just one measure. Transparency and understanding point to the representative. Of course, it has to be used as an instrument, and it has been the dominant instruments in the Norwegian school. However, developments suggest that there is also a need to do other things. Let me take a few examples, and I refer to a small article in the VG on 2 October 1999: ‘Every fourth run in Oslo shall not be punishable. The reason is that the gangsters are under the criminal lavalier. The young cranes are growing more and more. In the last year, the proportion of workers under the age of 15 has increased from 14 per cent to 26 per cent in police criminal statistics.’ So it was VG on the 2. ==References== From the last edition of the magazine The Headmaster, I will quote a short passage: ‘Nordic headlines report other and serious cases of violence between children. We read about children as violent men, children as robbers, children in gang warfare, children who are engaged in terror and fire. Unfortunately, the pattern is clear enough throughout the whole Nordic region." And especially clearly in Norway, as we have seen through the media. In this situation, which is the result of the policy that has been pursued in the last 20 years, other measures and incentives need to be considered, says the Progress Party. We have proposed some concrete proposals. We know that there's a lot to do about politeness and discipline in school, but that's not enough, and that needs to be tightened up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e400	I don't think there's any doubt that the biggest problems we'll face in future in further education will be found in general education. The subject area is not much covered in the message, and we are facing a lot of problems in getting a quality that we are looking at in the future. Nevertheless, it is clear that there are also major unresolved problems when it comes to vocational training, and one of the areas that we have not yet managed to function 100 pst. are the systems of apprenticeships. On the right hand side, we've put a lot of emphasis on flexibility, volunteering, motivation and not coercion when it comes to apprenticeships, and we've chosen to propose, and we'll propose again, incentives for companies to find it reasonable to take in apprentices. We have proposed, among others. Last time in our revised national budget, removing the employer’s fee for apprentices with the reason that we think it makes little sense for the government to punish at a fee the enterprises that choose to hire apprentices, because, after all, it is not just beneficial to the company. There are very big obligations on them when it comes to the lesson. I notice that the Progress Party in this setting takes a distance from the Right's proposal for such an incentive scheme, and I would like to ask the representative Knudsen to elaborate a little on that resistance to the Right's clear proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e407	The Progress Party has also seen the problem of apprenticeships. But we've seen a little bit different solution models than what the right has done. It is clear, of course, that the Progress Party wants taxes and charges to be reduced, whether they be employers’ or other taxes. What is central to us is not to complicate the tax system further. Such a system as the Right sketches, we're afraid will bring about more bureaucracy. It will be hard to manage. Maybe we should look at other models that are easier to manage compared to this by strengthening the apprenticeship situation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e414	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e417	Reform must change, transform and renew the existing for the better. There is no doubt that reform 94 has changed, transformed and renewed further education. The first phase has focused on structure and system. Now is the time to focus and raise the content of concepts such as ‘innovation’, ‘value awareness’, ‘quality’ and ‘flexibility’. In the view of the Christian People's Party, the government's communication provides a comprehensive assessment of the state of secondary education, and I am pleased that the measures aim to introduce sufficient flexibility both in the system and structure and in those who are to manage the system at different levels. Reform 94 gave all students between 16 and 19 years of age the right to secondary education either at school or in the company. This has been a proper measure. I note that the Government today agrees with its main efforts to improve reform and higher education. The Committee gave its position before the summer break, and I am also pleased to note that in its draft budget for 2000, the Government is following up the vote. For the Christian People's Party, it's an important recognition that all students are not the same. Therefore, we now need to focus more on flexibility in order to meet the needs of individual students. One example is the finding of skills objectives other than general study competence and professional letters. Students and apprentices who do not aim for a letter of formal qualifications or a certificate of formal qualifications must obtain a certificate of professional competence for what they can. Developing such a system must take place in cooperation with the industries. The aim is not to introduce a new level of competence but to provide evidence of competence at different levels that describes what the student can and has received training in. During the work on the Committee's communication, the debate on new basic courses has been central. The Christian People's Party wants new basic courses to be introduced in commercial subjects and media/communications, but it is important to ensure active involvement of the industries, the social partners and the counties in the design of the basic courses and the further course, and that this is done before the courses are implemented. I'm pleased that the government is keeping pace, but I'm concerned that it won't succeed in having textbooks or providing the teachers with sufficient updates in the new curriculum. I therefore ask the Council of State to listen to the advice he receives from the industries, the parties and the states when the basic course is to be started. It is important that the main model of secondary education remains in place. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party believes that it must be opened up to a greater degree of uniqueness. There may be consideration for small subjects with special qualifications, but also for students who need adapted training and a different training model. Landlines must also be seen as a tool for the provision of small subjects, but it is important to maintain that such offers should primarily be made by county municipalities. It is necessary to stimulate binding cooperation between the counties on such offers, but where such cooperation is not possible, and in the interests of small trades, the ministry should propose country lines. Higher education has many challenges ahead, but two in particular need to call our attention. The first is the realisation of the reform of skills in the labour market, which will increase the demand for higher education among adults. I am pleased that the government in the draft budget now announces a bill for a right for adults who want to take secondary education and who have not completed such training before. It is important to adapt such a right to the needs of adults, taking into account the ability of county councils to comply with the right in periods of increasing search. I would therefore recommend to the Workers' Party and SV to draw their proposal no. 2 in today's setting. The second major challenge is to continue working on the content of secondary education. I experience many engaged teachers who see new opportunities for good learning. I also see the need for increased attention on adapted training. The situation of the general public requires our attention, but when I see that Norwegian lawyers in the press are able to do project work as the major threat to the future of the general professions, I am not quite able to take it seriously. Fortunately, many teachers see the possibilities of new learning methods and are able to make teaching relevant and interesting for students. The key to good education in high school is that we get active and engaged students together with professional teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e434	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e438	When the Stortinget has now addressed the major report on the evaluation of Reform 94, it is clear that the main division of the Stortinget in terms of higher education is between the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre on one side and the Right and the Advance Party on the other. It's on the ground. While we in the committee were dealing with this big message, we received several signals that the country line in the field of sport, which provides a top-notch sport offer, is receiving a lower rate per year. students than the private upper secondary schools. At least that was the input we got in the debate. It'll be in case of concern. For this reason, the Workers' Party and the SV have made a proposal in this setting that the Ministry should make a comparison and present to the Stortinget an assessment of what the landline receives, and what, for example, the private upper secondary school. I would think it would be quite unproblematic to get those numbers on the table from the department, so that the Storting knows what we can actually deal with. I have to ask: does the representative Lyngstad not agree that it is a concern if the landline on, for example, is on. Meråker secondary school in Nord-Trøndelag receives a smaller grant per year. student than what the private upper secondary school gets? If he agrees that it would be objectionable, then question No. 2: Why, then, cannot the Christian People's Party vote in favour of the proposal for the Workers' Party and the SV? After all, it's not about anything more than getting the numbers and an assessment on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e447	If the Workers' Party's proposal had only been a survey, it would not have been a problem, but it would have been the Workers' Party in relation to top-level training. What is also a bit of the problem of the Workers' Party's proposal is that they will actually have an assessment of how private upper secondary schools will be organised in the future. It will be an approach to this sector that will be wrong for us in the Christian People's Party. What is the main problem, as I experience it, is that we should decide on the amount of capacity and the emphasis on the amount of resources that top-level training should have. I see that as a major challenge. We have also said in our own comment that we want to get a survey of the needs that are present. Whether there are economic differences between the private lines and the county lines, or the national lines that we have, will be subject to assessment. The information I have received shows that the picture may not be as clear as the representative from Konglevoll suggests, because it is also worth noting that in addition to government grants, they also have opportunities for sponsorship, and have a fairly large sponsorship. Public services also have access to infrastructure in schools, which is covered, and then there is a question of how a person compiles the calculations, so the picture is not so unambiguous. However, in my view, the main challenge is to clarify the extent of top-level education.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e454	I'll link this line to two things. This applies mainly to flexibility and to ensuring competence. The representative Lyngstad spoke of cooperation with the industries to ensure flexibility and competence, especially in the small subjects, as I understood it. I would then like to draw his attention to the fact that the requirement for the tailoring profession was substantially reduced by the introduction of this in Reform 94. Before the reform one had to produce a complete garment, today it is enough with a collar and a blow. How he makes this happen, I would like him to say something about it. In addition, we have another very small subject, a body organ, which doesn't have textbooks at all. There has been no desire, obviously, to obtain it either, so now the only company in the country, in cooperation with a particularly interested principal, has launched a project to develop these textbooks on a private initiative. Does the representative Lyngstad and the Christian People's Party support such initiatives? In addition, I am concerned about actually the same thing as the head of the Teachers' Association, Folkestad, with this project work at school. Project work may be good and good, but it's quite problematic to do it when the people who want to lead the work don't know what it's all about. I myself have been in this for just a few years, where the project work was just a mess, because I actually knew that, who had been working on this for quite many years, more about than the teacher. I therefore want Lyngstad to explain something about this project management piece, which is so important.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e465	I must honestly admit that my knowledge of the tailoring profession may not be the best – and in addition to the collar, I would have preferred that they would also sew a sleeve. But it is quite illustrative what is being addressed here in relation to the small subjects, that it is important to have a dialogue between the school authorities and the industry in order to develop both good-quality vocational plans and curricula that meet the needs and requirements of the workforce in these industries. At the same time, it is also important to remember that the school is unlikely to meet all the demands of working life. Therefore, the labour market itself must also take part in the challenges. It is important that high school participates in providing a basis for education, but fine-tuning must involve enterprises and industries themselves in training. Then I also want to say in relation to the project work that I think the representative Evje's posts show that there is a need for further training and schooling in these areas as well. It's done, and I also feel that a lot of high school teachers master these working methods. But that there is still a need for continuing training in high school, I think both the representative Evje and I agree.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e474	The representative Lyngstad was within the professional level, and he was far in the general field, but concluded that the Lecturer team's objections were not those to resolve the future. I want to challenge the representative Lyngstad by asking the question: does Lyngstad share the opinion that the quality and level of general education in advanced education have been reduced after reform 94, as many critics and very many researchers show? If so, what action can the Christian People's Party take to counter this, which will prove to be a serious and serious problem for years to come? The second point I would like to challenge the representative Lyngstad on is one that has been up in both the media and in the debates in the committee, which is that it is no longer possible to re-take exams in all the subjects that are going on the final diploma. One might risk getting a bad exam in a lot of subjects. One does not have the ability to resume that examination, because one should also have the corresponding subject in a later year, but still that grade will count when admitted to higher education. On the right side, we have said quite clearly – and we have also put forward proposals on this today – that we must get rid of the unruly in this. What does the representative Lyngstad think about this? Could it be that the Christian People’s Party will support our proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e481	I notice that the right in the debate so far has been very concerned about focusing on the general study direction in relation to Reform 94. I have to say that I experience that the main challenges in relation to advanced education in the years behind us have been primarily in relation to vocational training and in relation to vocational training, and get that system in place. I expect that the Right also agrees, but the Right may not have found so much to criticise it and therefore turn attention to the general academic situation. Whether the quality and the level have been lowered in the general field of study is well divided. What I'm registering is that we have a problem especially in the real world. It may not have much to do with those who choose real science, but very few students choose real subjects. Now we've also had a change there by giving additional credits for higher education by taking a real-life course. I think that's the right way to stimulate more students to choose a real science, and I also think that this should help you to focus more on the challenges you face in real science. The last question, in relation to the exam, about not taking a single course when one has passed the exam later, I think there's some logic in it, because it's a higher degree that reflects the level of knowledge you have. The need to resume exams can also be questioned, and since it's combined with increased weight of real competence, there are opportunities to get in here, too, so I'll probably stick to the fact that the system we have today seems reasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e490	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e493	Right joined the main points when Reform 94 was introduced, but we had theses and warnings in several areas. The evaluation is now being carried out, and it provides a lot of useful information in several areas, but we are not quite happy here either. I want to focus on three areas in this article. The first is the quality of the training. Several things have improved, especially in part of vocational and vocational training, but the message takes surprisingly little account of the criticism of the professional development that has come from several sources. The message includes: to say that a comparison of professional levels before and after the reform is a little fruitful approach. Nevertheless, several things point towards a balanced professional level in several areas after Reform 94. In a study carried out for the Ministry, which is presented in the World Gang on 27 January 1999, it is called, among other things:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘77 % of teachers believe that... it is difficult to maintain the same level as before.63 % of teachers have lowered expectations and levels of students at risk’.» So the weakest characters are weaker than before the reform, and 23 pst. by the teachers, ‘it is not possible to give impressions in order for students to obtain a letter of formal notice’. Furthermore, we see a frighteningly large percentage of iron and a lot of weak characters at universities and high-sphericals. Maybe there's something in the council Lilletun gave in answer to a written question about this that I asked on June 24, 1998, where I especially brought out the characters in mathematics. Lilletun sings, among other things,\t\t You can change the ‘One of the reasons for the high iron percentage may be that the professional basis of continuing training is generally weak.’ This is serious, and I did not think the Council of State has followed up this in the message, and there is a great weakness in the message that is being delivered today. The other area I want to go into is that we need to get more inequality in further training. Many aspects of reform 94 have been anchored in the idea of unity, and a large part of the problems today can be brought back to this very point. Right-wing still means that it is important to hold on to the fact that continuing training must be based on different but equivalent offers. Not everyone wants general study-preventive competence. We must accept and applaud the fact that the primary objective of most applicants for vocational or vocational training is to obtain the best possible education and training and that it has a self-esteem value. Not everyone wants or needs study skills, and too many troubles with a heavy and general theory in the profession. We have therefore proposed, together with the Progress Party, that greater emphasis be placed on professional law theory and less on general professional theory in vocational education and training. The third area I would like to comment on is the requirement for more flexibility in continuing training. On the right, it has always been pointed out that there is too much system thinking and square models in the further training, especially after Reform 94. Maybe it was a little bit too loose before. In return, it has become a little bit too square in the last few years. Some of the main points that we've stressed from the Right's side when it comes to this is that we need to gain greater freedom in the choice of school. Some have to choose, and it is better for each student to choose rather than for the place of residence to be decisive. We have to change the code – which I was in a line to Lyngstad just – that makes it impossible for a student to resume exams in a number of subjects. It's just that Lyngstad responded to it, that it's the grade of the third year that reflects the ultimate level of knowledge, but there's not much help in it for the student who wears a character from a previous year, who suffers from an admission to higher education, and maybe he misses coming into the study for that reason. We are stuck to the main model 2+2 in the professional field. But we have to make it easier to get deviations from the main model, etc. by removing the 21-year limit for drawing up a full-time apprenticeship in a company. And we don't have to lock the number on the basic and continuing course, as we were told. Society is changing, and we must not get into the same situation as we have been for some years, that we cannot change course and structure until the next major evaluation comes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e523	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e526	The party right has many good political points in this setting. Most of them we stand together. The reason for this can be found, among other things. read in the Right-Friendly Paper Evening Post, where commentator Solveig Ruud this spring wrote in commenting place: ‘Many of the solutions Fr.p. the proposed in e.g. health and school policy, now copied by the Right in almost identical form,...» When the Right copies our policies, of course, it's hard to disagree with them in so much. However, in one field there is a clear distinction between the Right and the Advance Party. The Progress Party has seen the growing unrest, strife and violence taking place at school, and we have promoted two proposals that will put greater emphasis on folk culture, behaviour, respect for teachers, fellow students, discipline, etc. Firstly, we have proposed an increase in the use of punishment, restitution and expulsion for shorter or longer periods of time in the event of an identified case of unrest, strife, vandalism and violence. Secondly, we have proposed that a ‘mandatory introduction into folk, respect for life, health and the property of others, behaviour and respect for teachers and fellow students’ should be carried out. We know, of course, that we are also working on this in school today, but the results are too poor, and that therefore needs to be tightened up. I assume that the right has registered the problems in the school in this area. However, I am calling for the Right Solutions to the problems. If you look at the setting, they seem to be absent.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e540	First, to the claim of copying the Progress Party's policy. The vast majority of the Right's proposals, both today and otherwise in school policy, were ideologically designed at a time when not all the present party entry was established. So the statement that the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen makes in this area, I want to distance myself from. It's true that in many areas of the setting, we are together. We agree on a number of proposals, but here too, as the representative Mr Knudsen pointed out, there are some proposals which, in the right's view, go too far to support them. Two of these are the proposals aimed at increasing the use of detention and punishment. I don't know if the representative Knudsen thinks this should also apply to legitimate people, who should thus be able to get some sort of loss of peace from the school's leadership. I have problems seeing how this can be done in practice in school. Furthermore, from the Right's side we are skeptical that it is the school that is going to take great and whole responsibility for the people. There is a part that hangs on the individual person and on the individual family when it comes to folk and personal responsibility for behavior. There is a lot that is not good enough in Norwegian schools – also in secondary schools – in this area. We have to put into action, but we don't have to make a parody on this. I don't think that's good for school or society.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e548	The centre party is not ashamed to have been involved in supporting the implementation of Reform 94, but I do not deny that it has been a major challenge to take full-time education. It actually started in the 1980s, with all the extra classes that were created. My experience in managing that system is not very positive, to put it mildly. After all, students chose across the study lines. It was both right and important to do something about this. The position of the Blegen Committee, with the main emphasis on the conversion of vocational training, was the basis for all of this, not least this was important for the choice of girls. It is known that the Right has been strongly critical of much in the reform. This may be the reason why the party is not now dealing with the majority of committees on the note that describes the actual positive consequences of the reform, such as:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t The large majority acquires study or professional competence.Transfer and cross-border migration have been greatly reduced.There has been considerable recruitment to the professions.Young people have a much higher level of apprenticeship than before.The county follow-up service works.The textbook situation has been greatly improved in the professional field. On the other hand, the comment describes the areas where the reform has not achieved its objectives, and the party promotes many proposals in the drafting process that confirm their criticism of the reform. I mention a few: optional secondary education, less emphasis on general theory in the professions, maritime-led schools and price financing where the money follows the student. My question to the last moment is: How does the representative of Løvik think that the training of all students across the country can be better if this system is implemented? I refer you here to the report that the Right Town Council in Oslo had worked out, which was made available after a while. The conclusion of this is, according to the press, anything but convincing. Or is there any other empirical material that proves that the Right is right?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e583	As I have already said, the Right was skeptical of parts of Reform 94 when it was carried out, and the evaluations and experiences show well that in very many areas we got right in the criticism we had. It is not quite true when the representative Tingelstad says that the Right has not stressed any of the positive. We have said that there are improvements here, and we have said that many of the improvements came, among other things. in the case of a professional profession and part of the areas referred to by the representative of Tingelstad. But the message has been very clear when it comes to pointing to the positive sides, so we can't find any special reason from the Right's side to expand and deepen the unreserved rose of the reform that the big message adds. On the other hand, we think it makes sense to use such an opportunity to point to things that don't work – not primarily to show that they haven't worked, it's not Right's policy, but we'll try to learn from the failures that are done, to get a better advanced training in the future. We have pointed out the three main points that I had in my post: quality, the need for greater inequality and the need for greater flexibility. In some areas, the committee has commented and mentioned a little bit about all of these three points, but I feel that the committee majority has not wanted to go as far as the Right in taking the consequences of the failures and defects that we know about. The other things are a little too extensive for me to take it in a reply, and I'm going to come back to them.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e596	One shall have both a magnifying and a very good imagination to see the correlation between the Right rhetoric and the suggestions they promote in this setting. I dare say that they do not have a proposal that leads to greater flexibility in high school. They support one SV proposal, which goes at a level of professional competence, which will allow for greater flexibility. But SV has several proposals that will create more flexibility and on which the Right is not involved, for example in terms of structure. SV has a proposal, No. 25, where we want to open up more loopholes, and we mention three areas: small subjects, subjects where there is a problem with recruiting, and situations where students have problems acquiring knowledge according to the 2+2 model. These are proposals that will create more flexibility, and on which the Right had the opportunity to join, but which they haven't supported in the Committee, so I'm very excited about what Løvik will answer to that. The majority of the Committee – all except the Right and Advance Party – also supports the curricula, where we want to provide greater flexibility, leave more to the individual teacher, greater methodological choice. We have a note saying that the curricula need to be reviewed with a view to opening up this flexibility. These are comments that the Right is not included in. What is it really Right wants when they talk about flexibility and we put on the table proposals on proposals that they have the opportunity to vote for, but that they do not support? I'm very excited about the answer. Do they believe that flexibility is a flexibility for students to choose school — schools that are largely similar to the Right’s proposal, which have grades, and which are based on a very centralistic system?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e603	The representative Rikvam came up with a claim that there was nothing from the Right side of this setting that pointed towards more flexibility. I don't know what medicine to prescribe to that kind of thing, but based on my knowledge, it might be an idea to read the setting a little bit more thoroughly. There, the representative, Mr Rikvam and others, will find, among others: the following that goes on more flexibility: greater freedom when it comes to selecting schools and ability to resume exams. We want to have greater possibilities for deviations from the main model, for example. by enabling persons under the age of 21 also to draw up an apprenticeship contract. We will have flexibility in future developments when it relates to both the number and composition of the basic price and the further course. We also want greater flexibility when it comes to the ability to deviate from the main model of vocational education, where the order of training in schools and businesses will come in. These are things we have put in, either in the form of proposals or in the form of comments, in this setting. There are also some claims from Reikvam about other aspects of Right's policy that indicate that he has not read the settings properly. In the case of the proposal mentioned by the representative, from SV, who is more flexible, the Right will support it. We do not stand here as proposers, but the proposal is on the verge of being a good right-wing policy, and then, of course, we will support it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e610	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e613	The paper on higher education and the evaluation of reform 94 is well received by the hearing bodies and the opinion. It has captured the current challenges that the experience of the reform has so far demonstrated. The parties are satisfied with the amendments proposed by the Government in the Communication and supported mainly by the Committee. The concern that the reform has not been able to provide satisfactory services to all students is confirmed in the evaluation reports. It's a long way to go before we can say that the students get the adapted training that law and curriculum require. This applies in particular to students with weak assumptions for theoretical learning. I am pleased that the communication takes such a clear position on this challenge and emphasises the need for priority to be given to the content section. The Committee shall follow-up. The comments on other competences/subcompetences, and on specific courses, clarify specifically adapted and differentiated training, as well as the right to contract training on the basis of the qualifications described for specific tasks. I'm drawing this area out first because, in my opinion, it's the way we organize for the weakest, which is the hallmark of a society's values. By offering students an opportunity to feel that they are using their abilities and facilities, even though these are limited, we have, in addition to making an important choice of values, also facilitated prevention in general. The centre party has supported the reform, but at the same time has been critical of the square attitude to change along the way and the lack of flexibility on the part of the previous government. Now it is a stage that has been set, and I would like to congratulate the rapporteur who has sought to make a thorough and good attitude with broad agreement from the Committee. The reform was particularly important for vocational training, not least for girls, who traditionally did not have so many professional courses to choose from that led to professional competence/letters. Similarly, the reform was necessary for society’s need for increased skills as well as better use of public funds in the school sector. Many goals have been achieved, but important parts remain before we can say that we are satisfied. The focus now needs to be focused on the learning environment and the individual student/student potential for learning and development in all directions of study. The proposed development projects aim precisely at this, in particular the professional correction of the general professions. I mean it in the technological world we live in, is going to be wrong to reduce the general theory, as the Right Party and the Advance Party suggest. I have noticed that this is not suggested by the training councils, and I consider them the most important experts here. Higher education depends on strong involvement of the business community, and Reform 94 is based on close and committed cooperation. There is reason to commend the social partners for their contributions. The reform has been demanding for all parties, not least the pedagogical staff. I think the Stortinget should admit that there was too little time for training for many teachers. At the same time, we must give homage to teachers and school leaders who were in a hectic and demanding time. There has been a dispute over the scope of the regulation whereby the counties are required to have a certain number of higher education students – i.e. not just pupils’ places – compared to the annual school. The size has previously agreed with the Riksrevision that the regulation is not an appropriate governance instrument. At my discretion, this can be directly centralizing. This particularly affects schools in pig-grown areas. I am pleased that the department is now working on other measures to ensure that the counties are offering in relation to the law. At the same time, I would like to express my pleasure at the Government's promise that adults will be entitled to secondary education. I believe that the proposal of the Labour Party and the SV is no. So 2 is superfluous, and hopefully it can be pulled. Furthermore, I have noticed that the same parties had expected concrete proposals for changes to the offer structure, as they express it in the cancellation. I think it was wise for the department not to go further than it has done when one sees the reactions to the proposals that suggest changes in the number of VK I courses and aggregations of basic courses. I would argue that the start of the two new basic courses in commercial subjects and media/communications from the autumn of 2000 is at the limit of the soundness of the quality assurance of the content and the further course. On the basis of an overall assessment and processes within the Committee, the central lots are included in the decision. However, I expect the Ministry to inform Stortinget whether it would prove that this would not be appropriate to start the next harvest and to refer to the Committee's comment, where it says: ‘The Committee further points out that it is important to ensure active participation from the industries and the parties in the design of the basic training course and beyond, and suggests that this should be done before the basic training course is started.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e637	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e642	Marit Tingelstad was in on this with a special run. We have a proposal that we have so far – now we have received support from the Right – on our own, namely to allow for more use of special situations. As I said to the Right, this applies to small subjects, subjects that have recruitment problems, and to students who are struggling with the traditional way of learning, namely, two years in school and two years in a apprenticeship, and who may need a different course to reach a professional letter. Now it'll be a little easier for the students to choose this way to graduate letters. My question to Marit Tingelstad is: Will the Central Party support such a proposal, so that you can get a little more flexibility and make it a little easier for the students who are struggling to reach a letter today? Then I have another question, which goes on national lines, which also Marit Tingelstad was in. The working party and SV are on their own about a note that relates to national lines and national lines; we distinguish between national lines and national lines. We recognize that the country lines were necessary to ensure some subjects, some courses and some offers. But what it's important for the Workers' Party and SV to clarify is that we want to ensure this primarily by nationwide lines, that is. by cooperation between the county councils, that county councils which have subjects and areas under threat shall be forced into cooperation with a view to safeguarding them, instead of establishing a state system, which, in spite of everything, the county lines are located next to the county council. My question to Marit Tingelstad is: Does she agree with the way to look at this, that the primary thing must be to stimulate and try to get the county councils to establish cooperation on nationwide lines rather than to establish more national lines?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e651	First, I would like to take the opportunity to give tribute to the representative Rolf Rikvam for the activity he has shown in the work on the adjustment. The representative has a very good insight into higher education, and he has contributed very constructively. We are part of the comments on this with special runs, and we also fully agree with what SV has said here. I have come to the conclusion that it is inconsistent not to be part of that proposal. Now you could say that when the comment is so profound and there's such a large majority behind it, there's no need for a decision of your own, but it has something to do with the cuty of the Stortinget. I will therefore support it. In particular, we have pointed out from the Centre Party that some subjects have clearly fallen outside these four-five years that Reform 94 has worked. I can quite specifically mention a subject as a trade. There's nothing left of it now. It's a very important subject to take care of the cultural heritage. We hope that something can be done about it. It is sad that such subjects should be lost because of a reform that is somewhat square. In the case of landlines, I share far on the way Rolf Requam's assessments of it. But I have to remind you that the Storting because of the lack of willingness of management in the last period ‘forced’ some lines of land in order not to lose the offer. I mention e.g. folk music. In principle, it is much more correct that there should be nationwide lines, but unfortunately the states have not always shown enough willingness to cooperate there. I think that we can have some landlines and otherwise stimulate to land-wide lines.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e662	To the extent that government parties have highlighted some of their own educational policy profile in the debates here in Stortinget in the last year, emphasis has been placed on greater flexibility, greater room for local adaptation and individual adaptation. That's why I have two questions for Marit Tingelstad. One is how she views the proposal that has been made by the Right and the Progressive Party, No. 13, which gives a modest right for students to resume exams in subjects where the grade remains on the final diploma. In today's system, it is excluded. It is a relatively limited form of individual freedom that is open here, but it is nevertheless important for the students concerned. The second question concerns the comment made by Marit Tingelstad that it is wrong to reduce the general theory in professional studies. Now, in fact, that is not the main point of the proposal that the Right and the Progressive Party have promoted. The main point is to mark a stronger professional device of the theoretical knowledge part of the training. And the reason we've done that is because it's pointed out in the evaluation that it's a fundamental problem that 15-20 pst. first of all, students in vocational education have a motivational problem in continuing general theoretical learning after 10 years in primary school, and second, students have such weak assumptions from primary school that they also fall through for this reason. What is Marit Tingelstad's solution to that problem? There is little point in insisting that the map is correct if the terrain is unable to fit the map.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e671	The right has clearly indicated that they want a lot in school policy. It remains to be seen whether they get other parties, so that the great promise promised by the Right in the election campaign is really made. We – I’m going to speak for my own party – have been very busy doing something about school content, not least in youth. We are very pleased with the signals that have come into the state budget in that area, and we are very pleased with the emphasis this has received in the big message that we are dealing with today. So to the question of the situation that one can't resume exams as many times as Right wants, and that was possible before. There was actually inflation in this, one took up again the exam on the exam. There's one unfortunate effect of that. It also led students to actually speculate in resuming exams in subjects in which they did not have strong depression, and thus gathering points. We didn't think that was a practical and good way to do it. We think it is much more important that more emphasis be placed on work during school time than on giving so much attention to exams. So to that end by reducing the general theory. I cannot understand that this is not what the Right Party and the Progressive Party propose. Then I'll have to explain it one more time. At least that is both said and expressed in the proposal. The view of the centre party on this is that it is important that all students gain insight into the common general subjects. But I'm aware that not everyone can do it. At 20 pst. wearer, yes it was just to lack, I kept saying, because in the past these 20 pst.-men in school didn't go at all, so it's natural that a lot wears. That's why we're very concerned about professionalism, differentiation, training a lot more, and it's very clear in the comment on sub-competence and other competences.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e683	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e686	Reform 94 is in many ways the end of the reform work started by the Law on Higher Education in 1974, which was launched on 1 January 1976. In addition to the 1980s, several structural adjustments were made, especially for the general professions. The freedom of choice of students was extended, an open-ended freedom of choice across the division of lines. Reform 94 is both a structural reform and a content reform. The structural part covers, first and foremost, professional subjects. The content reform covers all the study directions. The evaluation clearly shows that we have succeeded with the structure part. Several choose occupations, and fewer go across. More than before, you can get to a degree letter. However, there is concern that almost one third of all professionals do not reach the planned final qualification during the four-year or five-year training period. There are considerable variations in the number of apprentices and students lacking to reach final competence. I am therefore pleased that the Committee has taken the problem seriously and gathered on two important amendments from SV. The Committee has recognised the need to establish a level of final competence under a letter of formal notice. Not everyone can or is motivated to plan a course of training which will result in a letter of formal qualifications in the course of four or five years. It is important that these students also, after completion of their education, have an education which is accepted as a skilled person in relation to the labour market. It is also important that education is built up in a way that makes it easy to build on to letter. It is now up to the Ministry, together with the social partners, to make proposals on how this can be done. Exciting experimental work has already been done in many counties, which must be part of this work. I also expect the Department to work quickly, so that the level of education will be introduced into the law as soon as possible. I am also pleased that everything now suggests that the proposal that we were on our own in the Committee will now have a majority. By the way, it should just be missing after what was said, among other things. in the campaign. We're in a situation where small apprenticeships are threatened. Other subjects, such as construction, have poor recruitment in many places. One way to prevent old and important cultural subjects from dying out may be to open up alternative races. Two years in school and two years in education are the main model, and it has to be fixed. However, we have to accept that there should be an opportunity to make other races, for example. to save trades or to ensure recruitment in areas of the country where one is unable to get enough students to establish classes within the system and within the main course. It is also important to recognise that not all young people are equal. We learn differently. Some students will have problems starting with two years of emphasis on theory and then finishing the more practical training in the company. If it goes as it is now pointed out, we will have a majority for proposal No. 25, which is an embellishment of the somewhat rigid structure, i.e. more flexibility. This is a proposal that the Right has now said they will vote for, and I am pleased about that. What surprises me is that the Right needed the whole summer vacation to discover that this was an embellishment of what they used to call the A4 school. Where we have come short is the content reform itself. It will be wrong when this recognition leads us to choose to lower the level of ambition rather than to take into account the conditions that prevent greater student participation in the planning, implementation and evaluation of teaching. We in SV have taken the results of the research seriously, pointing to some issues that we need to address. We cannot achieve a comprehensive content reform in which we must establish new forms of work and democratize education, without doing anything basic with the forms of assessment. There have been changes during this period, but we have to make more extensive changes to the entire assessment system. To believe that we should create a new school, but keep the evaluation system from the old one, is at best a gross misunderstanding. Why did we do better with the reform of childhood than with the rest of education? I am absolutely sure that part of the answer lies in that one at the nursery has cut out individual grades. I also think we have to do something with the traditional textbook. Unfortunately, I don't have time to say so much about it, but I'm taking up the suggestions that we've made in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e712	Rolf Rikham has taken up the suggestions that he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e717	Like what the representative Tingelstad did in a reply to SV instead, I would like to commend the representative Rikham for his active contribution in a constructive way and thus gain an impact on part of the SV's positions. But we just have a campaign where I participated, among other things. in a number of school choices and were kept away from representatives of the party SV, with the fact that they distanced themselves from the Party's school policy and produced SVs as an alternative. Therefore, I would like to take the opportunity to ask the representative from the Swedish Parliament to confirm that the Workers' Party and SV are united on basic positions in school policy, and that SV has in fact co-operated with the Workers' Party in the design of all the school policy reforms during the years SV has been represented on the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e724	This was not small. I do not know if it is a confession the representative wanted from me, but in any case: With regard to the setting we are currently dealing with, and also the settings we have been working on in recent years, I agree with those who have said that the main dividing lines of Norwegian policy in the field of education are between SV, the Labour Party and partly between the parties, the government parties, on the one hand, and the Right and Advance Party on the other. So, of course, there's a lot of other dividing lines. We do not agree with the Labour Party in all education policies. It was just supposed to be missing! But when you read this setting, most people will probably see that the Working Party and SV agree on a lot of comments. I regret that the Labour Party does not always follow us when we are going to draw conclusions and design them in concrete proposals. We can look at grades, where we probably have a slightly different view, in that we think that grades inhibit the development of the school and make us not get to the educational innovation that we want. And we have examples of that. I should like the Labour Party today to vote in favour of our proposal on the structure. Now it might come to that they do, but I would probably wish they were also originally involved in this proposal, where we add up to more peculiarities and open up for a little more flexibility, a somewhat softer structure than the one we have today. Now it might well be that the Workers' Party supports us. But in general, I would say that in the major and important cases that have been dealt with in recent years, the Workers' Party and SV have found each other in important and key issues. I can confirm that, I have no problem with that, and I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e731	The representative, Mr Reikvam, said in his speech that reform 94 has a structural reform and a content reform: a structural reform, above all in the professional field, a content reform in both the professional and the general field. And one of the main anchor points on the Right's side, which I've been to before, is that neither the SV, the Government nor most other parties are willing to take the consequences of the results of this content reform, or the lack of it. When 77 pst. by the teachers, it is harder to keep up with the same level – and this is an examination among 800 teachers – which before the reform, reaches 63 pst. Teachers have lowered the expectations and levels of the weakest students, so that the weakest grades are even weaker than before the reform, and when each fourth learner avoids giving impression characters so that students can get their professional letters, there is reason to call out a warning. I want to ask the question whether not the representative Rikham sees these problems, or whether he does not want to admit them. In case he thinks that this is a problem, how far will SV go to pay for the professional standard sink? I am also pleased that the representative is busy with the small subjects, and he has previously said that this with flexibility is important. Then it's a little bit surprising that SV, among others, has such a negative view of the important national lines that we have in this system. The representative prescribes the country-wide lines under the direction of the county council, but I believe that if we are to be able to take part of the small subjects, we need to have even stronger national lines that are directly underpinned by government governance and funding than today. Does the representative share that view?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e740	I noticed that the Right wants the most centralistic school possible, as far as possible to the State and as many country lines as possible. We don't want this. We want a county education system, and we want to force the county councils to work together, to cooperate on small subjects, on offers that are threatened. I can't understand why it's desirable to centralize this to a state level, but it's a nice thing to do with what's the whole Right School Policy thinking: it's centralism, it's country lines the state has to take over, it's more grades, it's more syllabus, so-called traditional syllabus, science, etc. And then they define this as level and level reduction. In every generation we say that the level was so much higher when we went to school. We've always said that. And we know that everything was much better before, and that was especially good during the war. The vision that Petter Løvik and Right express is the traditional view that every generation has, that everything was better before. I'm quite convinced of one thing, that the high school we have today provides an education offer that, professionally and scientifically, at least is on the level of what Petter Løvik and I got at school. I am quite convinced that my children, who have passed through high school, went considerably deeper into certain disciplines than what I ever did in the old high school. So this, that some teachers think that the level of education has gone down, I'm taking a pinch of salt. I am dealing with the research that is available, which shows that we are struggling to implement the content reform in some areas, and unlike the Right, we have been so bold that we are trying to point to the areas that are problematic and with which we want to do something. We're afraid to point out that we have to look at the curriculum. It's not the right hand side, and it's also part of the centralistic way of thinking about it, as the right hand side does.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e747	I have to say that I was not a little surprised when I heard the representative Rikvam's reply to the representative Konglevoll in the previous row, when he said that the Labour Party did not follow us in the conclusions. No, it would only be lacking if we were to follow the SV in all of the SV's conclusions. On the other hand, we in the Committee have worked closely together and reached common conclusions in most areas. There are only two small areas on which the representative points, but they are not followed. There are several areas in which we have managed to arrive at common solutions, and therefore the conclusion drawn by Reikvam is very strange. The representative, Kollevoll, pointed out that when we discussed school policy in the election campaign – we who were in the election campaign anyway, now I don't know if the representative was Reikvam – it was a one-sided run from SV's side that everything was wrong with our school reforms. I actually don't experience that when we discuss the forms of schooling in this room. I have a difference between the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party, and there is so much more to SV has when it comes to action to be taken in connection with new reforms. I thought I would come back to this later, but I can now say: The comments that are in the setting and that come out in proposal No. 25 from SV, of course the Workers' Party is on. There has only been a small leap in the Committee's work on the setting, and then SV tries to present it as if they were alone with the positions and opinions attached to proposal No. 25-digit number That's not correct.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e759	This question from Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen puzzled me a little, because I tried initially to draw up where the main dividing lines went, and said that in addition there were some other dividing lines, but that we in SV have been together with the Workers' Party in important matters in recent years. We can take as an example ‘Towards Richer Goals’. There we broadly agreed on the main conclusions, and we broadly agree with the main conclusions on the work undertaken in the evaluation of reform 94. We in SV were followers of Reform 94. We thought it was important to get that reform. In my post, I tried to withdraw the lines to the 1974 and 1976 secondary education law, and that this had to culminate in many ways in the extensive structural reform that we have been in for. Basically, we weren't very happy to get the six-year-olds into school. We primarily wanted them to remain in kindergarten, but we were in favour of Reform 97. I think it's a little strange that it was perceived as not recognizing that we've been united on important educational policy reforms. We have done so, and in some matters of important reforms, we have also had dealings with the middle parties. On the right, we've never really been involved in anything that means reform, change in the education system. To the extent that we have brought them, it may have been to bring something back to what was earlier. I feel that this should be a good enough answer. We've been working together on important parts. As for what was said in the election campaign – I was actually out in the election campaign, if it could be a pleasure for someone – I didn't hear anything such as that the SV went into the Workers' Party in a particularly strong way. But I cannot be held responsible for everything that was said in the election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e769	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e772	At the time of the adoption of the secondary education reform, the Left was critical of some aspects of it. In a hurry to implement a reform that was necessary in many ways, the individual student lost sight, the system became the most important, and one forgot to listen to those who were to implement the reform, namely the teachers. In all school structure planning, it is important to bear in mind that the students are not a mass, the so-called student mass, but that there are thousands of individuals who have very different abilities, assumptions and, not least, want to be educated. We record that the evaluation showed that the Left was correct in many ways. Lack of flexibility, theory teaching that does not take into account students' different assumptions and frustrated teachers are some of the points made in the report. Although the reform is successful in many ways as all young people now receive an offer of training, and many more complete secondary education and receive study or professional competence, it is now necessary to do something to adapt the system to the many different students for whom the reform is for. According to our assessment, it is precisely this that has been the main message in the announcement made by the Government and that the Storting is now essentially agreeing to. The most important thing about Reform 94 was that all 16-year-olds were given a right to secondary education. The left was in favour of this, but has always worked to ensure that the court could be taken over the four years allocated to it. Now that the legal framework is being extended by one year and the right to re-election is guaranteed, we see this as very important in order to increase the freedom of choice for individuals and to ensure that fewer falls away from the wrong choice. Not everyone knows if they'll be car mechanics, dentists or pastors when they're 15. Many more students who need extra follow-up have caused problems in many schools. We get despaired calls from teachers who want to return to the old days, before the reform. That's definitely not the way to go. Instead, we need to develop good models of differentiation in education, better individualisation and more vocational theory teaching, as the department suggests. But this time, the development is to be done with the teachers and the students at the individual school in the driver’s seat. That teachers should have greater educational freedom is something left has fought for too long, and we are very pleased that the majority of the committee is in favour of unlocking the detailed management of today's curricula. It is true, as someone has pointed out, that this big message does not contain many words specifically about the general fields of study. This is quite natural because the reform has led to major changes in the professions. However, I think it is important to stress that when we are now to focus more on content and individual subjects in higher education, the direction of study most people choose needs to be more focused. These include: It is important to ensure that the courses of study are really preparatory in the sense that curricula and what you really learn provide a good enough basis for further studies. We have to listen to the teachers who are struggling with a complex group of students. We need to use new educational tools to achieve this, and it requires good contact between the academic environments of universities and higher education institutions. I would have liked to have gone into many more areas of higher education, but with the five minutes measured, there won't be much time for that. I'm going to use the last few seconds to justify the Left's vote for some of the issues. We're in favour of all of the majority proposals except for VII. We agree with proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party and SV. The experimental school is important in school development and should still have its place in the Norwegian system. Preferably, the school should continue as a nationwide line, as the Workers' Party and SV add up, but, if necessary, the Landline Scheme may be an alternative. We also support proposal No. 9, from the Progress Party and the Right, to ensure free schooling. Here, the Left agrees in principle, but we believe that free choice of school should not go beyond a reasonable geographical distribution of the professional offer in higher education. Then I can add that we also support proposal No. Twenty-five, who has been up in this debate today, on special occasions. We think it is very important to take care of the small subjects, and we see that this gives an opportunity to do so. With regard to the introduction of the two new basic courses for which the majority is in favour, including the Left, we would stress the assumptions contained in the comments, namely that the active involvement of all stakeholders in the preparation of these basic courses and the further courses is very important. This is important to ensure that the offers are good enough for those who will take them.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e799	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e802	I have a great sense of the ideological basis on which the representative, Mr Fladmark, made his statement, namely that the school and education system are for the benefit of the users and not the other way around, and that it is therefore important to strive for the greatest possible freedom of choice for the individual. I listened with interest to her explanation of vote and greatly appreciate the fact that the Left will vote in favour of proposal No. 9, the principle of free choice. On the other hand, I miss a comment on some of the other proposals, which really apply to the exact same thing, namely the right of individual students to move freely in the system. I would therefore like to ask the representative, Mr Fladmark, whether she can also comment on proposal No. 13, on the opportunity for students to resume examination when it has a decisive impact on their future course of education. And similarly, on the basis of what she said that the theory part of the professional subjects should be more closely linked to the professional part, if she would also comment on the position of the Left on proposal No. 14th @item: inlistbox Finally, I would also be pleased if the principle of freedom in the Left would lead to the idea of voting in favour of proposal No. 11, to make the written siding training in the school optional.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e809	I can take the last question first. It is well known to the representative Wohning that the Left is based on the ideals of the target movement, and it will not be a great surprise to him that the Left does not support decisions that are going to weaken the new Norwegian society. As regards proposal No: 14, which goes on professional theory, I have a little bit of a problem understanding that proposal. I understand the big news and the government's proposals and the Committee's work on them, so that we just want to make the public sector more focused on the professions. That's exactly what the government adds up to, so I don't really see the need for that proposal right here. So to this that the Right has been concerned about in terms of students' rights. The left is a party that is concerned about the legal certainty of the individual, also of the students, but we're a little worried about the weight the right puts on the grades in high school. The trend now is that the grades mean more than they should for each student. Obviously, it's important for students to get a picture of where you stand in teaching, but teaching is aimed at giving learning, not getting a number. I think it's important that we put up the structures so that getting a number isn't essentially going to be going to school, but just learning. That is why we will not support such a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e818	I agree with Inge Wohnning that there was an icelet of an ideological position in this post to Helene Falch Flatmark. I feel that the Left is becoming more liberal in education policy as well. I guess it's not just here in the Storing we see it, we also see it around the counties. Clearly, this free choice of school has become an important issue for the Left. This is a purely urban phenomenon, of course, everyone knows that. A student in Skåk does not have so many options for school, school or any other way. The typical thing for Norway is that most students have a school in their community — at best. The important thing is to try to make sure that this school has the best possible offer and offers. It must be the goal that we have a school that's doing it, rather than driving forward such liberalist ideas about free school choices as what we see in Oslo – maybe even in Bergen, I don't know. Now there's a report from Oslo saying that the model of free choice that they've tried in Oslo is about to create A and B schools. Is the Left concerned about that, even though free schooling is a pure Oslo phenomenon? The councils have previously been out and said something about this as well. Is also the Left concerned that this could create a trend towards A and B schools, i.e. schools that are more popular and have a high application rate, while others have a lower application rate? Does the Left believe that this could also go beyond the offer they have at these schools? What, if any, will the Left do to prevent such a development in order to introduce free school choice?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e827	I'm surprised that SV interprets it so that the Left goes in the liberalist direction because we focus on the students. And flexibility I actually thought we were with SV about. With regard to the situation in Oslo, I'm not going to go into either the city council negotiations there or into the races that we're going to see in the future in terms of Oslo school. But the principle behind Left's decision on free choice, which we've actually had for many years, first of all, is that the students themselves know best what kind of school they want to go to. We don't want elite schools in any way, but we want to develop thematic schools, so that the states that have the opportunity to do so can offer students different offers, which will enable students to actually choose the subjects they want. That is what underlies our principle. And as I said, we don't want to deplete the districts. We assume that the geographical distribution of the courses should be good.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e834	We are very pleased that the Left will support the proposal on free choice of schools, proposal No. 9th@item: inlistbox In the case of optional side objectives, the representative said that it would not be possible to support it on the basis that it could weaken the newnorth, without giving any further justification. If we look specifically at high school, it's a fact that high school is no longer a sample school, but a school for all young people. A large part of today's school students are confused linguistically when they learn two ways to write Norwegian. This is especially so because the students are no longer as stymied in the writing language as they were before. In the view of the Progress Party, it is illusory to believe that the students are getting better at the main goal of learning the side goal. On the contrary, students need more time and opportunity to develop their own writing language, whether this is book goals or new Norwegian. In this way, voluntary side objectives could strengthen the new-neighbourhood of the municipalities and districts where appropriate. It is also a fact that more students than before in the Norwegian school have difficulty reading and writing, which makes training in written sidebars even more difficult. In view of these points, I think it is right that the Left – I hope – should also review the side objective and that we conclude by supporting our proposal. Lateral objectives may be offered as an optional subject, so that students are made aware of the target form in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e845	Now we had a debate about the side goal position in school just before the summer. I'm not going to repeat all my reasons from then on to support the teaching of side goals. But what I wish I had at least been right in this debate was to strengthen the side goal and the way it is taught in Norwegian, both main goals and side goals, instead of attacking one of the writing languages we have in this country. Even I have experience writing on both forms of the goal. I have been a bureaucrat and have seen how important the side goal is to write a good language. Now I'm talking about new Norwegian, which actually has a lot to add to us who have book goals as their main language. If it is the case that the Progress Party is actually concerned with language policy in Norway, I think they should stand with the Left and fight for a better Norwegian and not fight to get rid of parts of the Norwegian.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e852	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e855	The position we are discussing now, and the debate we are now in the middle of, shows that there is a broad consensus on the main action to be taken in the field of school policy, at least in the case of high school, and that the main action in Reform 94 was correct and good. It was right to reduce the number of basic courses and make the structure more transparent, so that the students could not search with light and light to get a real offer in high school. And it was right to introduce the right to secondary education. When we now evaluate the reform, it is also good that we are relatively united on these main pillars, and that we do not throw everything in just four to five years after we introduced the major reform. Then we'll have to bear in mind that the Right Party and the Advance Party in the debate have a different approach to this, that they argue for a school for the few, for the ones, and not as we do for the others, a school for all, for strong and weak students, for the village and town, and for boys and girls. There is a great deal of agreement on the reform. The most important thing we do is maybe that we are now jointly introducing a slightly greater flexibility and an opportunity to spend a little longer time taking out their rights. We introduce two new basic courses: commercial subjects and a subject in the media and communication. It is good that we are now able to speed this up and get this up quickly. But I'll ask the council to look at the expression mercantile subjects. I'm aware that it's the Storting that has launched the expression, but you have to be pretty up-to-date as a 16-year-old and quite conscious of being able to fill this expression with content. I would therefore like it to be possible to find a more trendy and timely name than just a mercenary subject. I think that would have been a strength. We also have to have a review of the overall structure, because it's not given that 15 basic courses are definitely the correct number. A majority, in which the government parties are not included, expresses concern in the vote that young people are becoming increasingly disadvantaged. We might have made a mistake when we reduced the number of hours of body training in high school. A proposal that is likely to be adopted has been made to consider increasing the number of hours spent exercising in high school. Although the government parties do not agree, I expect and hope that the government council will take this seriously. Overall, reform 94 is a good reform. The case has received a very good treatment here in the hall, and we get a very good tool to further develop the Norwegian school to get even better. After the last line change with the representative from the Left, I hope the Council of State can clarify what is the Government's view of this with free school choice. I think this is a purely left-wing phenomenon, so it would be useful if the Council of State could clarify what is really the Government's position on this. So finally, I had a reply earlier in the debate to the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen where I asked for a clarification and explanation of part of the Party's school policy. He failed to answer with the reason that there were so many questions, but went and sat down long before the speaking time was out. That is why I would like to be allowed to repeat those questions. So, the Progress Party claims that what they want is as flexibility and freedom within the school as possible, but they want exams in every subject. Let me ask you this in concrete terms: is it going to be more flexible or less flexible? I think it makes it less flexible, because then much more of the teaching is directed towards this one test, and then all the classes and all the school hours will look more or less the same. In the election campaign, Vice President Søviknes said, and it may still have in Stortingen for everything I know, that the Progress Party will introduce norms, standardised tests at different age levels, including for private schools. I am not a hot follower of private schools. But we have the Steiner School, which is built on a completely different pedagogy than the public school, which is built on not having this kind of test, and on having to teach more as children develop naturally. If such tests are introduced also for those types of schools, will they become more flexible or less flexible? It's likely that these schools will have to be laid down, because it's going to run counter to the ideology they're built on. I hope that the representative Knudsen, when he thinks about it a little bit, can elaborate these points in a three-minute post where he has a little better time. It would be very interesting to know what the Progress Party really wants. Do they want a more flexible school, or will they introduce these tools to make both private and public schools much more unified?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e874	I will be allowed to take some of my time to draw the attention of the representative Norvoll to the fact that he probably has a relatively weak perceptive ability to remember who is discussing school policy in this matter, as he clearly considers a somewhat violent debate in the election campaign to be what is going on, and not what has been said here in this Chamber in the last two years. I hope that we will enjoy the continued presence of the representative Norvoll among us, and that he will not stand in some condition of health and wait for treatment for this problem. In concrete terms, when it comes to the evaluation of reform 94, some have argued that this was a content reform. Then you have to ask whether it was the qualitative content of high school that was to be reformed or whether there was a wish – as many documents show – for a faster flow and thus more education for more people at the same price. My conclusion on this is not to draw; it can be allowed to hang in the air. In the Progress Party, we have repeatedly put our finger on the importance of free school choice. Freedom of choice does not just mean free choice of building or geographical distance, but it has a lot to do with the individual student's real motivation for professional circles and the composition of disciplines. This we believe is a driving force for every human being to learn, to evolve for the future, to make it absolutely maximum out of the situation. In order to achieve a content reform based on free choice of schools, competition for professional circles, etc. We believe that we also need to have a much stronger element of school management. We have seen and seen for a long time through investigations by Olweus, Ogden and others. and last of an article on Sunday 3 October in the newspaper of a psychiatrist named Sandanger that more and more young people are experiencing severe depression and need to be treated for psychiatric disorders. This with school management must therefore be stronger in the image, with borderline, folk, respect for others and respect for themselves. School management must have the ability to intervene in the situation and help the student solve his or her own problems — and note: I do not say that the school manager or teacher should solve the problems for the student, but that they should give the student an understanding of how to solve their own problems. This, I think, is becoming more important and important in a complicated society. We know that about 50,000 children in primary school are freaking out every day to go to school. The number is not less in high school. I wish these things had been much more a part of the majority content reform than exactly what we have witnessed here today. In order to improve the learning environment, in order to increase the possibility of qualitative, professional learning, we need to get less bullying, less anxiety and nervousness among those participating, because we have seen and know from experience that all of this can suddenly be triggered in quite extreme violence episodes with knife use, etc. This does not want the Progress Party, and the Progress Party has been working over time to provide tools for the school people, where they can go in and do just these things. I hope that small conflicts of the kind that the representative Norvoll is trying to draw up can be set aside to solve the other problems that are much bigger, much more extensive, and that will be much more rewarding in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e887	The President will warn against characterising the abilities of other representatives in such a way as the representative did.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e891	A fundamental perspective on the issue we are discussing today is to give everyone who needs it the opportunity to receive further training that is tailored to the individual's needs. For me as Minister of Education, it is important to remove obstacles and stimulate and motivate active action at all levels. Willing to develop and put faith in their own ability to change must permeate the educational system. In this, there is a fundamental over-interpretation that the education we can offer will be of pleasure and benefit to the individual and to society as a whole. Another perspective is related to the creation of value in our society. We're going to live by the values we're able to create, and even though we're waiting for the Nordics to dwell on a rich nature, we have to recognize that the future is created by knowledge, competence, innovation and entrepreneurship – not just by gifts from nature. Experience shows that about 10 pst. the stock of the holding is replaced each year. If this development continues, only 15 pst. by today's holdings exist in 2020. This means that approx. 800000 in 2020 will be employed in enterprises that do not currently exist. Continuing training shall meet the challenges in such a way that those who receive training are not only able to go out into work and society today. They should also be able to participate actively in a future where only one is certain, that it's different from the time we're up against. The experience we have so far gained and evaluated in a broad process with all the parties involved – in addition to the research-based evaluation – shows that Reform 94 was a proper grip. Therefore, there is no need for fundamental changes at the current time. However, experience shows that adjustments and softenings are necessary in certain areas. That is the background for the changes I have submitted in the message – and as I register, I have received broad support from the Stortinget. I would also like to congratulate both the case spokesman and the committee on a thorough work that really shows great insight, the future and the future of higher education. I would like to mention some of the proposals from the Committee so briefly. The Ministry is working to fully follow up the Committee's proposal to set up two new basic courses in 2000, after it has been clarified by the Committee that these are professional courses. Apprenticeship plans are planned to be completed before the start of school in 2000. In accordance with the committee setting, work is done in close cooperation with the parties. But I have to pay attention to the fact that it will not be possible to keep completed textbooks, there will be little possibility of continuing training, and there will probably be problems with having the equipment in place. It is also beginning to receive letters from some municipalities and from the subject area that they think we should spend a longer time. But I'm prepared to follow up on what the Storting, the government and the social partners have said, and I'm working too hard to do in the best possible way. When it comes to the proposal to define the level of competence of elephants and apprentices who do not aim at professional or youth letters, I perceive it as not to define a single level of competence under professional or youth letters. I believe that this is an individual law arrangement, so that those who do not take a subject or a child's letter will be credited with the skills they have acquired and given proof of it. Work is being done in full cooperation with the parties. A number of members of the Committee believe that the main points of the curriculum should be deviable from pedagogical considerations. I agree that the use of the main moment is not consistent in all curricula. In some cases, the main technical aspects are too detailed, and I see that there is a need for a review and a clean-up of the curriculum over time. It will be done, among others. in close cooperation with the parties. All key methodologically normative elements shall be removed, while only the specific professional elements shall remain. In some cases, the main elements are based on special requirements and standards such as professional obligations, e.g.: certain types of certificates, and they cannot be made optional by the training. It is pointed out that the Storing Communication gives little reference to the direction of study for general, economic and administrative subjects. While it is true that much of the weight has been put on issues related to the profession, it is also those that were subject to the strongest changes in the reform. That was where the problems were greatest and the requirement for solutions most clearly. This does not mean that I am less busy with this direction of study than with the others. On the contrary, I am busy at the fact that the study orientation should be of a high professional quality. It shall provide room for both those who have run out of their way and those who have not yet decided for further choice of education and profession. The major challenge is to get the schools to take action to provide students with training that is consistent with their skills and needs. By taking the initiative of a broad focus on differentiation and organisation, including: use of state resources – I, together with the county councils, wish to contribute to the necessary development and renewal processes in each school.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e925	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e928	Governments have declared a great deal of change before and now, and it is very positive and good. But I have to be allowed to address a question related to the state budget that was submitted two days ago, and it goes on to the Council of State sketching out the right of adults to further training. There the government outlines that one should introduce a right, and my question is whether there is a legal right on the same line as the 16-19-year-olds have today. Furthermore, the Government outlines that it will change the scope regulation and the distribution criteria of the income system and that the Storting will receive, on the basis of this, an outflow proposition early next year. I would like to ask the Council of State whether he can make this concrete, because it is decisive in relation to the fate of our proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox Little has been said about ICT in this debate. In the election campaign, ICT was a major and important theme for the Government. The government strongly invested in its school package, and especially in ICT. I see that the school package is the most decorated for the base ball, and my question is: What about further education? Furthermore, what is the need for continuing training in the context of the follow-up to the reform, or does the Council of State see any major need for further training in that context? Then I'll discuss the theme of real competence. I know that the KUF has integrated the county councils into the work on real skills, and that they are developing guidelines for documentation and assessment of real skills. My question is whether this work has come so far that it is unproblematic to put in place the so-called curtailment or adapt further training from the next fall.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e937	First, until presented in the State budget. I want to confirm that I am going to give you a legal right, but a right that is defined closer. It is easy to say that when it comes to the right of adults, one can't simply relate it to the right of 16-19-year-olds, they know a number, and it's pretty easy for the county councils to plan it against it. If we look at the Buer selection, there are quite a number of people who need such a competence and a new chance, but if we look at Fafo's investigation, very few say they will use that right. So how do you plan? We want to have a flexible system. One is that by increasing support for the study associations through the reform of their competences, we are now opening up so that they can participate and give a new chance. But at the same time, of course, the county is still the main party. That's why we need to find a system that clearly increases capacity, but at the same time get an overview of how many people will take that right, so it's possible to plan. Here I can't go any closer than what's in the proposition, and what I'm saying right now. So I'll come back with this at the beginning of next year, and the economic consequences of the proposal will come into the revised national budget, with a view to starting at the fall. So it's mandatory what's in the budget, we're going to start the phase-in of this fall in 2000. I hope the representative Upbeøen Hansen can see it as a satisfactory answer so far. When it comes to the other questions raised by Upebøen Hansen, I am sorry that I spent so much time on this one and so important that I did not get any answers to them, but I would like to take them in a three-minute post later.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e944	I registered that the Council of State commented on the issue of the silence or the near-duration contained in the communication concerning the general field of study, saying that it should not be interpreted there that he is less interested in that part of secondary education, and then he added to: on the contrary. It must mean that he is more interested in it, and therefore I could imagine asking how this interest from the Council of State is going to be followed up in the continuation. The recently submitted State budget shows that higher education is actually the part of the education system that is not intended at all for any specific strengthening action by the Government. It's not, as far as I've been able to read to, any trace of any grip on meeting the challenges just at this level of the education system. The representative of Løvik mentioned in his main post earlier today some figures from a rather recent study of how high school workers assess the quality problem. Three-quarters of teachers say that they experience in their daily work that it has become significantly more difficult to maintain the requirements of professional standards. I understood the Council's reply to you that he was concerned about this. I also believe that the Council of State is concerned about the feedback that is getting clearer and clearer, namely that high school has become a smaller and less attractive job. This is a quite unambiguous form of evaluation. Therefore, my question is, how will the Council of States follow up its concern about this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e951	The main basis for further follow-up to reform 94 is, of course, the position of the Enlarged Committee in relation to this evaluation of reform 94. And there's a good deal of signal also compared to what the representative on the payroll picked up. Furthermore, there are several projects in progress. As the representative of Wage is well aware, we have been concerned that we should start an experimental and development work which should be largely built on the initiative below. And in the experiment we're doing there, there are several exciting projects that I would like to brief you more. And further, quality is something that we can define in many ways, quality is also that there are so many people who have a competence compared to before. We see today when it concerns character statistics, that there are not as dramatic numbers as it is sometimes expressed. In 1998 there was 91 p.m. professional and young people's tests. That's 9 pst. too small, but still. Characteristic statistics for basic and VK I in 1999 show that for pupils in vocational education systems who are the common general subjects, the proportion is slightly lower, but it is 89 pst. that have passed. So these talons can be used in a lot of directions. But what I think I'm talking about with the representative for pay is that each one that doesn't exist is one too much. For this reason, we are concerned about following up what has been said here, that we should be professionally more than we have been before, and thus also get the theory to fit better with practice.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e960	First, a question that goes on the small subjects. It seems that we now have a majority in favour of the proposal from SV, where we, among other things, start with the small subjects. The small subjects have their own training office. They are struggling, and it is a little important that this office has working conditions that enable them to do their job in relation to these small subjects. Will the Council of State ensure that they have financial opportunities to do their job? Here we talk about an important part of cultural heritage too – at least for a part of these subjects. The Council of State commented on the proposal for a level of professional competence. I broadly agree with his conclusion, but we must be very concerned about one thing, and that is the basic premise, that those who choose an education at this level, i.e. under a professional letter, should have a competence that is tailored to the needs of the business community. At least that's important. It shouldn't be so individual that you can't say that you take that education, you have a competence that allows you to do them and those jobs, and that business needs it and that type of workforce. It's important to bag. If we take care of it, I agree with the Council of State in his interpretation. So his comments about the curriculum. I broadly agree with his comments on the majority comment that went on the syllabus of methodology and all of this. It was kind of interesting, and I broadly agree with what he said there. So one last question, it goes on the content reform. The Communication concludes that one must lower the level of ambition. We might be able to discuss how clearly he writes it, but at least it's suggested that you should lower the level of ambition. My claim is that if we are to achieve a major change in content, we must also change a number of other aspects, namely the evaluation system, the assessment system and the textbook system. Does the Council agree that a major change of content cannot be achieved if we are to maintain the old character system, the old evaluation system and the old system of textbooks at the same time?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e971	First, to the small spheres. There is no problem with that proposal being accepted, because in my view it is in accordance with what I have written in the message about more flexibility for those who have problems with the main model. Likewise, it is also consistent with what has been said about the small subjects. It is important that the proposal says ‘can’, that not everyone who comes and wants to have a special race, but that there should be a proper review. So I think it's good that it's also clarified from the Stortinget's side. I don't mind. When there are resources, there are some resources inside. But it is clear that we have to go through what the Stortinget now decides, and then we have to come back with what we might need in addition to the proposals that are adopted here. When it comes to the level of competence, I am summed up in the deepening of my interpretation that was given, that of course it should be done in such a way that it corresponds to the fact that a person can also acquire a type of apprenticeship. So it was this with characters. There, the representative Rikvam knew that I would have liked to see that we had had tests and experiments with other evaluation methods. But the government and I have the position that as long as we have not tried out alternatives that have seemed more motivating and more able to create a kind of justice in relation to it with recording, I am not ready to conclude as the representative Rikham says. I follow him far on the way, emotionally and purposefully, but I think we need empirically, and we need a knowledge that there is a possible other dangerous way before we go as far as to conclude as the representative Reikvam does.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e982	I have two questions for the Council of State. One relates to the theory section in the professional field of study, which, after reform 94, increased relatively sharply. This led to the suffering of a number of theoristically weak students, who have done well in the past in professional studies, and in many ways, reform 94 failed this student group. How does the Council of State view the solution in relation to this? What can the Council of State do? Then teachers’ salaries are affected by the notification. It is a serious problem in some high schools that teachers have now become attractive workers for others outside the school system. Then, suddenly, there is a challenge in relation to the pay problem, perhaps in particular within the context of, for example, the issue of pay. maritime education, where the learning forces are strongly involved in private business. What tools does the Council of State think should be used to maintain competent teachers within the school? And can the Council of State in this respect be involved in assessing a transfer of pay bargaining responsibility from state to municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e989	I'll take the last one first – not quite the last one, because neither the sign nor the government have finished the distribution in relation to, I've told you to lie before the end of the year. But I don't think there's any automatic in that it leads to an increase in pay to transfer the negotiating responsibility, because if you look at the pre-school teachers, that's not exactly what our consequence is. So even if there are logical arguments for transfer, it's not that it automatically gives you extra pay. The fact that teachers are bought out is a problem, but it's also a little bit enjoyable. That sounds inconsistent, but that's true. It is good that we have teachers in Norwegian school who are so attractive that other professionals and professionals want them, we should be happy for that. But then we have to give the possibilities that make them also think it's exciting to be in school. One thing I think will be a good measure is the permit arrangements that we have now proposed in the budget. The fact that they actually get the possibility of a leave that can give them the new professional input, the possibility of hospitation in business and the like, is absolutely relevant for the real science and for the subjects that correspond and compete most with the business world. So we'll come back with the additional supplement of this in the recruitment message, which comes in this month. So to that with the theory part. Many people have been hurt because we haven't been able to do enough professionally. But at the same time, one can go to any industry and ask, can we reduce the theory part something here? So maybe 1 out of 50 would say yes, here they can lower the level. The others say no, for all things, they have to do more professionally, but they don't have to reduce the theory part, because we're going to have professionally good enough people who can compete internationally. Let me give you an example in the end: I experienced here in ours, in Italy, standing on the highway with a car that was rented, and there came a sort of Italian Falcon to help me. Then I thought to myself: If this skilled worker had had English as a compulsory subject in vocational training, I would have been able to communicate with him. I couldn't do that in the language at the time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1001	I would like to continue the conversation with the Council of State – I was not entirely satisfied with the answer he gave instead. When he was to follow up his declared interest in the development of the general course of study, he immediately went over to talk about matters relating to the professional course of study. Once again, I would like to ask the Council of State to deal with the figures mentioned when it comes to the assessment of the teachers. You have to assume that, after all, the teachers are still the best people who know the terrain in school. And this actually applies to questions that the government itself has asked the teachers and received an answer, but as it seems he is not particularly interested in taking seriously. When there are three-quarters of teachers who say that the level problem is a real problem, it seems a little easy to say yes, but quality can be defined in many ways, as the council says. It is a fundamental problem that we face if the feedback from those who are going to pursue higher education, namely teachers and students, is that there are major problems, while the Council of State and the majority in this Chamber declare that there are really no major problems at all, because in many ways this debate has been a startling competition to raise the level of satisfaction as high as possible. But it had certainly been better if the level of satisfaction in this room had been moderate, and the level of satisfaction in school had been higher. It must be a problem for the Council of State if he himself is satisfied that the majority of the population are satisfied, while those who work at school are very dissatisfied?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1010	Now it is not surprising that the representative was not entirely satisfied with my answer, although at the same time I agree that it could have been more complete than it was, but I have two minutes. By default, it is quite clear that there is a slightly different view of the Government Party and the Right. But yet I'm going to go into what he's now raising, first the teachers' assessment. First of all, if there's something I've been busy about after I took over, it's having a close dialogue with the teachers, and that's also why the questions are asked. Of course, I am worried about some of the answers I have received. And why are answers as they are? I think one of the reasons is that the pace of implementation was the way it was, and that a situation arose that was too bad for dialogue. I can only take the fight in relation to the training book, which in the professional field had a very good foundation, but which was obvious a situation where there was almost a war situation instead of a dialogue situation. There is no doubt that it has our say in relation to the answers that came. I am of course serious about this. So on when it comes to the level: it turns out, even after Reform 94, that in the international investigations we've been in, it's not that we can measure any decline, nor from a professional level in the TIMSS, for example. But at the same time we know that there's something between 10 pst. and 15 pst. which wears hard. It's clear that I'm upset, and it bothers me more than if it should be so that the very best have not been as good as they could have been. So we're putting a lot of money into a project now, which we're going to spend 15 million. the budget, which is differentiated, and to look at methods of teaching which are more serious in terms of differentiation. So it's happening again in collaboration with the teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1021	The cord shift has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1024	Most education policy reforms are characterised by the fact that there are many who are critical when the reforms are implemented, but then a few years pass, and then it turns out that it was quite clever anyway. So is Reform 94. The few would disagree with the fact that there were some basic problems in higher education before reform 94. The evaluation presented shows that the reform has recently cleared up these problems. The rating fixing process has worked well. While more than a quarter of the students previously walked across the system and took a basic course after a basic course and less than half of the students were able to achieve either study or professional competence after three years, the flow rate has increased sharply. The overall set completed between 80 and 85 pst. by students who started in 1994, during the years they had to take out their rights. And the number of classrooms has doubled at all, and for the 17-to-19-year-old group, actually, the number of classrooms is more than quadrupled. That is why there is a broad majority here in the Chamber that concludes that reform 94 has been a good reform and that we have achieved the goals we set. That doesn't mean everything in high school is perfect. And precisely because Reform 94 is in a way the Workers' Party's children, the Workers' Party has decided to be in the front when it comes to making higher education even better, not least because higher education is now facing a major challenge, namely the reform of continuing education. Here, in the Labour Party, we believe that we need to have a right in place for everyone, and that this phase is over time, and that this must be followed up by the fact that the county council is better able to meet this challenge. Secondly, although we have seen a sharp increase in the number of apprenticeship places, lack of apprenticeship places is still a problem. Especially for those students who need extra organisation. And here, as the Right wills, it doesn't keep removing the employer's fee. It's not going to solve the problem, for example. it is part of the country where there is no employer’s fee. What is needed is to continue close cooperation with the social partners, and the public sector must also take greater responsibility for the inclusion of apprentices. Thirdly, we haven't come far enough in terms of content. Here we only have to acknowledge that changing the content and implementing changes where students have a greater responsibility to design the teaching is a process that takes longer than implementing the structural changes. But I must say I am deeply disappointed when the Government and the majority choose to dampen the level of ambition in student participation. The reasons given by the Government for subduing the level of ambition are also quite alarming. On page 96 of the message you say: ‘Questions can be asked whether the students are mature enough to be motivated to be active in this type of planning.’ These are actually students between the ages of 16 and 19! I would like to remind you that many of those who attended high school in 1997, who were between 17 and 19 years old at the time, actually agreed to vote in favour of the Stortinget, while the Government clearly believes that they are not mature enough to plan their own education, and that's pretty bad. Finally, I just have to comment on the response of the representative Lyngstad to my reply. In his reply, he tried to explain that the Christian People's Party does not agree with the proposal on top-school education because we have mentioned the private upper secondary schools in the proposal text. What we are asking for is an assessment of how private upper secondary education and the corresponding provision in the public sector should be organised in the future, while government parties say in their comments that ‘the need for further organisation of top-level education should be identified’. And then I expect that when you say top-notch education, both the private and the public offer is meant. That is why there is no major disagreement between us, and then that part of the proposal remains where one asks for a review comparing the grants to the national lines and the upper secondary schools. And as the representative Lyngstad said, it's not easy to figure it out. When the North Travel Line tried on a calculation, they also found that it was difficult. That is why we are asking for an account from the Department to compare and evaluate the grants that top-level gymnasiums receive with what public services are offered. And I don't understand why the Christian People's Party and the rest of the government parties can't be in it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1044	There's a lot of ways to evaluate it. In general, research-based evaluation is a good method, and the research-based evaluation carried out on the basis of which the notification is made is, as far as it goes, sufficiently sound. However, there are other methods of evaluation that are sometimes even more interesting. And the most important thing about evaluating the school's development is, of course, how attractive the school is as a job. In the years since the introduction of reform 94, developments in this respect have been almost ambivalent. School has become a smaller and less attractive workplace. And it seems obvious that special secondary education is in the process of being in a regular crisis with regard to access to qualified teachers. This applies in particular to that part of the teaching staff where the qualification requirements are highest, i.e. teachers with primary vocational training. We are facing a situation in Norwegian secondary education that is really quite dramatic. Over the next 10-15 years, two thirds of the teachers who have the highest level of competence will be out of school. And the recruitment at the bottom, by teachers with similar skills, is practically dried up. It is also a form of evaluation that should be of great interest to us. Yes, it is actually a much more interesting form of evaluation than the general discussions on whether a reform is successful or less successful. What is absolutely certain is that if secondary education, which is the necessary intermediate stage in a education system where a larger and larger proportion of young people also continue to enter higher education after the age of 19, is to be a support member of such a training system, then the most important condition for having a sufficiently competent and motivated teacher staff is that. The Council of State wrote the following in a reply to a written question on 24 June last year to the representative Løvik concerning some of the frightening figures that have emerged in terms of professional achievements at the university level: ‘One of the reasons for the high iron percentage may be that the professional basis of continuing training is generally weak.’ It may affect the Council’s response today as if he no longer believes what he wrote in June last year in this area. But it actually exists after the time numbers that are even more disturbing. In the current year, the introduction test in physics on one of the central lines of NTNU, which is Norway’s flagship for technological education, showed that 70 pst. of the new students deleted — and it is worth noting the best students, those with real-life depression from high school. Last year the number was 60 pst. Then, as the Council of State does, you can't minimize the problem by saying that there's a small group that's having trouble hanging out with. One must then be able to see the writing on the wall, that this is a rather comprehensible feedback that there are significant professional level problems in today’s Norwegian secondary education. Over the past 15 years, Norwegian Mathematics Councils have given a number of relatively simple mathematical approaches to a representative sample of those coming out of higher education, exactly the same tasks each year. And the trend over the last 15 years is clearly negative. There's going to be an increasing proportion of people who aren't able to solve even elementary math problems, despite the fact that they have real-life depression from high school. I believe that if the Stortinget deals with a report on secondary education in general, and it would be largely a matter of exchanging congratulations between themselves and competing for who can be most satisfied with what has been achieved politically, then there is something about the lack of real-life contacts. It almost reminds me of what the holy synod in Moscow was doing when the revolution came in 1917; then they sat and discussed reforms in the liturgy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1066	It is very positive what has emerged in today's debate, that there is a broad welcome here in the Grand Duchy both on the communication that the Council of State has promoted in the context of the evaluation of reform 94, and on the position of the majority of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Government Parties, while the Progress Party, well followed by the Right, isolates itself. The right has also not found it necessary to have its own proposals for solutions, but today supports the proposals that come from the Progress Party. However, the representative now concentrates most on teacher mobility – and it is affordable. I agree that we are facing a major problem. And that was also the reason why the Workers' Party's Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen proposed that a recruitment message should be presented to the Stortinget, which we unfortunately had to wait a bit too long for. But when Inge Wohnning now says that he doesn't focus on research anymore, because it's kind of immaterial compared to concentrating on teacher mobility, I would say that Inge Wohnning has previously used a lot of muscles to go straight with the follow-up research that was the basis for the evaluation that went into a message. But what I see as essential that we can now continue is that we go in and look at how learning happens, and how the teacher's role must be in a new era. And then there's a lot of old principles that might come up again, the old school principles that you actually learn when you do something, you learn through business, so we don't make any artificial distinctions between theory on the one hand and practice on the other. It's true, as many people have mentioned here, that there are many people who don't get enough in high school, and who go straight into unskilled jobs. But it could also be that many of them actually can, but they are not included in a learning process that makes them evolve. That's some reason why we so strongly clarify that there has to be a connection between society, school and work. I would now like, when we are in front of the beginning of a new millennium, to be able to work actively to make schools truly knowledgeable, to become smaller schools in the traditional sense and more open service institutions with knowledge dissemination, so that high school can provide both full-time and part-time education, to provide education and other help to adults who also conduct self-study both at and outside the school. They should provide information in their fields, preferably to anyone who wants it. I hope that the Council of State will now bring with it the new reform, the reform of competences, because there are so many adults who have not had opportunities in the past, and make sure that the secondary school provides proper training that they too can find suitable. Finally. As far as the situation of teachers is concerned, it is not enough, as Inge Wohnung has come up with, up the pillars and down the walls, to focus only on wages, you also need to see what the exact working situation is. This is why several of us have said that we need to go directly to primary school — both in childhood and in childhood — to see how to give teachers more help in sharing responsibility. And here we haven't heard so much from Inge Wage.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1084	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1087	This four-year status report on higher education with Reform 94 shows, as has been said several times today, that the reform has been largely successful. Among other things, pupils' re-elections, cross- and non-responses have been greatly reduced. I want to take up only one matter with the background of my party's comment and my own conviction that should be followed up as soon as possible. The number of hours spent in body training must be increased, preferably at all stages of the year. The general curriculum of the school states that experience, practical skills and arrangements that can give positive and lasting attitudes are to be taken into account in education. The curriculum in body training is a tribute to activity and joy, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The ‘seat’ shall cause the ‘seat man’ to experience the joy of breaking away from rigid roles and routines’. Further: Communicate the good experience by training through sports, dance and open-air life experiences, experiences and insights that make him want to exercise throughout life-removing health problems such as lifestyle diseases and stress disorders In such a goal-driven curriculum, both time and knowledge are needed to achieve the objectives of the curriculum. In this context, the difference of two and three weeks is large and perhaps decisive. I know from a long experience in teaching that it is not easy to provide students with a basis for lasting interest in trim and training. It can only be a power if the students experience the joy of different kinds of physical activity. The school’s task is increasing by documenting declining physical activity through serious research reports. I show you, among other things: to the report of May 1998 on the physical activity of young people, with Gunnar Breivik as project leader. Two reports published by the Landslag Physical Fostring in School clearly show the negative development of the physical exercise subject after Reform 94. The results of these studies must be taken seriously! As a representative with special responsibility for health policy, I must stress the following: 20 000 people in Norway have cancer every year, and the number is increasing every year. Within 50 pst. by those who develop cancer, die of their cancer. In Norwegian cancer plan, it is concluded that approx. 40 pst. of cancer cases may be associated with poor diet and lack of exercise. Think if we could influence youth exercise and diet habits so much that you could avoid approx. 8 000 cases of cancer each year. In this context, I would like to remind you that through high school we reach over 90 pst. of all youth.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1117	There are a few areas in which we have been little involved in this debate. It relates to ICT and it relates to the re-education of teachers. When it comes to ICT, it's one of the most important tools in the future for an equivalent school. The curriculum needs to point out that students should be able and able to use modern information technologies in the training of different subjects, both in professional and general subjects. ICT as a tool in training provides great access to information, as we know. At the same time, it provides room for flexible solutions with regard to time and location. The Committee points out that in Denmark a so-called ‘educational data card’ has been developed for teachers. It must be possible to see if it is appropriate to transfer this to our school. In the case of continuing training, it is important that there is a wide focus on the training of teachers, not least in the context of the follow-up to the reform. As soon as technology and society change, as the Council of State was also involved, there will also be a need for continuous training of teachers. The aim must be to enable all teachers to keep up-to-date in order to enhance the quality of their education. Here I would also like to point out the importance of developing exchange and hosting schemes in companies. This will also strengthen cooperation between schools and working life. When it comes to the training of apprentices, I would like to stress that the training of instructors is an important prerequisite for good quality. Therefore, neither the State nor the County State must deviate from the instructor training. In my reply to the Council of State when it comes to our proposal No. 2 on the phase-in of further training of adults, I – and we have clarified this before – clarified that it is a very important matter for the Workers' Party, and I found it very positive that it now seems to be going into real pain. I take notice of the Council of State's response and signal that our proposal is no. 2 will be sent, and explain it according to the Government's response to my reply.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1136	I have noticed that the Right and Advance parts of the configuration propose to make the page target training optional. In Norway, we have a lot of dialects. It's a wealth we'll take care of. Among other things, there are two target forms and the school is to ensure training in both. This means that if there are weaknesses in some subjects, we must not react to removing the difficult one, but rather strengthen our skills there. Only in this way can Norwegian schools in general and the Norwegian profession in particular develop to improve. At least the Right Unity is required. In any case, parts of Right before have declared that they are for a knowledge school. In his article on 31 August, VG commented on the leadership of Huitfeldt City Council in Oslo, which my city council will have optional side goals in the school: ‘If this is really true, it is just to say: Poor Oslo City Council – it must be overpopulated by representatives without sense of tradition and cultural values!’ So this is going to write VG. Otherwise, Bokmåls-Right stubbornly asserts that they are not against new Norse, only against mandatory page targets. But when mandatory side measures are the same as new Norse for 80 pst., what? The size has a responsibility for both target forms, and it is today the new-surgery that needs the most strengthening. We don't know if too many young people switch to literature, but we know that it's important that the teacher also has the necessary ability to learn from him. Therefore, it is also necessary to place a search light on teacher training. It is worth considering whether or not to strengthen the New Norse literature in school. Now, it's easy for teachers to remove authors who write in a new language, so that they get very little space in their curriculum. Language is an important part of our cultural defence – the defence of our culture. Here it is crucial to provide sound Norwegian training for all children and young people growing up in Norway in both forms. Therefore, this is also stated in Norwegian law. For the central part, it is completely inappropriate to reduce the size of the side dimension. the newnorse's place in the school. In such value questions, we never trade horses. We would rather look at what can be done to improve Norwegian training. With such a starting point, the Right is welcome to cooperate. Otherwise, there should be a greater commitment for several elephants to be able to start with new Norse training targets from the first class. Then book measures as side measures in the school won't be a problem at all.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1160	It may seem that the Council of State is a little sunny in the shine of the fact that such a large proportion of apprentices were led to a letter of formal notice. I want to ask the Council of State the question whether this is not largely due to the curriculum, because the plans I know today will be largely known to the candidate. When you used to go up to a diploma, you should know them. I don't believe business in death and life wants everyone to have a letter. There should be a certain quality of a diploma. It shall also provide evidence that the person is attractive in the labour market. So I repeat the question to the Council of State: does he not see that there is a connection between the large proportion who receive a diploma and the content of the curriculum? When the Progress Party emphasises that people’s culture should also be taught, I believe – and I would remind the majority – that it is important that young people, when they get out of work, have a basic knowledge of what is accepted in business. I don't think the majority is aware of what's really going on.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1170	The competitiveness of Norwegian business today — and perhaps even more in the future — is increasingly dependent on the addition of skills. Therefore, there is no particular doubt that Reform 94 has been a very necessary measure to train the labour needed by Norwegian businesses. The evaluation that has now been carried out shows that this has been a successful reform. But it is always the case that reform can be improved more and more. And there are many questions in this debate as to whether there is too much theory in the professions that we have. I do not conceal that I also get many such objections. But I'm going to say the same thing as I say to those who raise these objections, that if there's too much theory, then I'm going to recommend that you rather take a discussion about how the theory is passed on to those who take a professional course of study. The theory must be arranged, either in English or in other theoretical subjects, so that it has a professional connection. Then I'm absolutely sure the students who have chosen to be cooks or mechanics will have a completely different experience when it comes to learning the theory, whether it's in English or in mathematics. So I can't stress enough that it will be particularly important. Another aspect that will also be important is that the Norwegian industry is becoming more and more specialised, and that we are thus getting an increasingly large number of smaller subjects. Therefore, I cannot stress enough the value of proposal No. Twenty-five, that one also takes care of the small subjects, so that one in many states might be able to place the students in choice number. 2 or 3 or 4 because one does not want to take the cost of sending them away to take a smaller job as they like. For the best professionals we get, they're the ones who get to choose the subject they want. Then I want to say to Løvik and pay: I received my vocational training 40 years ago and well and well. And in this way, the reform is a quantum leap in both potential and quality.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1181	The debate today has shown that there is a broad consensus on the experiences and challenges of high school. The right in the debate has highlighted a great deal of interest in the public sector. The structural aspects are reduced by the Right, while the content reform is generally referred to as ‘level reduction’. But the picture is more nuanced than the right tries to make it. We have challenges, and the educational challenge is actually making teaching relevant and motivating students into active participation in learning processes. In this way, quality can also be improved. Then I want to say a little about the proposals and voting for the Christian People's Party. The Christian People's Party will vote in favour of the setting, but not for VII, as we want to see the question of several hours in the body exercise in conjunction with a review of the curricula. If we're going to increase the number of hours in body training, we also have to be willing to cut lessons in other subjects, and I'm really asking for clarification from the majority on that in this context. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party will vote in favour of proposal No. 25, from SV, on special courses for small subjects, etc. I am also pleased that the Workers' Party and SV have converted proposal No. 2 to a transmission proposal. The other minority proposals will vote against the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1194	Let me underline, as I also did in my first post, that there is very much good in Norwegian continuing training, and in many areas there are also improvements after reform 94, which Kjell Opseth was in the last session. But what disappoints me is that there is almost no willingness to admit that there are still large, unresolved tasks, and that on some areas there is a level drop, as the studies show. The County Council of Lilletun is tired of the fact that there is no greater percentage of iron. But after the government's own investigations, which have been carried out by professionals, this is partly due to the fact that the requirements have been lowered, as I pointed out in my main post. I again want to challenge the Council of State whether Lilletun’s 1999 vintage is in agreement with Lilletun’s 1998 vintage in that the professional basis for continuing training is generally weak. And in that case, what does he want to do with it? The government replied that quality is so lacking and that teachers respond negatively because they have been in too poor dialogue with previous government councils. This is at best out of the question. We have to take seriously both the signals that come from teachers in secondary schools, and the signals that come from universities and higher schools, about this level. We have put great emphasis on a broad understanding, and that is, of course, right - hand agreement. But we don't have to water down the spectrum of knowledge so that we forget the main purpose of continuing training: to provide a good professional basis. Then I would like to address a little bit of a debate that we have had in the past and in part today on the character systems. In the 'Towards Richer Goal' option, the Labour Party said, among others. att ‘individual assessment using youth grades should be deleted in the long term’, and that ‘in assessment work, focus away from individual characters and on assessing the learning environment and learning work’. The Labour Party used large parts of the election struggle this summer to grow away from this position. Then there is reason to ask questions about the comments that the Labour Party is making today, where one says: ‘These members consider the use of grades to be unfortunate because it may lead to an excessive focus on parts of the curriculum that can again control the choice of training method.’ ‘tones down sharply and is replaced by assessment system in relation to the individual’s objectives’. Is this still on the table? Or is this also abandoned in the Norwegian Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1220	It is not true that this has been a debate on whether the reform has been more or less successful, as Inge Wohnung summarised it. This has been a debate about what kind of changes and adjustments we need to make in high school. Most of us who have spoken have been concerned about the kind of changes that need to be made in structure, the kind of changes that need to be made in curricula, etc. That the Right has not asked or wished to debate this, and that they have largely been concerned with what they define as ‘level lowering’, will be on the Right. But at least the rest of us have been busy discussing what the high school will look like in the coming years, and we have given some clear leadership to the Council of State in making adjustments and coming back to the Stortinget with suggestions. I am also concerned about the school as a workplace, but we will come back to that on a later occasion. We have asked for a big message about recruiting for the teaching profession, and then we're going to take this up in its full width. I agree with Wage that wages are important when we talk about recruitment. We in SV have in the last two years tried to involve this in the Storting and make a debate on this, because we saw that recruitment to the teaching profession was a problem. Both times, the Right has taken advantage of the opportunity to vote against our proposals to do something. That's why it's a little strange when he comes up with this now, when the Right before when this has been a current issue – it's been up in connection with tariff settlement, and then we've made suggestions – have found that they couldn't vote for it because this wasn't a matter for the Stortinget, it was clearly a matter for someone else. The right definition of the level of knowledge is also strange. In the last 15 years, when some students are faced with the same test, and then they may be doing slightly worse in the last few years, this is a sign that the level of knowledge has fallen. It cannot be used as an example at all. I'm going to use an example from my own reality, from my own situation. In my time at high school, we were two parallel classes. In my class, we tried out a new physics curriculum -- it was in physics, not mathematics -- that was significantly different from what the others had. And it's clear that what was important to us, and what was the arrangement within the new curriculum, differed significantly from what the second class had. If we were then faced with the same problems that the others were faced with, we could of course not solve them, but to say that the level of knowledge in our class was worse than in the other class, you couldn't look at that background. So the way to define the level of knowledge is mildly said behind goals – far behind goals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1231	First to Upbeøen Hansen when it comes to real competence. Already today, the short run is possible on the basis of real competence, and it is practiced in some county municipalities. However, through the real-time competence project, a policy will be put in place to ensure that real-world practice on short-run runs is fairly uniform across the country, so that we can have a system that can be used throughout the country. It's getting on its legs pretty quickly, so that's where we meet the representative's wishes. In the case of ICT, a new ICT plan comes in the course of the fall for both primary and secondary schools, which includes a number of funds based on what has been presented in the budget. But by the way, we've seen a project going on in both primary and secondary schools called Pilot, and it's both about methods and other things going on in ICT education where the continuing school is heavy inside. One of the projects – that's the project in Vest-Agder – has as one scheme to try out a system with a pedagogical computer card, as the representative Oppebøen Hansen calls for. So it's also going on, and it might be an appropriate way to go on, but we'll actually get an answer to that soon. Then to the representative on the payroll. He says it has our self-satisfaction here in the debate, among other things. by the Council of State. When the representative says that, I know that he has great competence here, so I'm worried that he might be right, and I've had to think thoroughly through that particular page. But I am actually in agreement with the representative, Reikvam, that the message and the posts here today both say what we have been closed with, and what we have to do better. And there are two things we have to do better: one is to help the weakest. The second is that in some areas it's a level problem, and we're serious about that. Mathematics – and real science at all – have been a problem for 20 years, since it was optional for a basic school to have mathematics in the teacher’s education or not. Here, it's kind of their fathers' sins that go to those degrees that haunt us, and we've done something about that. But it's a long time before it starts to work too fully. Then we've strengthened the training. Then it's the methods. When it comes to mathematics, it's been a lot of discussion: is it algebra or is it the newer method with more statistics to be used? It is an international debate, and it also goes. strong in the United States. And so it was said after a meeting I had with experts in mathematics, that we need to get more correspondence between continuing education and higher education and university. I'm told that the university didn't have much of a customization. Therefore, there is an extensive work to be done. It's not to underestimate the difficulty, but it's to say that the problem is compounded.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1240	The research I mentioned from the Norwegian Board of Mathematics relates to tasks that are central to the curriculum of mathematics and have done it all the time. This is why there is a study that clearly tells us about the development of the ability of students to master the tasks that the curricula assume they will master when they leave high school. Both the committee's chairman and the representative, Rikvam, were engaged in discussing the salary of teachers and claimed that I was responsible for it. In fact, I did not mention it in one word in my intervention in this debate, but I note with interest that it has made a certain impression both on the chairman of the committee and on the representative Rikvam that the Right has put the search light so much into it. on it. Now I didn't get any idea of what the committee leader really thinks about the topic, despite the fact that she found it too good to introduce it herself in this debate, but I note that the Labour Party's main slogan in the election campaign that we just have behind us – as it seems the party itself has forgotten – was: "Work and education should pay off." I attend with interest what the party itself will draw from the principle that education should pay off, especially with regard to the long-term teachers in higher education. The Council of State said in its last speech that he ‘takes serious’ also the level problem. It is good to hear that he says it explicitly, but I should have liked to have seen some more energetic discussions of it in the message, and I should also have liked to have heard from the Council of State a more concrete description of what he intends to do with it. Because if you have recorded that there is a real problem, not least in the real world, which is in many ways the key to the future of work and business in this country, if there is a real level problem in the core of science and technology, you also have to expect concrete answers from the Council of State on what he intends to do with the level problem. Finally, a small note to the representative of Aarrestad, who made a warm statement in defence of the compulsory training in written lateral cases. She made the mistake that most people do in that debate, putting the similarity between training in written use of both target forms and the fact that the Norwegian language field should, of course, cover both versions of Norwegian language. Of course it is. What's the critical question is whether it's worth maintaining this fiction when it's actually 80-90 pst. by students who, after leaving school, never practise the language in writing. When it comes to putting the search light in Norwegian, you do not have to go to teacher training; you can carefully adjust to the committee setting. It tells us everything about the language situation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1253	In line with the Committee's position, today's debate has shown that there are clear differences in Norwegian education policy, with the Labour Party, SV and the Centre on one side and the Right and the Progress Party on the other. In many ways it has been a serious debate in this way. I agree with Mr Norvoll, who in the early part of the debate expressed joy at the fact that the school policy of the Progress Party does not become a reality, at least not in this case. Right ordered the removal of the employer’s fee for apprentices. This has been discussed several times before. I can't believe that the Right can call such a suggestion a stimulus. Such a proposal will by no means mean anything in Nord-Troms and in Finnmark. Here, other steps need to be taken, and it's been done before. Wages claim that Norwegian elephants are in the bottom layer when it comes to theoretical subjects. This is not correct. Investigations can be used in this way. Among 21 countries in an international study of mathematics and natural sciences at school, Norway entered fourth place. On the knowledge story of physics specialists, Norwegian elephants score the best of 16 countries in total. In addition, the Right claims that Reform 94 causes several elephants to end up in further education, and that several strokes within the profession. This is not correct either. In 1998, more than 30 pst were implemented. more skill and youth tests than in the previous year. 91 pst of the students consisted. 1998 was the first year that the apprentices who had followed Reform 94 were able to take vocational and youth tests. The result is better than before the reform. More people take letters of science and youth. There's more. Of course, the signs that some people have problems with the theory of professionalism should be taken seriously, and we do so, not least through what the Government and the Committee's plurality have presented. The problem is that one has taken too much of the teaching methods from the old Latin ball, i.e. methods for which the representative is a strong spokesman. The solution is not to remove the theory, which was also the subject of the Council of State, but to make education more practical in terms of working life and facilitate learning through work, as a large majority in this room would like.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1268	The representative Tomas Norvoll of the Workers' Party had trouble understanding that I had trouble answering his six-seven questions in my reply to him. In his post he came with two questions he thought had not been answered. One question about what Norvoll thought he heard in the election campaign was immediately answered by Ursula Evje, so I will not spend any more time on it. In terms of flexibility versus grades and exams, I tried to explain that the Progress Party is concerned with quality control of the outcome of society's investment in education, while at the same time wanting to give educational institutions great freedom in how to achieve these results. There is therefore no conflict between grades, exams and flexibility. How this will affect some private schools I do not know in detail, because I do not know plans and arrangements at all private schools. But you can ask, since when has the Workers' Party become so concerned about defending this with private schools? In the budget, there was a fury in that area. Earlier today, during the exchange of lines with the representative Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen, we were on the theme of the Workers' Party's election promises on the loan scheme and school box grant, without feeling that I was getting any clear answers to the questions I asked. The Lending Scheme of the Workers' Party will cost at least 525 million. kr. I guess the Ministry's calculated it to be 700 million. kr. Maintaining the scheme means an annual cost of between 150 and 200 million. NOK, maybe SEK 210 million. kr. In addition, the grant costs are 175 million. kr. These are promises made by the Labour Party politicians to many schoolchildren around Norway, and that is not insignificant amounts. It would therefore be informative to confirm that the Workers' Party will promote this as a concrete proposal and to know where to pick up this money.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1279	The representative Aarrestad swung to the great heights of the side measure defense here instead. I am somewhat concerned when the representative says that the compulsory secondary education should be protected in any case, when we know that there is hardly any subject in Norwegian school where students are less motivated to learn something in particular. At the same time, there should be a reasonable consensus even in this room that the practical effect of compulsory cross-sectional education is relatively small. Although Norway is large and has many different dialects, today’s secondary education does not help to facilitate communication between people with different objectives. I would like to know how the representative Aarrestad will motivate students to continue their efforts in the name of the side goal. Teachers' employment and wages have also been the subject of the debate. The representative Grete Knudsen felt that wages alone would not increase the well-being of the teachers. I agree with Knudsen on this, but it is obvious that the pay problem is an important driver and a significant factor for a teacher's well-being and motivation for the subject. The main problem is not necessarily that the general level of teachers should increase so strongly, but the flexibility of the pay system should be significantly improved. You have to get away from a type of flat pay profile and over to a more individually weighted pay direction. I can hardly imagine a substantial pay gap for the teachers as long as the teacher's organisations are in doubt about today's pay system, with equal pay and central wage negotiations. In Sweden, there have been local wage negotiations for teachers for a while, and it has been shown that this has contributed to increasing teacher pay; it has contributed to increased flexibility in teaching, while the well-being of teachers has improved. So I hope that the Council of State has looked closely at the Swedish system, and that he is in constant contact with the teacher organisations on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1286	No salary has had the word twice and is given a short remark limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1289	The reason why I found it necessary to ask for the floor was that the representative Uppebøen Hansen made a claim that is obviously incorrect. He claimed that I had addressed the issue of the level of Norwegian school in relation to the level of school in other countries. I didn't touch that with a single word. All I've said about this issue is about the Norwegian school's relationship with the Norwegian school over time. It is the real challenge that a whole range of studies, both of the teachers who have the shoes on in the daily educational situation and of the level of knowledge and skills that students have with them, show a quite distinct trend, especially in the fields that all agree that the future of this country depends on.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1295	I just have to figure out that I don't get a proper answer from the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen on the School Policy of the Advancement Party, so I give it up. We'll have to take it later. I think the reason is that he is not able to provide any credible defence for it, but we will probably have other opportunities to take that discussion again. The representative Wohnning now tried to make an elusive manoeuvre in relation to Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen, that it was the Norwegian school against the Norwegian school he was driving and evaluating. What is at least the case is that the representative has used this whole debate to blackmail the situation in the Norwegian school. I think that's unfortunate. He characterizes this debate as we others have had, just to be a competition to be as satisfied as possible. I'll take a strong distance from that. This debate has been good, it has been constructive, and we have pointed out what to do in the future to make the Norwegian school even better. Then it is disappointing that the right-wing party with pay in the head – there are so many people up there – has now joined the magic and simple solutions department and is just standing here and making one simple claim, one simple solution after another, that it is wages, removing the employer’s fee, it is all sorts of petty things that are needed to get the Norwegian school up and up, while describing this as a terrible situation. I think this is quite disappointing, and I really wish that the Right could consider entering into the same reality as the others are in, and consider being with and discussing the Norwegian school and the development of the Norwegian school based on the facts and not on the claim that the situation would be completely disastrous.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1302	In principle, I feel no urge to defend the representative's salary. He's fully capable of doing it even if he wants it. But when it is said here that wages black paint the debate about the Norwegian school and do not want to be involved in discussing the reality of the school, I feel in principle that it is right that others also go up and say something in that context. The fact is that the basic realities of school differ profoundly. When you're not willing to sit down and find a minimum common multiple of consensus on the professional content, of status on quality, it goes without saying that you're standing and yelling from each end of the forest. Those who lose on this are really all the kids and the kids who are in the vacuum between these two calls. Therefore, it would probably be much more fruitful if we sat down and agreed on a minimum common multiple of quality standards in the Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1309	I'm sorry to withdraw the debate, but after hearing the pay last post, I had to make a comment. He says he compares the level in Norwegian school with Norwegian school over time. Then we have to take a little historical look back. 20-30 years ago, how many people went to high school? There was no one, because we didn't have high school, but there were some high school students, who were a selection school, there were some college students, who were a selection school, and there were some college students. And then we got the Weierød model for the gym that was going to rearrange the structure there with much greater choice, much more flexibility, but nothing happened to the vocational education. Then, in the 1980s, we got this problem that young people had nothing to do with. We had to start extra classes. As I mentioned in my last post, there was a terrible way to train. It was simply employment – good enough in itself for the youth not to go free. But now, as a welfare society, we've taken on the right of all young people between the ages of 16 and 19 to receive higher education, and we've got a structure like the one we have today, but which is absolutely mature for revision, as this big message outlines, I think we should be very happy and proud of it. But of course, when we're in the middle of the year, it's a challenge, as I said before. For the whole year coal does not have the same IQ level as they do. 50 pst. of the year coal that went to the sample school had. That's why it goes without saying that we can't get up the level of absolutely all students as high as it was in high school and the vocational school in the old days.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1316	Petter Løvik has had the word twice and gets the word to a short remark limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1319	The last two articles make me have to comment on a lot of things. We are not talking about the situation today compared to an elite school 20-30 years ago. We're talking about what's happened in the last three – four years. We're taking a great deal of distance from the argument about IQ, which the representative from the Central Party now used. There is no point on this score. The point is not whether people are more or less intelligent, but in providing different people with different opportunities to adapt their abilities and thus increase the flexibility that we need. So talk to the representative Norvoll about magic and that right has to go straight into the truth and discuss the realities. That's what we've been trying to do. It is clear that Norwegian schools are very good. Now the third time I'm saying it, because others are trying to say that we're just black-pointing. But then we should also admit and see – and the Council of State refused to answer what he has said before – that there are some things that require our full attention when it comes to the professional level – and then I am talking about the professional level.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1326	State councils may not have refused to respond, but during the rounds he has had, it has had something to do with time. It's a quote from a letter that has a context, but I'm of course saying that it could be one of the reasons. But at the same time I said that level is different things. The real story is a legacy that we're struggling with, that we're trying to change, and that we've done a great deal to change. Among other things, I am studying depth points. At the same time, we have had a selection – the Tevetereid selection – that has given us a number of suggestions that we are about to introduce one by one. Then I also have to say that what has been my main answer when it comes to the level is to get started with the differentiation project that we have, which is quite big. It is clear that there is a difference that is the main answer when it applies to the general profession to be closed there too, both in order to take them with us as wear in the general field, but also to the very best. Then I would say that we think Reform 94 is a very fair and good reform, and the great difference between Right and the parties that have fought for the reform today lies in the fact that Right in its time voted against getting a statutory right. I think that's the basic thing of the reform, because there were enough people who hadn't gotten that opportunity before. But then maybe we who have meant it have highlighted too much of what we think has gone well, and maybe we should have picked up more things that are negative. But I don't completely ignore, especially when it's about the representative, that he might have forgotten some of the positive sides. There may be more nuances in the representative of Løvik, but I would say that when it comes to the representative, I have not been overwhelmed by what he has found in the evaluation when it comes to positive things. It is also true that when you read this evaluation and look at the level, there is a lot of evidence at the level that is good and still good. So the representative says Wage that one can't exactly compare, because one has changed the system. Yeah, one's got it. And a reform is about a changing system. Thus, it is not possible to compare with just what was before, because a reform is about changing a lot of things. That's why we can meet in the middle. Maybe we've forgotten some more negative things that should have been mentioned. So I'm very excited about the pay, even though he's used up his speech time, would have said that he had forgotten some positive moves.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1339	Rolf Rikvam has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1342	I am somewhat disappointed by the debate on the professional level. I must say that I also felt that the Council of State now went into a way that he should not have done. For what is professional level? You talk about something definite. But high school is a conglomerate. We have professional courses of study, and there can be no doubt – cf. also the Kjell Opseth said – that the professional level of the professions has increased in recent years. Then we're left with the general subjects, and that's probably the ones that the right is concerned about when they talk about the professional level, I assume. I guess it's the old high school that's their ideal. But what is general science? There's a lot of line discipline, and there's different possibilities of choosing depression. That's the actual ratio. I'm going to venture that claim -- and I think you're going to have problems with refuting it -- that students who choose the greatest depression in mathematics, physics and the natural sciences, don't represent a level decrease compared to what we had in the old high school. I am quite convinced of that. We probably have to be a little more nuanced if we're going to talk about the professional level, and be a little careful about moving out on a road that we shouldn't, as I felt that the Council of State was now doing. It was an attempt to get him back again.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1349	So the debate is on case No. I'm done. [[Fotation, see page 56]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1365	I guess this is going to be an anti-climate thing compared to what we've been doing in the past. Let me first make it clear that the interpellation is not due to the fact that I have reason to believe that the department has changed the interpretation and the practice of the private school law. As I know the treatment of the various applications, it seems that the department follows a consistent line and treats applications equally. There is nothing to suggest that individual groups have benefited. Regardless of which groups have applied for, whether on a religious or pedagogical basis, the Ministry has led a consistent line. Of course it has to be that way. But it's not given that it's going to be like this. It's enough to remember the discussion about the approval of a Muslim high school in Oslo. Parties who are the most eager defenders of private schools believe that such a school should not be approved. It can either be due to a lack of knowledge of the private school law, or it implies a conscious and obvious desire for discrimination. In Norway, we have a special school law that is special, because of the way in which it imposes costs on the State: if the applications meet the requirements for approval, they should automatically be accompanied by a grant. It is not the Storting that allocates funds each year to various educational activities. A recognised school triggers a commitment. And those who have seen the state budget for the current year know that together we spend barely $1.1 billion on private schools. The obligation to grant could perhaps be accepted if there was an embedded opportunity to exercise political discretion in the examination of applications for authorisation. For example, it should. be able to assess the overall training provision in an area/region when assessing the possible recognition of a private school. If not for other reasons, this should be accepted because it is resource use. A public school may be threatened with closure because of the establishment of private schools in the neighbourhood. In the case of pedagogical content, special use of judgement is also open to approval. I choose to interpret the Department's letter of approval to Rainbow private school in Lørenskog, a so-called ACE school, as an attempt to draw up some limits on what can and should be approved. The Ministry has made a number of requirements to be met before the school is approved as a grant beneficiary on a religious basis. This is important, and it's interesting because there's some use of discretion. The Ministry clarifies in its letter, inter alia: that in the field of Christianity, the students will gain knowledge of the humanistic cultural heritage. It is shown, among others: of L97, where it says that the humanistic values, represented among others. by democratic and human rights principles are part of the value base. It is also stressed that the school must focus on the development of social relations and communities. In addition, the Ministry has felt it necessary to stress that education should be in accordance with the guidelines of the curricula and the Equality Act. It is also stressed that this should be taken into account in the choice of educational material. Here the ministry has at least tried to draw up some limits on what can be accepted and what cannot be accepted. In other words, the school would not have been approved if it did not meet the requirements set by the department here, both for content and for teaching material. The L97 syllabus for primary school consists of three parts. Part 1 is a common general part for primary and secondary schools. Part 2 consists of principles and guidelines for primary schools. Finally, we have curricula for the different subjects. The principles of the primary school syllabus shall be followed by private schools to receive public support. Here's the department and I agree. The curricula of the Rainbow School application have been assessed and some adjustments have been required before they can be accepted. In my opinion, schools operating in accordance with ACE-pedagogical principles should not have been approved at all. A basic principle of primary school curricula is that students are required to have adapted training — taking into account the individual student’s abilities and assumptions. The contents of the subjects within L97 shall stimulate and promote: theidentity of creativity and the understanding of fundamental values and of cultural heritage education based on basic knowledge This shall be achieved through the dissemination of knowledge and facts, but not least through the choice of working methods and practices. Cooperation between pupils, teachers and school management is necessary to develop the school as a learning environment and workplace. Training shall promote democratic working methods and contribute to the development of social skills by students. It is underlined that project work is to be carried out both within and across the disciplines. A basic understanding of learning is that learning is something that happens in interaction between active and committed students and teachers. This, in my view, is fundamentally broken by the learning vision practiced in the field of ACE pedagogy, where individual students are increasingly isolated in booths with partitions to create the necessary calmness and concentration for self-study. This is within the school plans, so this draws a sketch of what the classroom should look like, with the students in the booths entering the wall. The L97 curriculum is based on the scientific method, which requires the practice of scientific understanding and the method of working and instruction to be permeated by this way of thinking. Teaching arrangements to base the Bible’s creation account as an alternative to a scientific understanding of evolution reveal a contempt, in my opinion, for science and knowledge. The Bible’s creation account, which is a beautiful and poetic expression of who has created, does not claim to be an alternative to the knowledge we have acquired over the past 2,000 years. In my opinion, such a view shows contempt for the Creator, and is therefore in its form almost blasphemic. Different assessment methods shall promote development and learning. Assessment and guidance shall enable students to benefit from feedback and reflect on their own work. These are principles laid down in L97. Assessment forms shall motivate efforts and train students to take responsibility for their own learning. An assessment system such as that used in the field of ACE pedagogy, where one uses punishment and reward to six-year-olds, violates this fundamental view of what assessment should be. When a user rehab as a punishment for 6-year-olds, this is not in accordance with L97’s view on learning. A 6-year-old has no chance of seeing the relationship between being a little awkward and worried for an hour, and having to stay in the principal's office after school. My claim is that schools using the American-inspired ACE pedagogy should not have been recognised as eligible under the Private Schools Act, because it has a central role to play in the vision of learning and the view of evaluation. So they should not have been approved.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1412	First of all, I would like to thank the representative of Reikvam for identifying the department with a factual and serious examination of applications in all directions, whatever type of school it was, and what kind of life vision it represented. Of course I appreciate that. However, it is now that my conclusion is likely to be different from that of the representative of Rikhams, and I will justify it. The representative comments on a difficult type of administrative matter. The issues lie in the field of tension between the public university ball and the right parent has to ensure that children are trained in their own faith. How far is it right to stretch the concern for unity and unity, and to what extent can I, as the Council of State, overstep the parents' religious over-interpretation? For me, it is decisive that all children who go to school in Norway are guaranteed adequate competence both socially, culturally and professionally. Whether children attend public or private schools, it shall not be decisive whether they can later participate in further education, in professional and social life. Therefore, ensuring adequate competence for children is a key point in approving schools with a right to state support for private schools. At the same time, one of the conditions for private support is that the school is created for religious reasons – I'm talking about the payoff number after which the representative has taken the interpellation. That religious scabs represent a somewhat different idea base than the public school, and therefore cannot be realized within the established curriculum, is therefore not only something I defend, but also something I am forced to demand before I approve such a school. It's supposed to be alternatives. The Ministry has approved the so-called ACE bullets as religious alternatives to the public school after private school §3a. The balls are thus not accepted as professional educational alternatives according to § 3(b). The spheres have a different principle starting point than the public school, and they also have a special curriculum in Christian knowledge with religious and life-oriented orientation. The ACE balls shall otherwise follow the curricula of public schools, with some adaptations in the subjects of Norwegian, natural and environmental sciences, social sciences, physical training and music. The balls can use ACE teaching material as far as it is appropriate to the approved curricula. This follows from private spherelova § 4. Letters of approval for ACE balls contain a number of conditions, as also the representative Rikham referred to, among others. students are given knowledge of the humanistic cultural heritage and that the training complies with the equality law. Furthermore, the schools should provide all pupils with appropriate training. The emphasis has also been on cooperation between students, including across trades. Adaptive training is required for all class steps. In addition, the Ministry has called for training to take on impulses and incentives from the community to provide students with a basis for comparisons and choices and to become familiar with other environments through participation in their own local environment. The traineeship shall stimulate cooperation and dialogue with several parties in the local environment, for example: kindergarten, church, police, sports teams, voluntary organisations and others in the community working on activities for children and young people. Training must also take into account the existence of different forms of life and the emergence of children in different family structures. The Ministry therefore has the task of providing training to prevent prejudice and discrimination and to promote mutual respect and tolerance between groups of different lifestyles. They need to focus on developing social relationships and communities. There are a number of training requirements for ACE balls. The requirements are to ensure that students have a level of competence equivalent to that given in public schools. At the same time, the approval shows respect for the right to believe something plural is not mentioned. As long as the students are sure of the necessary general knowledge, the private sector shall have room for those who think differently than we do. I mean after this that the approved ACE bullets are both sufficiently similar and sufficiently different from the public school to get a boost from private bullets. Therefore, I do not find any reason to review the approval. Otherwise, I would like to remind you that the State Education Office supervises the private bullets, among these also ACE bullets. Training offices shall ensure that the law and other conditions are complied with by the schools. I believe that good supervision will ensure that the approved schools provide students with good competence for later participation in society, further education and occupation. I would like to start a work to assess the supervision of the private schools, which should be aimed at improving supervision even better than it is today. There shall be a security for the schools that they shall receive guidance, advice and assistance; it shall be a security for the parents and the elephants; and there shall be a knowledge for us in society that what has been seen as an envoy here is being carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1440	I thank you for your answer. I might have expected that the Council of State would go a little bit closer to the pedagogics underlying these schools, the so-called ACE pedagogics, and spent some more time discussing it in relation to the pedagogical main vision that is laid down in our curricula and the view of learning that is laid down in L97. I'm sitting – or standing, I guess it's right to say – with the school plan for Rainbow School in Lørenskog. I get quite shocked when I see the way they think, the way they're going to organize the teaching, how this is going to be done in a classroom with each of their booths: the students have their own office space, there's a right table with fasit inside this office, it's going to be a teacher's job, it's going to be a class library and a table for knowledge tests. There are many ways in which this space is to be taught, as presented in this school plan. Clearly, for this reason, there is a view of what learning is like it must be quite clear – I believe that we can agree on it for the vast majority of people – does not match the view of learning that we have gradually developed and that is reflected in our plans for public school. But in this we can't see ourselves independent of the methodological guidance for this pedagogy. I tried to get the methodological guidance for ACE education, but it wasn't that easy. I expect the Council of State will have them. I was told that they existed, but they were found in English, and I had to get them from South Africa, if I wanted them – the methodological instructions. I expect the Council of State and the Department to have them, so I might have gone there and got them from the Council of State and not written to South Africa – I didn't. But I assume that the Council of State has also taken the methodological guidance and gone through it, because methodological guidance is the way, the way, we're going to get to the goal. That's the way we're going to go to the goal we have for learning, for teaching, and that's an important part of the pedagogical approach. So I will now ask the Council of State finally to get a guarantee that he has the methodological guidance from South Africa in English in his office, and that these are included in the assessments one made of the curricula and applications, in this case from Rainbow School in Lørenskog. It would be important for me to confirm, so I can be sure that all of this has been evaluated in a proper and serious way. As I said, I didn't get the opportunity because I didn't get them from school, it was South Africa that was the place.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1453	The representative, Reikvam, had expected me to go into ACE education more specifically. What I tried to go into is which premises we approve private schools on, and what is generally done in relation to these schools. I would like to repeat once for the clarification that these schools are approved as life-vision schools and not as educational alternatives, and that they are approved of a professional plan that has been carefully examined. Then, as far as it's appropriate, they can use ACE's principle to achieve the measure in the plan they're approving from. And then it would be completely across the board if we went in and from a to analyze the pedagogical system on which they are not approved. Now, in contrast to the representative, I may have made the investment that I have been visiting – as late as yesterday – at such a school, not as the representative of Reikvam mentions, but another school that runs on the first four years of this principle. And I have to say that so far a visit range, it was an interesting experience. Because it's not that it's an individual location, it's not a matter of taking care of both working in groups and working on projects. In approx. The third of the time has individual work, and then it uses this system to get concentration. Furthermore, there is concrete group work and concrete project work in the other two thirds. I felt that children in this school were most like children, and I experienced – in an environment where parents were present, there were teachers present and there were children present – a very interesting conversation around this. I don't want to say here that this is a pedagogical system that I would recommend, that's kind of not what my task is either. But what I want to report back is that I experienced that school in reality different from what it is described, where one hears that people are going to sit continuously in booths, isolated from the other students and around the world. So I want to give the address of this school, they're probably conjuring up parents once more, so Rikham can also not go to South Africa or write to South Africa, but go to a school here that runs conscientiously and well, as I experienced it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1460	First, a little line for this visit from the Council of State. I guess we know a little bit about what it's like to get a visit from the rest of the world, which is usually not the bad side, but the better side. We now experience a wave, especially in this area of ACE pedagogy, of an individualized method of teaching that is alien to what has been common in Norwegian society and the Norwegian school. I also feel that there has been a shift in Norwegian education policy when the Council of State Lilletun to those degrees almost inspires the establishment of its own schools. Last week I saw that the Department wants 18 of their primary schools now to be converted into private secondary schools. Even the former leader of the Church Council expressed great scepticism, but not Lilletun. As for the way grants are given, I point out that the representative Thorbjørn Jagland and I have submitted a proposal on this. However, in terms of the principles themselves, directly for ACE education, it must be a responsibility of the Council of State to ensure that curricula meet important principles both for equality, how we learn and possible methods of punishment. I think it's quite obvious that it must be part of the state council going into; now he's actually standing here on the pulpit and saying it's not a matter for him. At the same time, he says that the child should also be guaranteed pedagogical, cultural and social in order to function in society later, and there must be certain follow-up and supervision procedures. The Council of State should stand here on the floor of the Stortinge and say: I can guarantee that the principles on which this pedagogy is based are such that I can vouch for it. We know that in some of the places where you now have ACE education, you have your own church, your own school, your own community environment, and then you can ask questions about how many other influences of the social and cultural that the government council here stressed were a starting point, are actually being fulfilled. So the question is finally how to follow general principles.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1469	I think it is timely with the debate that the representative, Mr Reikvam, has started here today, but he has not even examined where he can get hold of the methodological plans. Today, the main centre of ACE is located in Lewisville, Texas, and not in South Africa, and on a request to Texas, he would get it all – probably also in several different languages. That he is concerned, I can understand that, because this kind of pedagogy has expanded, not only in the Western world, but also in Eastern Europe and Russia, where by 1992 there were as much as 68 schools, and that development continues at a raging pace. In terms of this punishment, which he talked about, he talked about it as if punishment was something that only happened in this type of school, and that's not it. I fully understand that punishment also takes place in the normal school, where individual students can be isolated from the group and the other class in the school situation, and perhaps have a much greater mental strain on the type of punishment you have at rehab. In terms of organisation, it is clearly different, yes, but hardly harmful to the student as such. I've broken up with getting some plans to look at this, and from my understanding, these schools are based on four basic principles: the parents, the student, the individual, the basic, with training, and the faith aspect. The parents are responsible for the children; the school is the service. The individual of each child is a unique individual and thus different and must be treated as such. It is based on the fact that in the last 20 to 30 years the school, the normal school, has assumed responsibility for many areas that naturally belong to other spheres, which often appear to be at the expense of the basic knowledge and skills of the children. All of this is the basis for this type of school — perhaps not so very different from what many have said in this room before. The trade unions are pretty much the same. In terms of faith, this can be discussed, but it is in any case the parents’ right and obligation to take responsibility for their own children’s training that needs to be met. And we must not forget that in our adoption we adopted social and economic human rights as supreme Norwegian law.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1490	The representative Rikvam starts his post positively, and says that he believes the government treats everyone equally. But later he says that in his opinion ACE schools should not be approved – these are schools approved on a religious basis. But although this is not a general debate on private schools, the principleal and ideological view of private schools is at the bottom of this debate as well. The parents' right to choose the form of teaching for their own children is important for the Christian People's Party. That is tolerance and solidarity in practice. The Private School Act has clear criteria for the approval and grant of private schools. Government responses today show that ACE-based schools must also comply with a number of requirements imposed by the Ministry in order to be approved. We can like it or not – there would be stronger feelings and opinions in relation to schools that are religiously accepted than to schools with alternative pedagogics. The recognition rules in the Private School Act are therefore very important, so that this is not about vision or about antipathy and sympathy. The scheme shall differ substantially from the public school. We're going to take care of those children and parents who have a strong and committed relationship with their faith and religion, and who don't just want to, but that it really means something so that it can express school life and education in a completely different way than in public school. It is important to have respect for such an attitude. And if we don't fully understand or have the same view as those who want this, they should be able to have an alternative school. ACE schools are approved according to the same rules as other private schools. If there is to be consistency and equality, these schools must be able to be recognised in the same way as other schools with alternative life perspectives when the requirements are met. It is important that the State Education Office supervises all the private schools, including these. That would mean that we did not have to have such a debate as we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1499	The ideological issue — which is, moreover, very wide in scope — under this debate is the issue of parental authority and the authority of society. I think the weakness of the interpellant's reasoning for the interpellant he's traveled is that he doesn't at all go into this fundamental ideological question. More specifically, there was nothing in the interpellant's articles that showed that he or SV is at all interested in the position of his or her parents in this picture. The parental right is in the mind universe that the interpellant rolled up, practically non-existent. In this case, it is clear that any balancing problem falls away, because at any time it is a question of what the majority of democratic decisions think parents should do. At my discretion, it is a characteristic of a qualitative democracy that it not only lays down the principle of majority voting, but that the majority is prepared to respect the rights of minorities or minorities. In this context, I believe, for my part, that the private school law we have represents, in principle, a proper balancing of the interests of minority rights on the one hand – whether they want a different pedagogy, or they want a different way of life based on the education of children – and the majority’s right to determine what is to be the goal and plan of public school. I agree with the Labour Party and the SV that it is desirable that we in Norway have a public school that is good enough, and that is liberal enough, that most people will find it natural, and prefer, to send their children there. But I fundamentally disagree with the next step, which I have the feeling of constantly lurking, that if there is someone who doesn't want to, they should, either by tightening up legislation and making it a coercion, or by using economic coercive means – and that will, of course, have the same result, namely by saying that those who belong to the minority should be so good at financing the public school like any other taxpayer, but in addition they have to pay 100 pst. if they want an alternative arrangement for their children. I wish that the interpellant in his final post would explain what view of the parental right underpinning, because the simple ideological question is: are the parents responsible for the child's growth and who are adding it to the mission of public school or to a private school? Or is it the society that imposes an obligation on parents to send their children here or there?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1508	Let me begin by saying in general that the private school debate has received a lot of attention in the last year. But the debate has not always been equally nuanced, and the issue that the interpellant is raising today is both important and difficult. I agree with the Council of State that the problem is in the field of tension between the consideration of the public unit school and the consideration of the right parents have to give their children training in their own faith. When a school is approved under the private school law, it will have a different starting point to the idea of public school because its objectives, in the opinion of parents, cannot be achieved within the framework of the single school. This applies whether it is pedagogical-methodological principles or life views on which these schools are based. But we know that the department has to approve the curricula, and they can set conditions for teaching and teaching. In this way, we ensure that private school education is in line with fundamental democratic values, such as: active participation in society, equality and the fight against prejudice and discrimination in education. Today, we have a system in which the State Education Office, on behalf of the Department, controls that the private schools comply with the law under conditions set for its operation. It is important, in the opinion of the Centre Party, that the Department ensures that this control or supervisory function functions properly and that it is carried out on a continuous basis. After hearing Rolf Rikvam’s contributions here today, it is suggested that this check should not be weakened if the credibility of the practice of the private school law is to be maintained. The Council of State underlined the extent to which it stressed in its observations. So a little bit more general again: I mentioned initially that the debate on private schools has sometimes been a little nuanced. By doing so, I believe that representatives of the Workers' Party and SV have made it appear that setting up private schools throughout is a threat to the public unit school. Of course it's not like that. But the Center Party does not see strong growth in the number of private schools as a goal in itself. Having said that, I would nevertheless remind you that the emphasis on aesthetics and modern pedagogics in our public unit school has largely taken inspiration from the Steinerskolan and Montessori schools. Today, because of the high rate of public support for these schools, it is possible for children to go to these schools, in other words, all social teams. If the public support rate is reduced as dramatically as SV and the Labour Party proposed in its alternative budgets last year, the private school will largely become a school for parents with good advice. Such a development sees the centre party as very little desirable. Finally, there have been examples of the fact that the establishment of private schools, at least a few places, has led to the closure of public schools on site. This is very unfortunate. Therefore, the Central Party believes that if private schools are set up on the ground, we need to assess whether decommissioned public schools can be secured an economic foundation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1524	I have a little bit of problems understanding that SV, which is otherwise a party fighting for tolerance, is showing so much commitment to excluding life-synthesis minorities, parents and children, the rights they have through Norwegian law and international agreements. Tolerance is about more than fine words about cultural diversity, and it is put to the test when we meet statements or actions that are contrary to our own convictions. Just then the tolerance will be tested. In a liberal democracy, we cannot have different rules for Catholics or congregations in the movement of faith or in the relationship of Christians and Muslims. In reality, Rikvam today places greater emphasis on the pedagogical structure of ACE schools, but, as is known, these schools are recognised as life-synthesis schools, and must be treated in accordance with that principle. The left trusts that the ministry has dealt with the application from both Rainbow Christian Community and Living Words in a regulatory way, and we trust that the State Education Office does its job of following up these schools. In the same way as all schools in the country, these schools need to train their children to become prejudiced, knowledge-rich and social citizens. We trust that they do.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1533	The representative Rivamm has taken up a very exciting and very good interpellation. The text of the interpelation was exciting and good, and the post was creative and good and very constructive, and I'll actually believe in the respect of the bourgeois side, if you can call it that. But Rolf Rikvam must be exceptionally disappointed after this debate. Because here we can see that the bourgeois side is united and will not discuss the things in the interpellation. Instead of discussing the content and recognition of this kind of pedagogy and school, they talk only about parental rights and the right to set up private schools. We've had that debate a hundred times before, and there we disagree. We believe that it should be reasonable, and that it should not be automatic in that because a school is approved, it should have money. The bourgeois believe the opposite. But it wasn't the interpellant that Reikvam brought up here today. He wanted to discuss the content of a new school in Norway, and to get the views of the Council of State to know about it. To make this a little simple: when the representative describes and makes allegations about what kind of criminal practices are used in these schools – criminal practices that I think we all agree that there is nothing special, and that should not be in Norwegian school – the Council of State cannot just answer that this is not his responsibility, this is not his case. Either he has to answer that he has checked this and it is not like that, so he can reassure the representative that it is not like that, and that is why it is okay. Or he must answer that he has checked this and that is how it is, but that he thinks it is okay and has nevertheless approved it. Or he can answer that he does not know, but since it is claimed, he will check it and report it back. The three exits have been there. He can't just answer that this he doesn't care about, this isn't his case. I'm afraid that this debate, like debates we've had in the past, shows that it's impossible to have a real discussion, a real debate around this with private schools and the development and trend there in Norway. We see that the state council with its companions falls on the head of the trenches and is not interested in having a creative dialogue, but just hiding behind the concept of parental rights.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1544	I can confirm that I am disappointed in this debate. I had expected those who had the word to go a little bit further into the claims that I made both in the interpellation and in my post. In fact, I have done nothing but what the Council of State has done. I've gone in and looked at the curriculum, I've looked at what this school is going to be. As I said, I haven't looked at the methodological guidance. It has not been answered by the Council of State whether he has looked at it. It is possible that I could have got them in Texas, but when I called this school, I was told that it was in South Africa they were to find. So that was the background. I expect the Council of State to be able to confirm here and now whether he has seen them and gone through them. It's important to me, so I know that the methodological instructions that I haven't seen, he's seen, and they're also part of the assessments. But my point is that I have done nothing but what the Council of State has done. He has gone into the plans and said that we approve them under those and those assumptions. So I say, "Dear Councilman, you should have gone a little further and said that it was also they and the prerequisites for approving them." For me, it's what separates the Council of State from me in assessing this. So to present it as if I'm doing something other than what he's doing, it's positive wrong. We do exactly the same, but I believe that he should have gone further and made stricter demands than he has. So that's not true, at least that's not right, when the council says it's not his job to go in and evaluate the professional and the pedagogical. Because he never did, but he concluded that we approve it under those and those and those assumptions. So to this with private schools in general. I agree with those who say that they do not perceive the private schools – 1.7 pst. by children and young people attending private schools — as a threat to public schools today. That's not my point. But it's our job to make sure that the private schools that we approve and that we give 85 pst. State grants follow some principles that apply to education and training in this society. That's what I've been busy about. That's what I've said that the Storting should discuss in a slightly more serious way than making a few simple claims that this is an attack on parental rights, etc. We fully accept that the parental right is there. We're bound by international conventions, and we take that seriously. However, it has not been said that anyone applying either on a religious or pedagogical basis should automatically receive State aid. That's what the Council of State believes. He also believes that they will not automatically receive state aid, because he makes some demands on them. I had also hoped that the rest of the assembly would be interested in discussing where the requirements and where the limits were going. They have not been interested in that, and I take note of that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1553	I can't see that at any time I have come with attacks or allegations in relation to the representative Rikvam. He hasn't got such an additional answer that he wanted when it was a trick to discuss ACE pedagogics. I also gave a reason why he didn't get it: the ball is approved as a life-vision ball after the paragraph we're following. But it's one thing the representative of Reikvam overlooks, and that's that in Section 4 of the private sphere, it says that a private school is approved in relation to a curriculum, but in addition to that, private school has freedom of teaching – so we're not required to use the or the methodological guides, etc. He has freedom of teaching. That's why the Steinersball can run as he does, both without exams and without the kind of tests that there's a lot of them in public schools. So if I were to follow the logic of the representative, I would have gone across Section 4 of Private Skulelova. So, a private school should be tried against the curriculum, and there's the requirements set out as we said. Then the representative Grete Knudsen says I have to stand here and guarantee what's going on in these schools. No, what I guarantee is that we have a serious treatment and provide the necessary arrangements for the approval, and we need to monitor it. But neither in public school nor in private school, I can guarantee that everything that happens there is always 100 pst. It goes without saying that there will always be errors, but there must be a system that catches up. Finally, I would also like to say that it is necessary to take into account the dimension of the representative's remuneration in relation to the parent's right. Because it is not possible to discuss these issues without a consensus on where the balance point is to be located, if parents are to be right, as Privateculelov says, to establish schools and have a state bill that makes it an equal offer for all, without regard to income. I'm probably missing that, too. But otherwise I will end as I started: I thought that the representative Rikvam had a serious and good interpellation, although I lack some elements, as he also lacks it in my answer. And that's how far we came today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1566	So the debate is on case No. 2 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1580	A total of 24 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 – 5, by Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party and Socialist Left Party proposal No. 6, by Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party proposals No. 7 – 17, by Ulf Erik Knudsen, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Right-wing Proposals No. 18 – 21 and 23, by Ulf Erik Knudsen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, No. 24 and 25, from Rolf Reikvam on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The President noted that a proposal by the Party of Progress in the event of a mistake had been included twice, as No. 18 and 22. Proposal No. No 22 has therefore been submitted. The explanation of vote will then be given.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1603	I would urge the Group of the Right to vote in favour of all the proposals we are co-sponsoring, and in addition to proposal No. 25, from the Socialist Left Party, and for the whole setting with the exception of point IV, where we go against.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1608	I would urge the Labour Party Group to vote in favour of the proposals that we have with the Socialist Left Party, and proposal No. 6, from the Workers' Party. Otherwise, we shall vote in favour of proposal No. 25, from the Socialist Left Party, and for the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1613	I would like to urge the members of the Christian People's Party and also the members of the Central Party – who are nodded here – to vote in favour of the vote, with the exception of VII. Furthermore, we will support proposal No. 25, from the Socialist Left Party. The other minority proposals will be voted against.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1618	Several have not asked for the floor for an explanation of vote. The vote is first on the minority proposals and then on the setting. We start with the smallest fraction's suggestion. Proposal No. 24, from the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a case to the Stortinget where a proposal proposes a gradual winding-up of the system of individual characters. As part of the liquidation, different forms of assessment of the learning work should be tested.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1634	Proposal No. Twenty-five, from the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to facilitate the establishment of a number of special courses to take care of small subjects, subjects with recruitment problems and educational pathways for young people who need a different combination of practice and theory in order to obtain a letter/other competence.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1646	Proposals Nos. 18-21 and 23, from the Party of Advancement, shall be taken up for voting. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider the possibility of reducing the extent of professional theory.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the possibility that a greater proportion of vocational training can be left to business.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that public schools increase the use of criminal justice, retrial, and expulsion for shorter or longer periods of time in cases of unrest, strife, vandalism, violence, etc.’.» Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for concrete action to be taken by the Government in order to implement mandatory introduction into the public, respect for life, health and property of others, behaviour and respect for teachers and fellow students.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government requests the separation of the function Education and Vocational Guidance from other guidance at primary and secondary level.’ [[social counselling services]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1682	Proposals Nos. 7 and 8 and 10-17, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, to voting. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a modified funding model for the operation of secondary schools, so that a greater part of the money follows the student according to the price principle. Public and private education services are treated in the same way as for operating grants.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that public secondary schools become self-governed units with their own operating boards.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to consider a possible amendment to the Input Regulations weighing the individual subjects in relation to the relevance of the line raised.’;» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make written secondary school training optional.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the examination is carried out in all written and oral subjects in at least one oral course for all elephants.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to open up the possibility of taking the examination in secondary school in all subjects where the grade is standing on the final diploma.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that greater emphasis is placed on professional theory and less emphasis on general professional theory in vocational training.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that the character system be reworked in such a way that the professional characteristics are based on the most objective assessment of professional competence/skills, while introducing a separate character for diligence.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the companies themselves are entitled to choose apprentices and that a probationary system is put in place for both parties.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to remove the 21st anniversary limit in order to draw up a full-time apprenticeship in a company.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1744	Proposal No. 9, from the Advancement Party and the Right, taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals that will ensure the principle of free school choice for secondary school students.’ The left has announced that they will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1760	Proposal No. 6, from the Workers' Party, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks for a comprehensive revision of the curriculum in connection with a new structure on GK and VK1.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1774	With regard to the proposals of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, the President first takes up proposal No. 2, which in the course of the debate has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘The Government is invited to submit legislative proposals on the individual right to further training for adults who have not previously been offered, or have been given the opportunity to complete, further training/vocational training.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Proposals Nos. 1, 3 and 4, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, to voting. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to anchor its curriculum that students taking further training with study competence as a goal will gain experience in the workplace during the training period.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to take the initiative to change the textbook production more away from the curriculum-driven book and to the thematic books.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide an assessment of the future organisation of the private upper secondary education and the corresponding public services, as well as an assessment of the economic relationship between the upper secondary education and the secondary education system for the corresponding provision of public services, particularly through the national rail system.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1807	Proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘If necessary, the Government asks the Government to submit proposals to the National Line Scheme for the Experimental Gym.’ The left has announced that they will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1852	The right has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1886	The Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1909	Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-06.ana.ud1400e1918	There is no record.
