ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e15	From the representative Dag Danielsen, notice is given that the application for a permit granted for the period from 30 November to 2 December is amended to be valid only for the days 30 November and 1 December. – This message is taken into account. The President will propose that the morning sitting should continue, if necessary, beyond the time of regulation. 15.00 until the current map has been processed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Treatment was continued for the following reasons:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e52	The central government has re-assessed the majority of the Storting for a budget adapted to the economic situation. However, the year’s budgetary procedure appears to be significantly different from that carried out a year ago. Both the economic and the political situation was then marked by uncertainty and high temperature. Uro internationally also entered the Norwegian economy. We experienced a sharp fall in the oil price, a fall in the price of the crown and an increase in interest rates. Domestic wage and cost growth was alarmingly high. This year’s budgetary procedure takes place in a situation of strong and stable economy, where we were given a clean and rapid budgetary clearance. We have experienced a renewed rise in the international economy and a significant increase in the oil price. Through a tight budget and enhanced income policy cooperation, the Government has helped to strengthen confidence in the Norwegian economy. On this basis, we note that: Norway’s Bank has found it right to reduce its interest rate five times this year, with a total of 2.5 pst.The exchange rate has increased and is at a level similar to that before the euro last summer.The wage growth has been significantly reduced, and it is based on an understanding of how to bring it down in line with that of the countries with which we compete.The foreign economy went on deficit last year, but is now back in a situation of strong profits.Last but not least, we still have a high level of employment. Fortunately, those who predicted a rapid and strong increase in unemployment last year were wrong. However, we should not trivialise the migration problems of individual industries, with the result that there are some lay-offs and down-staffing. The government should not take the full credit for this positive development, just as it was unreasonable to blame the government unilaterally for the problems last year. However, with a tight government budget and enhanced income policy cooperation, the Government has helped to lay the foundation for positive development. We can sum up the last year that: We avoided the ‘crashlanding’ in the Norwegian economy many thought was almost inevitableThe government is governing economic policy, even when it comes to The political situation is also somewhat different from last year. After the Workers’ Party’s absence from budgetary influence over the previous two years by making cash support an obstacle to budgetary cooperation, the Party changed its line at this point this year. It opened up budgetary cooperation between the Centre and the Workers' Party, and it has given peace and greater predictability of future family policies. We got a tidy and quick budgetary clearance and a clear political situation. The Labour Party deserves tribute for that. The government, through its budgetary procedure, has also proved its dependence on the economy. The centre parties will not bind up to one side of the policy ahead, but will continue to act as a block independent centre of gravity, marking the centre as a separate centre of gravity in Norwegian policy. The budget approach adopted tonight will provide the basis for stable economic development. However, the continuing lack of labour in many industries, and the danger of a peculiar cost development, makes it inappropriate to ‘remove the ropes’. So the government made a neutral fiscal arrangement for next year, and we've won it. In addition, we are all dependent on and served with the moderation of income policy agreed by the parties through the Arntsen Committee. I expect organisations to follow up on what they have agreed on in terms of future income developments. So one on this basis also has to find ways to prioritize groups that need an extra boost. In the budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party, the Government has had an impact on its main priorities. The budget for the year 2000 will have a good centre profile. It will include, among others: secured majority for: a good family policy with cash support and multiple childcare facilities increased commitment to research and education-enhanced environmental efforts and a more forward-looking energy policy stepping up assistance to the poorest countries; At the same time, the Government has followed up the obligatory plans of the Stortinget on a commitment within the care of the elderly and the health services. Moreover, these areas will require significant increases in resources in the years to come. This, of course, also limits the possibility of increased funds to a number of other purposes, together with the growth of expenditure in the population’s security. Both in the Storting and among a number of press groups, criticism and disappointment have naturally been voiced over the lack of investment in some areas. But within the framework of a neutral fiscal approach, I believe that we have found a good priority, which ensures the further development of our welfare society. In the past, the Labour Party has undergone changes in taxation that would represent a threat to businesses and jobs, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises. The government parties therefore opposed such advances in terms of share rebates, share model and change in the system of the shipping tax in budgetary negotiations. It is important that we now, through the budgetary agreement, have achieved a broad breakdown of the corporate tax regimes. This gives greater predictability and stability. Although the Progress Party and the Right in their budgets are proposing increased appropriations for some good purposes, it is also proposing unreasonable cuts in important budgetary areas. By giving priority to increased private consumption through high tax reliefs, the public sector is likely to deteriorate. This weakens some of the foundations for the development of the welfare society. Through their alternative budgetary arrangements this time, the right-wing parties have gone a long way away from the central government, which would have made a budgetary settlement difficult that way. Although the Norwegian economy is now strong, it is important that we keep a rough course in order not to destroy what we have achieved. That's the government line, and that's what we're assuming. The budget is today adopting the first budget for the next millennium. It will help to further develop the welfare community in our own country, even though we still have more unresolved tasks. But as one of the richest countries in the world, we must never become ourselves enough. Norway needs to extend a solidarity hand to the poor and persecuted world so that more people can experience progress and hope at the beginning of the new millennium.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e131	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e134	The finance minister was asked yesterday whether he agrees with his party leader, Odd Roger Enoksen, that there is a fair distribution with the Workers' Party. Gudmund Restad replied that ‘there is no reason to disagree with the fact that the Workers’ Party is the best distribution.’ It is no wonder that the Minister of Finance said this, because it was only when the central parties began to cooperate with the Workers' Party that more was given to the municipalities, which are responsible for the care of the elderly, kindergartens and schools. There will be more kindergartens, and the school leave scheme will be increased by 100 million. kr, a first step towards free school books has been taken, and low pay this time receives tax relief, not the richest, as was the case when working with the Right Party and the Advance Party. If we go back to the election campaign in 1997, we'll see that fair distribution and bet on the common good was the very reason for the center option. Therefore, it becomes completely incomprehensible when the head of the Christian People's Party, Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, at the National Government Meeting of the Christian People's Party just after the budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party had been concluded – and otherwise the celebration with soft cakes and serpentines – says that the Christian People's Party would prefer to cooperate with the Right. Can the Prime Minister explain this? Is it so that the Christian People's Party would prefer to cooperate with the right side, despite the fact that it is with the Workers' Party that a policy underpins the values of the Christian People's Party? So how much are the values worth? Or ask another way: is block independence also independent of its values?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e146	No, it is precisely allegiance to the values of the Christian People's Party that has underpinned the party's choice of way through Norwegian political history, and I should have liked to have seen that in many phases the Workers' Party had had a greater understanding of the values of the Christian People's Party. This could have improved the cooperation climate in previous phases. It is true that in terms of economic distribution policy, the centre parties and the Workers' Party have much in common. This is reflected in today's budget position, and I do not ignore the fact that it can be reflected in the work on the equalization message that is now in Stortinget. We look forward to working together on it, as it is also announced in the financial situation. But of course, the image of the Workers' Party is not as pink as the leader of the party now tried to make it. It should be lacking, because the negative aspects of the party's policy are not the responsibility of Jagland. I'll mention a couple of them. Firstly, the Workers' Party has shown a frightening deficiency in seeing the need for predictability in the framework conditions for our business. The party has repeatedly made proposals which would be harmful, not least for small and medium-sized and family-owned enterprises. Those proposals we have pushed back, and that was part of the basis for us to enter into a budgetary settlement. Secondly, in my view, the party has also shown a frightening lack of freedom of choice for the families of young children in the family policy, which requires both multiple kindergartens and cash support. But now we've also got it in place, and then there's been a budgetary settlement. As for the line ahead, I replied to it in my post: The government will continue its line of cooperation with different parties from case to case where we get the most impact. It's been the government's line from the very beginning, the block independence, and it's exactly in allegiance to our values that we see that we can get the best through with different parties according to which subject matter it's about.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e161	The Prime Minister was far within the Norwegian health system in his speech, but there must be a different reality from that experienced by Health-Norway and patients. I refer the Prime Minister to the World Gang today, which refers to our health care system, where, according to the four Regional Hospital Directors, there are 570 million missing. SEK for operations next year, and the deficit for 1999 is 355 million. kr, which, according to the plans, will also be provided next year. This can only be done by reducing patient treatment, closing departments, closing hospital posts. Here the government doesn't warn anything. However, with regard to the question of asylum seekers, where the Government has not done anything to limit the amount of the budget it has adopted and where the government parties have participated in the adoption here, there will automatically be proposals from the Government on supplementary appropriations because the need has increased. My question to the Prime Minister is: Why this discrimination? Why do you grant asylum seekers, who are largely not real refugees, but, in the case of Norwegian health care, you are told to keep the budgets even if it goes against the sick? Will the Prime Minister agree to provide the necessary appropriations for all hospitals, so that they can make full use of the capacity? And then the taxing of driving allowances is now announced to the many thousands who in their spare time are helping sports Norway, and it particularly affects football. Football President Per Ravn Omdal says in the evening post today: ‘... after I have been referred to, a tax on the driving allowance will affect Norwegian football very hard.’ I really wonder if politicians at all know the consequences of such a practice. Would the Prime Minister please immediately say here that football-Norway can take it easy, these rules will not be implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e177	Of course, I'm particularly disturbed when Mr. The garden mentioned football, and that was probably his intention as well. It's probably not quite as dark for Norwegian football as it is, sir. Hagen now gave the impression. It is a general assessment of the question of driving compensation for those who have side effects, so this is probably something we will get closer to. It is not a negative treatment of Norwegian sport, and much less of Norwegian football. In the case of the Prime Minister, it would have opposed it. Then to the hospitals and the health services. Yes, we have problems in the Norwegian health care system, and they take the government seriously. But the picture is not as black as the Progress Party often gives the impression. Today, more patients are being treated in Norwegian hospitals than ever before, and appropriations are increasing more strongly than ever before. Only in the state budget for 2000, the total amount of health and elderly care is increasing by DKK 3.5 billion. There is hardly any area that gets such an increase, but it should be lacking in any way! In the case of regional hospitals, there has also been a strong increase in grants beyond the 1990s. The State has increased its funding share, and the counties have followed up on increasing its activity. Since 1997, payments for input-driven financing, which is a relatively new grant scheme, have increased by DKK 1.8 billion. Nevertheless, significant deficits are reported at regional hospitals. This has been said by the Government that it will enter into a dialogue with the hospitals and their owners about, and come back to the question in the revised national budget. There we also have to look at whether something can be done through the organisation and efficiency of hospitals, because it is paradoxical that the increase in allocations to regional hospitals in recent years has been far greater than the increased treatment capacity of hospitals from these increased appropriations. It shows, among other things: a report from SINTEF, which was presented in the evening post yesterday, suggests that one must also enter the organisational forms of these hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e186	Breadcake party is something Christian People's Party understands. In the context of the budgetary union, a soft cake party was held, where a cake was made that symbolized the various areas of activity in the budget. The Prime Minister – as far as I was aware – chose the piece of the cake where it said ‘small businesses’ because, as he said to TV 2: We have managed to protect business from changes in corporate taxation. The question is, does it? Indeed, there are aggravations and deteriorations in the sharing model, and in the case of depreciation rules for commercial buildings, both of which are directly related to corporate taxation. In addition, businesses are indirectly affected by increased electricity charges and increased transport costs, not to mention the opportunities that have missed. As shown in the setting, we have calculated this. If we look at a company with 20 employees in the Eastern region, which is actively run by father and two children, there is a tax tightening of approximately 400,000 kroner. Had this been a district municipality in the prime minister's own constituency, the shards would have been even greater. So my question is, is it really true that small businesses have been protected? The Prime Minister and Carl I. Hagen have one thing in common: they both have a desire to take over the role of the Right. It turns out that maybe it got a little bit more complicated than they predicted. The Prime Minister said in connection with the national meeting in spring that his ambition was that the Christian People's Party would be the greatest challenger of social democracy. My question is then: how has this challenge role been addressed in this budget? And how does this consensus fit into this strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e197	I guess the right-hand side also has the ambition to remain the main alternative to the Workers' Party. I wonder how they would get it to vote if this had happened both to the Right and to the Labour Party last year, namely in a given situation to enter into budgetary cooperation. That's what Jan Petersen is asking about now regarding the center's relationship with the Workers' Party. There can be no difference in this way in the right relationship with the Workers' Party than the centre's relationship with the Workers' Party. Of course, Norwegian policy priorities that do not have a majority must be able to cooperate, even if they appear as alternatives to each other in government issues. If not, the Stortinget wouldn't work if we didn't get a budget. Because here we have a different center of gravity: we have one on the right, we have one on the center and we have one on the left, and if none of these connect and create budget solutions, budget cooperation breaks down. We must be able to cooperate, even though we consider ourselves to be a separate centre of gravity and a main challenger of the Workers' Party in government. Then the corporate tax. Have we protected the small businesses? Yeah, I mean, we did. We have opposed the proposal of the Workers' Party in the past on the reduction of stock rebates for unlisted companies, on the change in the sharing models for production companies, and we have also opposed the proposal for a change in the system in relation to the shipping tax. What has happened to the split model does not apply to production enterprises. This is about the liberal professions, that is, artists and the like, which we had a lot of media postings on earlier this fall. I think that tightening is not the least unreasonable. This was just an attempt to avoid a general tax on actual employee income. Jan Petersen is also still charging the electricity. It is not possible to see the electricity charge isolated from the electricity price in general. In fact, we in Norway today have a very cheap current. There will also be after this increase in the electricity charge, which is also combined with lower tax relief and increased investment in alternative environmentally friendly forms of energy. A party engaged in environmental policy should be interested in this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e206	I think it is a disappointing lack of historical sus over this financial debate. At the beginning of a new century, I expected the Prime Minister to be more concerned with producing visions for the next few years than with settling the housing for a government. I think that's a little puzzled. On the SV side, it seems almost like the only vision that the government has is block independence, and it overshadows everything else. That's why I want to challenge the head of government on what is the government's political ambitions for the next two years, because it must be more important then what the government wants to cooperate with the opposition about, than ever to be told that it does not lean to any side. Norway has an opportunity and a starting point that no other country has. We have a wealth that can be used wisely, and on one essential point we need a strong commitment: to replace the oil economy with a knowledge-based and competence-based green economy for the future. We can't wait two years, as the government adds up in this area. Another challenge is that private consumption in Norway has increased much more than public consumption since 1993. If we're going to be able to do something about the standard difference in school and in health, as many people experience as a paradox every day, it has to be reversed. Is the government interested in that? The third is that we don't just have to chat about reducing differences in Norway. Norway is in a situation where we can eliminate poverty, if we want. Therefore, my challenge to Bondevik is this: What is the Government's political project in addition to an intense desire for block independence?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e217	The government has policy objectives and visions into a new millennium. They are described both in the Declaration of Accession and in the Government's Declaration of Accession, and I was also interested in it in my post. We have a vision, which Kristin Halvorsen now had in mind, of a policy of increased solidarity with the weak in our own society, but also in other countries, where the problems are far greater, in solidarity with the poor and persecuted world. Norway was even a poor country a hundred years ago, and for that reason, next to Ireland, we had the largest emigration to America. After a hundred years, Norway has become one of the richest countries in the world. What do we do with that wealth? Do we just use it on ourselves, or do we use it on those who really suffer in the world society? Some of the things that upset me most in Norwegian politics are the constant attacks and cutbacks on our aid to the poor people of the world. I also have a vision of a society in Norway that takes better care of the cultural and human relations and values. It's a paradox that while we have a higher level of well-being and prosperity than ever before, we also seem to have increasing human problems in a number of areas. It turns into disciplinary problems, crime, care failure, etc. And it shows that it's not just the economy and the organization of a society that creates a good society. It also has value-consciousness to do with what ethical standards and relationships we build this society. We have a vision of making this conscious, and that's also one of the reasons why we've stimulated a debate on value, including a debate on value. through the Value Commission. I would have liked to have used far more minutes to say something about our visions for the next millennium, the theme had demanded it, but I understand that time does not allow it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e229	First a few words about corporate taxation, because now the Prime Minister has repeated, twice today, wrong things about the tax regime from the Government and the central parties. He said in both the response to Jagland and in response to Petersen that they had the «screen» companies, and that the government had to oppose pressure from the Workers' Party when it came to creating unpredictable framework conditions for the companies. That's wrong! In fact, it is the Government that has repeatedly proposed dramatic changes in taxation also of small businesses, not least by increasing the most important of all corporate taxes, the tax on general income. NOK 1.2 billion was the proposal, and it was launched again in the autumn in connection with the negotiations in the media as a center option containment. The second is that he said that the production companies are protected, because the changes in the sharing model do not affect them. It's also wrong! Two points, inter alia: the rate of return on capital has changed, affecting production enterprises. In particular, these are details, but it's just that the Prime Minister repeats it and repeats it on TV and in major debates, and that's and remains wrong. So he should cancel the claim that the companies have been protected. That's not the case! Dramatic increases have been proposed. It is the Workers' Party that has prevented the greatest increases, including: in the case of increased taxes on general income. We stand for predictability. The government stands for unforeseeability by constantly returning to proposals for increased tax on general income and proposals for other corporate tax increases and tax increases. Furthermore, I believe that the Prime Minister did not answer the main question put by the representative, Mr Jagland, namely, how can the Government imagine that in the long run it shows that the best solutions exist at the intersection between the centre and the Workers' Party? Odd Roger Enoxsen has said that good solutions in the important issues next year will only be possible at the intersection between the centre and the Workers' Party. Then we believe that at some point the center must choose to cooperate either one way or the other. We hope that they work together against social democracy, because we agree that there are the best solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e240	It was not a big surprise that the Vice President of the Workers' Party believes that the best solutions exist in social democracy. I understand that the Labour Party disagrees with the situation that the central government has broken down the traditional two-block stitching in Norwegian policy. But we have! That has happened, and it must also soon be said in the Labour Party! So the center parts are not going to bind one side up to one block, even though both the Working Party and the Right dream of the old two block fence. So Stoltenberg says that the Workers' Party's proposal will not involve any significant change and will create increased unforeseeability of the company's framework conditions. Jo! Although Stoltenberg says that it is wrong, that is correct. The Labour Party has proposed such drastic changes as regards the sharing model and the share rebates — and had also wished for a different system for the shipping tax — that there would be a major change in the framework conditions for business and create greater unforeseeableness. We have opposed that. With regard to the split model, it is true that two points have changed, including with consistency for production companies. These are the identification rules. They also agreed, so that shouldn't be the big problem. And that's the rate of return on capital, which is reduced by 1 pst. It has, among other things, background to an excessive risk premium. This may result in some of the profits being taxed as personal income, i.e. at a higher rate than the capital income percentage of 28. It remains that the NHO, as I know, is relatively close to the Right, has actually expressed quite reasonably satisfied with the budgetary agreement that has now come out of the Stortinges' proceedings. [[Jan Petersen signals that he wants to speak.]] That the Right is not satisfied, and that Jan Petersen will express it, I am fully aware of. But I'm more reassured that NHO's management has a much more relaxed relationship with what is now adopted in Stortinget tonight than the Right obviously has.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e253	The President has noticed that the representative Petersen is asking for the floor, but the President assumes that there will be full opportunity in the subsequent debate to come back to what had to burn. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e258	It was only when the centre parties began to cooperate with the Workers' Party that they got an impact on the values they've been talking about for years. The budgetary agreement means a fairer distribution and increased bet on the common good. Since the pre-capitalisation of 1997 and until this year, the central parties have been associated with the two right parties on large tax reliefs to those who have the most, and cash disbursements rather than bet on the common good. This year's budget agreement means that the Workers' Party has agreed to go the opposite way. Now they're willing to close some of the tax havens they helped open up to the richest. The working party has given the centre parties tax relief to them with the lowest incomes instead of relief to the richest. It's about great relief, and there's agreement to go further next year. The Centre Parties have also joined with the Workers' Party in strengthening common consumption in key areas, such as kindergartens and schools. The Labour Party has been given the centre parties to reintroduce the low-wage sick pay scheme – a scheme which they took away with the Right and the Advance Party last year. Of course, the Workers' Party has not had an impact on its entire programme. It was not possible in the current situation, but the course is reversed in a different direction. The reconciliation between the centre parties and the Working Party can therefore be an important turning point. After that, it would be quite incomprehensible if the centre parties were to go back to working with the right hand side. I guess you can't go into one year for a policy that means increasing the fairness and strengthening of the common consumption, which these parties have been talking about for years, and the next year, we'll work together with the parties on the right that will put a line over what was achieved. The possibility of taking new steps in the right direction along with the Workers' Party is also being questioned. After hearing the Prime Minister earlier today, I still wonder if that's how the Government thinks that one can cooperate with the Labour Party one year on fair distribution, and then beat the whole thing to death in collaboration with the right parties next year. Then I want to say about the school debate: after what has happened so far in this big time period, I think it's strange that the two right parties are afraid to stick their heads forward. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have entered into budgetary settlements with the Centre Parties in the last two years, but they have not used their influence to invest in the School. They used all their power to remove tax increases, and pressured the centre parties to weaken the municipal economy. The municipalities are known to be responsible for the schools in the country. The right says that it was not possible to get anything in the school sector last year, because you had to correct the economy and focus on it. This isn't right. The truth is that the Right demanded major additions in a number of other areas, but not to the school. The additions came to defenses, roads and cash support, despite the need to cut down on a wide range of areas, but the additions did not come to the school. The consequence of this is that the City Council of the Right in Oslo presented its municipal budget for the year 2000 with cuts of over 100 million. kr in Oslo School. The budget was also presented nine days after the election, where the right had promised a big effort at the school. When you know the conditions of some of the Oslo schools, I think this is a shame to the Right. And that's good and noticing until the Right has played beyond the side line here in the Storting, and they're standing without any influence, that they really want to bet on the school. The working party has not promised that much. In return, we carry out what we promise. When we get influence, we use it to follow up what we say. It is the municipalities that are responsible for the schools. Therefore, the appropriations for the local government sector are increased by DKK 1 billion more than that provided by the government. 500 million. SEK of which is free income. If the municipalities use this at school, it's going to be $800 more per month. students in free resources. Today, some schools only spend between 8 and 10 kroner per month. students when all fixed expenses, such as wages and salaries and maintenance, have been paid. The working party has received 120 million. kr more to universities and colleges. The Workers' Party has received 100 million for the school leisure scheme. Extra kroner. We've taken the first step towards free textbooks in high school, with a grant of 100 million. kr. And there will be 1,000 new student cabins next year, which several promised in the election campaign, but which were not followed up. But we followed this up in the budget negotiations. The working party has managed to get a lot for the school, while spending on the elderly and health care is being carried out as planned, and while we have had to be involved in financing NOK 3 billion in cash support. When we see the great shortage of health care and education, it is easy to see how much better it would have been to spend this money in these areas. But the Workers' Party does not consider it appropriate that this case should shut the party off from affecting economic policy, thus making it easy for the Right and the Advance Party to push the course further over to the right. The budget agreement is called on the right to the budget of the lost funds. If the Right had got its will, the low-wage workers with strenuous jobs would have been the big losers. It is those who get dizzy, if the payment of sick pay is halved in the first three days, and then goes down to 90 pst., as the Right proposes in its budget. Had the Right had its will, parents who have children in the school leisure system would have been the great losers. It is those who get the bill if the State aid to the scheme is to be completely cut off for all those other than the 6-year-olds who are proposed by the Right. If the Right had got its way, the unemployed who needed labour market measures would have become the losers, when the Right proposes to remove 1,500 action places. The only ones I can see who have lost opportunities in the budgetary conciliation between the Labour Party and the Centre parties are the Right and the Advance Party, which can no longer govern economic policy. And I think that's a win, not a loss. But I want to add that it is remarkable how the Right has managed to play beyond the side line. Last year, the Right was in a budget settlement. But the party has – it's almost incredible – not used this platform to build any alliances in Stortinget. The right has used the year that has gone to stand outside. The right now has only one partner, the Advance Party – and you should be careful with that lot, as you know. I hope that what has happened can help establish a more stable majority of the parties behind the basic values of the welfare society. We see how big the tasks in the welfare community are. It is linked to the ageing of the population and the continued introduction of new technologies into the health system. At the same time, we are in a knowledge revolution that makes it necessary to invest enormously in research and education. This is not free. The challenges cannot be solved by the magic forms of the right parties, such as tax relief and privatisation. A majority must be willing to tell the population that we have to make a value choice: we have to be willing to prioritize health, the elderly and education, and pay for it. Those who have the most have to pay the most. The need for fair distribution is as strong now as it was before. The need for community – to solve tasks together – is just as strong now as it was before. The right-hand side tries to give the impression and try to create the understanding that fair distribution and community are immature. But these are most modern values, just as modern as these values have been over the century we are now leaving. Justice and solidarity are the best builder. These values bind society together and make society something other than a market or a store. On the market, it wins the strongest. In a society, we're going to take care of each other. That is why we have built up Community schemes in the fields of health, care for the elderly and education. Neither can one run from this learning into the new century. On the contrary, it is necessary to ring the bells of our Community systems. Moreover, it is necessary to recover political governance. In 1997, the centre parties opted for a smaller adjustment to the outside world and for more governance. But we have never had a government with so little will to control, and that adapts as much as now. This willlessness does not benefit from compensating by vetoing a few directives in the EU. Norwegian industry and banking will not stop flagging out of that ground. The challenge of Norwegian business to compete in foreign markets will not be less, rather the opposite. In the global economy of Norway, being part of it now, it does not benefit from any fine words or symbolism policy. Political action must be taken, otherwise Norway will become a branch country with a lot of money, but hardly owns anything. Norway has always served as part of an open world economy. We have access to capital and markets, which have been necessary to build jobs and well-being. Norway is completely dependent on this continuing into the future. That is why we must be part of the global economy. But we also rely on strong Norwegian ownership environments so that head offices, and thus research and competence, can stay in the country. We depend on Norwegian companies being able to invest and make alliances out there. Only then can they secure jobs at home. Therefore, a state policy is urgent in order to ensure national ownership and help Norwegian business to bet out. The Labour Party is pleased that the Centre parties have agreed to examine our proposal to set up an investment company, consisting of private and public capital, which will be responsible for such strategic investments. But it's urgent to establish it, just as it's urgent to put in place a Norwegian bank solution. I'm glad that there is now a majority of the Workers' Party's arrangements with regard to the banks. It is now necessary to demonstrate the country’s capacity to take action in order to put such a solution in place, otherwise other actors will take over. It is not the government's responsible policy to sit on the fence with all its capital and watch the business out. If there is no initiative from the Government here, we simply have to note that it is different from most other governments in Europe who are now taking action to secure the national economy in a global reality. In many circles it has widened the view that it is not possible to influence development through democratic decisions. The market has taken over too well. That's the consequence of the global economy, it's called. I'm of a different opinion. Political governance is possible — and more necessary than ever — in a reality that seems very confusing and insecure to an increasing number of people. Then you have to do something other than willingly adapt and passive administration. The government has, through the budgetary agreement, moved towards a fairer distribution. I hope that the Government will also support the Workers' Party in industrial policy and structural policy, so that the policy is shaped by a will for governance. Norway has good opportunities to secure its national economy, while being a credible participant in the global economy, precisely because the state has a lot of capital. Let's make use of that possibility in a partnership with private capital. The Right Party and the Advance Party have traditional state fears, they don't use it to build on. But by cooperating with the Labour Party, it is the majority of an active government policy for governance. It is necessary to ensure the basis for our welfare society into a global economy, a global reality.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e325	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e328	Recent oil prices have increased, and revenue for 1999 appears to be higher than estimated for the Norwegian country. However, the consequences for ordinary people in this country are that the price of petrol in the pumps will be significantly higher. Gas prices are a sum of crude oil prices and State taxes, and when crude oil prices rise, petrol prices rise. It will increase inflation, increase prices, in general in Norway and reduce purchasing power for ordinary people. I would like to ask the head of the Workers' Party if he would like to take part in the Advance Party's proposal, our idea that the petrol charge may vary slightly in line with the oil price, so that we can ensure a stable price of petrol for the Norwegian people – when the oil price rises, the fuel charge goes down, and vice versa, if necessary. Is there at all any reason why the Norwegian people have to pay higher gas prices when the economy of the country has improved considerably? Why do not Jagland and the Labour Party want to ensure the lowest possible petrol price for the Norwegian people, as we have opportunities to do? Iland also mentioned, like the Prime Minister, the health service. There is a deficit in 1999, which hospitals will have to cover in the event of a decrease in activity next year. Will the Labour Party join in the proposal the Progress Party will promote, to reorganise all deficits on the 1999 budget? The 2000 budget is being adopted today. But we will continue to balance the 1999 budget, and it is fully possible to allocate the necessary funds to hospitals, so that they do not have to endure deficits in the next year. Can we expect Jagland to follow up what he himself is talking about from this pulpit?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e335	The garden jumps from one to another. Now it's all of a sudden the gas prices are the important thing, in the line change with the prime minister it was the hospitals. I fully agree that you might need to have a little more stability in petrol prices. You could look at that. But you can't escape the fact that our well-being has to be paid. And what the Progress Party stands for in fiscal policy and fiscal policy is huge cuts in both taxes and taxes that would not have led to more, among other things. to the health care system. So Hagen can't be the first to talk about balancing the debt at our hospitals, he should be the last to talk about it. He should be the last to talk about the common good, because the Progress Party does not really have a plan to finance our common good. When it comes to the concrete issue of cleaning the hospital deficits, we first have to go through the situation, and then we have to take the political decisions. It is not sustainable to make policy decisions on the basis of newspaper headlines. We politicians have to take this much more seriously. Above all, I think it is now necessary not only with money, but with control – because if you now cash more money into a system that may not be able to control this, we only get a new problem two years later. We therefore need better control. I want to add that it is remarkable how fast it goes from oil prices to rising until politicians start talking about spending a lot more money again. It's not more than a year since the situation was completely reversed. But just in advance of the oil price drop, almost everyone here in Stortinget had talked about spending more oil money. Then it ended a short period when oil prices fell. But when oil prices rise again, it only takes a few months for you to start the same lesson again. I must say I'm amazed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e346	The negotiations we have conducted with the Labour Party on the state budget for next year have been both good and effective. Iland accused in his post the Government of standing for a willless adaptation to reality. I think it is both a bold and completely unreasonable claim, when at the same time he devalues almost the government's expressed willingness to use the veto for problematic directives within the EEA Agreement if necessary. I am very pleased that the Workers' Party has adapted to reality in the way that they this time entered into budgetary negotiations with us and accepted what the Stortinget had established by a majority decision, namely that cash support should be a permanent offer for the families of children. It was a crucial obstacle to a budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party. But they adapted this time to a reality that made us come to what I want to characterize as a very good deal. I understand that the Labour Party is in agreement, and negotiations have been successful. Jens Stoltenberg boasted that the Workers' Party has a will for predictability for business. It would then be interesting to know whether the leader of the Workers' Party now from this pulpit will take the opportunity to conclude that the repeated hacking of important framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises, which relate to the sharing model, is going to end. They have an important role to play in predictability and stability and can provide peace and security for important jobs in the country of origin.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e357	Norway may have to veto some of the directives currently under discussion. In that case, the government will be responsible for seeing the impact of this. But it must not replace action in the most central areas of governance of our national economy. If you want to give the impression that you're acting in relation to the ownership of business, in relation to the ownership of the banks, we're on wild roads. That's what was my point. And it's been enough of analyses and newspaper articles that go on how much Norway adapts, but it should actually be the other way around. The Labour Party claims that we are part of the European and global economy, so we have had completely different analyses of it. But the center parties thought that it was possible to be completely different, and have active control. But we haven't seen anything like that in my opinion. On the contrary, it can be said that in very key areas such as ensuring national ownership in, for example: The financial world has been less effective here than in many other European countries — including countries that have a more right-wing government than what we have in Norway today. As far as predictability in the tax system is concerned, I am in favour of it. I think it is necessary to create broad compromises that can provide predictability both for business and for individuals in Norway. It is not very predictable that the government will repeatedly make large increases in taxes for ordinary employees and say it has nothing to do with business. Our business consists of employees. It's just as unpredictable for business to experience that you're tearing up the kind of tax compromises that you've had in this country, as it's going to go free of corporate tax. It was precisely that predictability was the basis of the 1992 tax compromise, but the government has not contributed to it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e366	The representative Jagland is not at home, literally, when he talks about the situation in Oslo. He substantiates some facts, including: The fact that the Oslo School is so heavily invested in, among other things. increasing education that an average student in Oslo school receives one year more education than that provided to it at a central level. He underscores the fact that with the Workers' Party's municipal economic structure, Oslo will come out considerably worse and get less money to invest in unresolved tasks, among other things. construction of school buildings. He underscores the fact that building schools and investing in the school lay below the Gerhardsen City Council, and now it is raised to a significant and higher level, but still weakened by the Workers' Party's municipal structure. I am not at home, either, to describe the policy of the Right in general. Well, we cut the sick pay system, but he underestimates the fact that we don't cut as drastically as his Swedish social democrats. He underestimates the fact that with our arrangement it would have been 1 billion extra to bet on at school, 1 billion extra on the road and 1 billion more, yes, well and well, for the families of children. If Igland is at home when he's going to teach others how to build strategies, I'm also more in doubt about. The Labour Party, as you know, left the government for the first time in social democratic recent history in 1997, because the centre parties were so hopeless to cooperate with. Last year he was willing to roll over the center government with the Right, possibly. Now he's gonna propose to the same center parties. The Christian People's Party has characterized itself as the greatest challenger of social democracy. And Jagland equips this proposal to his greatest challenger, as it is called, with the following quote from his own post: «But we have never had a government with such little will to govern... as it is now.» Well, that's the closest sheik you can come with to the Government without being a club. A bit of an invitation!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e375	As far as Oslo School is concerned, it's a fact that you cut over 100 million. kr. I haven't seen anyone in Oslo school be satisfied with that cut. On the contrary, I hear a lot of examples of how bad conditions are at many schools in Oslo. The Labour Party in Oslo proposed another 194 million. In addition, as a result of the draft budget presented by the City Council. So Foss boasts that the right now bets 1 billion extra at school. Yes, it got the Workers' Party until now, but the point is that this only comes when the Right has sat outside. When they had the opportunity to get something last year, they didn't bet on the school, so they put the effort to get 3 billion for cash support, defence and roads. You could think of it as what you want, but that's actually what you did. And when you don't have any influence anymore, you have a lot of money for school. That's what I think is amazing. Otherwise, the Labour Party did not go off for the first time in 1997. We went off in 1981, and we went off in 1989 after the election results. We were not willing to roll the center government with the Right, but we were willing to create a budget in case the center parties were unable to get a budget. It was 12 hours you actually managed, and I think it was the result of the Workers' Party being willing to act. So we might have done the Storting and the Land a great favor, because they suddenly got together and got into a budget together with the Right and the Advance Party. But once again, there wasn't the school right put in the foreground by the budget deal; it was completely different matters.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e390	Not surprisingly, the head of the Workers' Party said that he is satisfied with the budgetary agreement that has been established between the Centre and the Workers' Party. Jagland said that the Workers' Party had not got through ‘all its program’ on this occasion, but one could almost get the impression that it was close. Then I have to remember that 99.6 pst. the budget of the central government actually survives this budgetary procedure in Stortinget – and it must be almost a record. The central parties are satisfied with the budgetary agreement, because the main priorities of the central government budget are in fact well maintained, not weakened, and not least that this budgetary agreement provides the basis for continuing the stabilisation line of the economy under the government. I'm making the impression that it's the center parties that have changed the cooperative position on this occasion. However, the head of the Workers' Party cannot at least admit that the main reason for this autumn's budgetary process has been somewhat different — to say the least cautiously — is that the Workers' Party has taken a more realistic view of budgetary cooperation, among other things. by accepting the cash support, and that it is the Workers' Party that has actually gone from refusal of liability to willingness to take responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e399	We're happy to have reached an agreement here on 99.6 pst. It is probably the case in most budget negotiations that most of the things at the bottom of the budget are agreed on, and then there is a dispute about how to use economic growth. And it's not that small, because that's what determines the direction of the budget. Now, if you agree on what you've done this year, another year and then another year, you'll of course get a completely different course. If the centre parties had joined the Right and the Advance Party for another year and then another year, the course would have gone much more to the right. It is quite right that the basis for the cooperation this year is also that the Workers' Party has said yes, we put the cash support at the bottom of this budget. We fought against cash support the year it was introduced for the 1-year-olds. We fought against it when it came to introducing it for the two-year-olds, who are this year. When the system is then fully implemented, we have to assume that it is a majority for it, and then it will not shut down cooperation for the rest of the period. This does not mean that the Workers' Party is in favour of the scheme. But I've said many times that I think it's necessary to find predictability when it comes to family policy, and that can gather wider than what has been the case in the two years we have behind us. However, it remains to be seen whether there is a possibility of doing so when we are going to evaluate and possibly change the cash support scheme. However, until then, the Labour Party has been committed to bringing about changes that can also contribute to a broader collection of child and family policies. It is not only in business that predictability is needed, I think the families in Norway also need predictability when planning for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e406	I agree with the head of the Workers' Party when he says that the greatest gain of the budgetary agreement that has now been concluded is that the Right and the Advance Party do not participate in the formulation of the policy. But it is, in fact, a modest compromise in terms of policy content, and it is particularly true that there has been a theme here, namely education, because there is almost nothing there. I also agree with the head of the Workers' Party that governance is one of the most fundamental things in the future. And a result of a lack of governance, Stortinget is now dealing with the banking system. Had we not had the weak government we have had, what is now happening to Norwegian banks had not happened, simply because a few ago Stortinget thought we should have three banking environments, one of which is outside Oslo. So all of a sudden, the Storting believes that there should only be two banking environments. And now perhaps the Storting believes that there should only be one banking environment. Thus, despite the state ownership of banks, there is no predictability of the framework conditions for that structure. In many different areas of society, we have the opportunity to use the state as a buffer and as an active driver to create structures that are best suited to society. What has happened to the Norwegian banks, which also affected the head of the Workers' Party, is a typical example of what you experience when you have governments that govern from day to day and do not have the opportunity to have long-term involvement in their policies. It leads me to what's my question to Thorbjørn Jagland, and it depends on how to get out of such a situation. Hill-Marta Solberg spoke yesterday about the majority constellations, and Kirsti Kolle Grondahl has talked about the need for us to have majority parliamentaryism. And my question to the representative of Jagland is this: how does he imagine that the long-termity that he himself is calling for should be managed? And what political action/constitutional action is what he means, and – of course – who does he mean to design the majority?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e417	SV could contribute to a little more long-termity. Now, Djupedal said there's almost nothing to education. My impression is that SV is in full glide flight over where – together with many others – they were before oil prices fell last year. Then you were going to use in the east and west. And then you've had a little break when oil prices have been low, and now when they start going up again, everyone talks about as if we hadn't had the year last year. I would like to encourage SV to have a little more stability in this and not contribute to the fact that political governance is going to be hopeless, even in the case of the state's finances. Otherwise, I broadly agree with what was said about the banking system, except that it is not the government's fault that the framework conditions change significantly as a result of the globalisation of the economy. But what's been our charge is that you're sitting too passive and not dealing with it. The ownership of the State shall not be to contribute to the status quo, because that is not possible. The State shall be active in ensuring its own ownership in a reality that changes from day to day. There I have the impression that SV is very much on that everything should be as it has been, while in reality, I think, will undermine the country's ownership and national ownership. We should get out of this situation and get more actionable constellations, but it requires more parties than the Workers' Party and SV to think in those paths. I hope it can mature, and I think there should be discussions on this, also in the case of constitutional proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e426	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e429	Today's newspaper says: «Sickness of strength victims of lack of money. Cancer patients do not receive the latest and best medicines due to lack of money.’ – It really goes right into the debate we have in our country, that when the Norwegian State receives new, unbudgeted and unexpected revenues, while Prime Minister, Finance Minister and Labour Party leader repeats to the horror that Norway is one of the richest countries in the world, ordinary people ask themselves: Why can't it benefit the Norwegian people to any greater extent? I actually think there are a lot of areas where we can be more responsive to the generation we now have. It seems especially for the elderly as if the situation is that when things go well with the Norwegian economy, the money is to be added to Kjell Magne Bondevik, Thorbjørn Jagland, Jan Petersen and Carl I. Hagen are pensioners. Why can't those who built this country get a little better and safer old age too? To me, it's a value question that the Prime Minister loves to talk about. Is it really as the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and Jagland claim that we have no opportunity to improve the situation for those who built the country? Is it that if we spend money, we get increased inflation, increased competitiveness and a possible future loss of jobs and a hopeless future? I actually think we can do far more than what we're doing today, without going into the trap that we in the Progress Party too know it's easy to go in. If we had, for example, set up a slightly different state budget, where we held on one side things that clearly did not affect the Norwegian domestic economy, among others. Purchases of goods and services abroad, and purchases of goods and services with a certain opportunity over a few years to adapt the activity to the economy, we would have avoided the debate that every single penny used generates inflation, regardless of whether it is used to buy any technical equipment abroad that does not affect the Norwegian economy at all, or whether it is used to demand labour in the Norwegian market, thereby increasing demand. I am convinced that such an arrangement would show us some possibilities. We can do some things that don't affect Norwegian domestic economy. Most of the medicines are produced in and purchased from abroad. It has no impact on the Norwegian economy or inflation. Why can't we then make sure that what's available from good, helpful and healthy medicine can benefit Norwegian patients more? Why should we read that there is a shortage of money in Norway, not a shortage of labour, but lack of money, which is because we do not have the best cancer medicine? There is more and more talk about importing more labour. We say that in some areas we have a shortage of labour, and then we have to open up new labour force immigration. Has Jagland, Petersen and Bondevik really forgotten that it has not been so many years since unemployment was the big problem in Norway? We cannot import more labour because, if we do not know if we want unemployment in three to four years, we will not be able to import more labour because we do not know if we want unemployment in three to four years. Then it must be much better that, if we do not have the ability to produce goods and services even because of lack of people, we import services to a greater extent. We have a financial opportunity to do that. Norway is in a situation where we can and should organise, to a far greater extent, the purchase of healthcare from abroad. There are many patients waiting for surgery, which are not necessary from a life-threatening situation. To a far greater extent, we should be able to remove our health cows by offering patients who want it to be operated on abroad. Instead of moving personnel to Norway to carry out operations here, patients who themselves want to have a faster operation can get it through available capacity abroad. The same applies to care for the elderly. There are many older people in Norway who receive public assistance, and where there is a lack of staff to provide help, home help, home care or other care services, such as: in nursing homes or in nursing homes. There too, it is fully possible to think a little new and rationally and make offers to those who want it, for short or longer stays in Norwegian-led and Norwegian-led institutions built and established in other countries, in a much warmer climate. Many would like to travel on holiday to Cyprus, to Spain, to the Canary Islands and to Mallorca. Why can't we make offers in these places to those of our older people who want to? You can have some Norwegian staff who have daily contact with the elderly, while those who make the food, clean, wash the clothes and maintain the buildings can be local workers. Then many would get a better offer in warmer climates, which in itself would be health-intensive, while at the same time we would not at all have the demand effect on the Norwegian labour market, where it is claimed that there is a shortage of people. Thus, both in health care and care for the elderly, where it is said that the scarcity factor is labour, we can actually import services by offering treatment abroad to those who want it. Now probably some newspaper will say that now Hagen will export the old ones. But I say emphatically that it should be voluntary. And I've been in contact with quite a few older people who would very much like to be one, two, three or four months in a warmer country, where they could get the necessary offers. It can be organised in many different ways there, depending on the level of care services needed. If it is that you would like to have the opportunity to help all healthy elderly people for a better life, but that we can't increase pensions and can't do anything because it increases the demand pressure in the Norwegian economy, you could, as a municipality in Denmark has done, offer some pensioners vacation stays, paid by the state, abroad. My point is that I think it is immoral that when we have good finances and get unexpected money that is not predetermined in a budget, they go without debate, without discussion, into the so-called oil fund to pay the pensions to Bondevik, Hagen, Petersen and Jagland when we need it in a few years' time. We must be able to do something for those who have built this country. We have to be able to make sure that they also get a joy out of the situation. I am not talking about permanent arrangements that cannot be adapted to the situation if the oil price falls. I agree with Mr. Jagland that we can't have a solid basis on that, but there's something we can do. When we spend money abroad, and it doesn't affect the Norwegian economy, we could stimulate, for example. to increase activity in advertising for Norwegian travel life around the world. It does not affect the Norwegian economy, unless you get more tourism, as you say in all other contexts is good. We could and should now have launched a relatively comprehensive international campaign to win a hearing for whaling and self-afraid, especially because the selenium now eats a quantity of fish equivalent to the Norwegian fishing quotas, and we therefore need to reduce the stock of seels in order to increase the number of fish for Norwegian fisheries. We have the opportunity to engage actively in influence work abroad in order to get ahead of this, and if there is now a release in the fishing fleet due to lower quotas, there could be a switch to self-anxiousness. So we have a lot of opportunities in the situation in Norway. What was good about the last oil crisis is that the oil companies are now planning, based on the oil price being between 10 and 12 or maybe 13 dollars, and they should keep doing that, because we have no guarantee that this will be the long-term situation. But pretending that we don't now have an opportunity to do things for the Norwegian people because of the new economic situation is meaningless. My questions to the Right, the Labour Party and the Government are: Why should not those who built this country benefit from the present situation? And why in the world should Norwegian drivers, as I mentioned in a reply earlier, have about Europe's highest petrol price, when Norway has the opportunity to keep a stable petrol price between NOK 6.50 and NOK 7? It would benefit the families of children, it would benefit the entire Norwegian people. But then the government parties and the Workers' Party say, "No! When oil prices go up, Norwegian people have to pay more for the gas. What kind of a value attitude is this toward those we're set to represent? I don't think it makes any sense. We can also, and should probably for several reasons, buy teaching services abroad. I want to say that in the case of higher education at universities, we should bet on sending more people abroad to study. At that time, we would reduce the demand for all that results in the provision of higher education services in Norway. And those who study abroad get an additional competence in language, culture, knowledge, contacts and friends, and they become more focused on what is happening in the field of globalisation. We've obviously seen the sense that we have a large import of clothes and shoes. Of course, we could have produced all shirts, dresses, dresses, blouses and shoes in Norway. The price of a pair of shoes would be NOK 3000 and a dress of NOK 6000. But we have imported it because it serves both those who produce it abroad, and it serves us. We can also do the same thing with services. It looks like there's a blockage of the majority in this hall against doing it. But we can provide fees scholarships and payments to foreign universities that can make it more beneficial for Norwegian students to study abroad, acquire skills and knowledge there, and learn the language. We don't have to do all of this ourselves. There are some things we have to do here, but in times when we have a good foreign economy, you have to start thinking a little bit new. You complain about the shortcomings at home, that there is too little capacity. But we can't build up a capacity in the good times that we may not afford in the bad, because then it's harder to change, but we can actually use the opportunities in good times. With regard to equipment acquisitions that do not affect the Norwegian economy, we can ensure that Norwegian schools and universities have the best IT equipment available. It is purchased from abroad and does not affect the economy, it only affects the ability to receive good education at schools and universities. We can also ensure that Norwegian hospitals have the most state-of-the-art equipment available, because it is produced abroad and does not affect the Norwegian economy, plus that it would make the business more efficient. Megland and Bondevik said instead that we have to look at the way hospitals are run. Yeah, we've been doing that for 15 years. They say no every time there is a proposal from the Progress Party to do what is necessary, namely to bring all the hospitals together into a state responsibility, so that state politicians and national politicians do not blame each other. It's the same people who have run the health care system every year, who oppose each time we others propose the necessary changes, which are more and more uplifted. Then I must congratulate Thorbjørn Jagland that he has managed to move on 0.4 pst. by the budget, managed to secure the municipalities 0,5 pst. more money, and that looks at these 0.4 pst. and 0.5 pst. Like a big victory. It's quite well done.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e481	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e484	We're going to bet on care for the elderly and health care. That's why the Workers' Party says older people and health first. And that's why the Workers' Party said at the entrance to this ageing period that we wanted to provide a program of 30 billion kroner to expand care provision, to build nursing homes, to build exclusive homes. Not NOK 1 billion, not NOK 2 billion, not NOK 5 billion, but NOK 30 billion – a massive expansion. The party's follow-up to it when they came into a position to negotiate the budget here in the house, was that they said it was not so important to keep pace with this implementation of the reform for the elderly. The pace of implementation was postponed, under strong criticism from the Labour Party. That's how Hagen talks about money. If we remember the financial debate in the autumn of 1997, the representative stressed Hagen in his intervention in the debate where the Norwegian economy was based in his view. And he said the big crowd is talking about "unnoticeable signals," and: ‘There are warnings. I have a big problem understanding the logic of it." This was said by the representative Hagen in the autumn of 1997. He wanted to spend more money. There are probably not so many who remember Mr Hagen's contributions to the financial debate in 1997. But what most remember is that in the autumn of 1998, relatively shortly after Hagen's contributions, interest rates rose to a level that made people have significant problems, people fled from the Bondevik government, people understood that even if the economy is bottom-solid, it must be governed. They fled from people like Hagen, who said he has trouble understanding the logic. Perhaps it would have been useful for Hagen to remember what happened between the financial debate in 1997 and the financial debate in 1998?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e497	I don't know if I'm gonna laugh or cry. We are discussing the future and next year's state budget, and Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen will talk about 1997 and 1998. He can do that with his usual fairy tales. The Progress Party has for many years established that we have a basic good state economy. We've been run by different people, who have caused problems, both with high interest rates and inflation. The Progress Party has always said that we should primarily have a low inflation rate, we have told the Bank of Norway that we should. The majority have said no to it, they will do it in other ways. We have said that if we reduce some charges, price increases in Norway will decrease. Anyone should understand, if you do not belong to the majority in this Chamber, that we are reducing the rates of petrol and some other charges, it will be less price increases, and that will benefit the Norwegian people. I think the Norwegian people well remember what we have said. Then you come back with this with the care of the elderly. That's not set at NOK 30 billion. It has been promised NOK 30 billion over a 30-year period. I wish the Workers' Party would now stop making this false picture that it is worth NOK 30 billion. It's definitely not. It is more than 30 years old, and the essential thing is loans that municipalities are going to raise to build buildings – hospital buildings. Unfortunately, there have been too many old-age homes instead of nursing homes, just as we have said it would be with the others. There's sick home places we need. And it's serving the loans to the buildings that bring the large amount of NOK 30 billion. And it'll be back in 30 years, because it's the payoff time. It is not directly granted more than approx. 6-7 billion kroner to date, so there's a completely wrong presentation Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen here gives. We never said that we should postpone anything. We took into account the municipalities that needed more time for planning.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e506	To a manifest misunderstanding!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e514	There is no obvious misunderstanding, probably just a political misunderstanding, and we can do that later in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e517	It is by economic means that the individual parties are making their priorities known, as well as to the Progress Party. The Government Parties have clearly indicated in this budget that they have a number of priority areas, not least in education, research and innovation, health and the elderly, international assistance and districts, just to mention some areas. We can read from the budget papers that this time the Progress Party is proposing to cut a total of 28 billion kroner in government expenditure in a year. So in one year it has to be cut 28 billion dollars! Is that possible? And where should it be cut into a budget framework that is in many cases already very tight? May not such cut also be said to be unrealistic if the party now pays and is responsible for the budget they present, not least on the basis of the strong signals that Carl I. Hagen has given here in the debate, linked to what has to do with health and care. Wouldn't those 28 billion also have to have consequences there? And how will it be possible to continue to maintain all the common good that society has laboriously built up over all these years, if 28 billion dollars are to be cut?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e524	Odd Holten also says that you've been focusing on health, the elderly, school and more things. What is Odd Holten's answer to that VG today, along with headlines in the Newspaper and other headlines in recent days, is clarifying the crisis that is? Hospital posts and hospital departments are going to be closed, and then you're going to look at the situation! This situation is well known to the ministry and government, and it is well known to the Norwegian people. What is necessary is action. The Progress Party has announced that we will propose to reorganise the debt and deficits of Norwegian hospitals in the 1999 budget, and to propose to the 1999 budget the necessary funds for Norwegian hospitals, so that hospital directors are engaged in healing and treating patients, rather than, as the majority would clearly like, that hospital directors are engaged in negotiations with organisations on cutting down and closing hospital posts. No one has taken our challenge on this. How is that possible, says Odd Holten. It's in the financial position! We've distributed to all party groups our entire budget, where we show where we've cut. We haven't cut off any of the primary things, but we've allowed ourselves to change 6 pst. of the budget. When you hear the billions of Odd Holten, you'd think it was awesome. 6 pst. of a budget of approx. $550 billion we've moved on. There is little in relation to companies that are suddenly told to cut down the workforce by 15 pst. But I just want to say to Odd Holten: read what we've distributed! We haven't cut in any of the areas that are important to the Norwegian people. There we go! And then we have significantly reduced taxes and charges, which will also lead to a reduction in price increases. And it will also be possible to ensure moderate salary settlement next year if taxes, taxes and price increases are lower.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e535	I agree with Carl I. Hagen when he underlines the need for deregulation of the public service sector, to release more individuals, to think creatively and to think again also in the public service sector. I also agree with Carl I. Hagen when he calls for a radical innovation in the organisation of our hospitals. We have made joint proposals on this. But I want to take a few small reservations, where I don't fully understand Hagen. Normally it is to say to a manager who has run his budget with considerable overruns, that it is to be abandoned every time, not a good incentive to keep budgets. I agree that budgets can often be too tight. But to be told that the exceedances are always given away is hopelessly also for a manager, even a director of a hospital. The second thing I want to say is that in addition to what Hagen now mentions, which we agree on and have promoted common proposals on, enough think there's a need to look at working time agreements and medical work schedules, so that doctors come back to the primary task, to work operationally, not with papers and meetings. There are many doctors who are also very frustrated. I also agree with Carl I. Hagen that there is a need for a better and safer old age for those who are today old, but it is also important to think of a better and safer old age for those who are going to grow old. In fact, the school sector is part of the High Value Creation Strategy for those who are going to live on the incomes of the next millennium, and that is not too long. That's why I don't fully understand Hagen's idea of cutting off the school sector. Hagen recently said in a programme that there are no posts on the state budget that directly apply to school. Yes, it is. Actually, these are posts that Carl I. Hagen cuts in. An entry called Quality Development in Primary School actually goes to Quality Development in Primary School. If you think it's too small, it's not the way to cut, it's the way to increase. You can always discuss how much you have to increase, but cutting doesn't improve quality.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e544	As long as the majority of this room opposes the completely necessary reorganization of the health sector so that it becomes a state financial responsibility, not via county municipalities, which only keep living in a difficult health administration and rather true in the machinery in the health sector, until hospitals are given far greater responsibilities and opportunities to influence their income far more than today by strengthening the input-based funding without the government being able to remove the carpet of hospital directors who rely on it by making changes and adjustments in the system to save money, and until hospitals have the freedom to manage and decide for themselves whether to hire more office staff to take care of the office work to release the medical staff to treat the sick, we will not want money to be the reason for shutting down and shutting down departments. Then we would say that as long as the majority do not do the necessary reorganisations, just talk about it, as the Prime Minister and Jagland do in every financial debate, where they say there is a need to do it, but then they forget it to the next financial debate, where they say exactly the same thing – they have done it for at least the last 16 years – we will not accept that lack of money is the reason for shutting down hospital departments and posts. Normally, I initially agree with Foss, but not when the Workers' Party and the government parties have organized Norwegian hospitals as hopelessly as they have done. They are responsible for every problem in the Norwegian health system. Every time you read that a post or something else is closed, Norwegian citizens should see that this is because of Jagland, and it is because of Bondevik and Højbrätten.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e549	With respect to reporting, it's very strange to hear from this pulpit, and what Hagen has served today, I guess, takes the price for the most part. Let me just go through what he's actually trying to say. He said quite clearly recently: we do not cut into things that are important to the Norwegian people. If we go into his budget, we find out that he's cut a lot. Only in education, he's cut 900 million. kr, in the municipal sector he has cut 3, 6 billion kroner, of which he boasts is less than 2 pst., and then he says that the dynamic effect of the overall arrangement of the Progress Party will more than compensate. But when it comes to the dynamic effect, you have to ask, what is the reality? One thing is that the Progress Party wants a completely different system, and you can kind of accept that, even though it's never that crazy. But it is not possible in the name of all realism to cut the money until the new system is in place. Because what that means is that all the people who are in hospitals, all the older people who are in the institution, all the kids who go to school, are actually going to notice the dramatic cuts that are here. If there is to be a betrayal of seriousness in that kind of policy, the system must first be changed so that the system can be given the necessary money. That's where you go wild, and especially when you say on top of everything that you don't kiss. You actually cut a lot of these fields very dramatically. It was also interesting to hear that Hagen wants more students to study abroad. I have great sympathy for that. I hope they get their girlfriends and bring back many foreign-cultural girlfriends. But there is no money here either. Today, over the state budget, we spend well over $1 billion on sending out students. That's great. But that also means that we have to accept more students from abroad, I guess, at our university. When we next propose that we increase the entry called fee grant, so that more of our young people get the opportunity to get out, and not least that more young people get the opportunity to come to Norway from other countries, I expect Hagen to say that this was a good proposal from the representative of Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e558	Mr. Øystein Djupedal thought that, at least as a member of the Financial Committee, I had entered the Budgetary Options of the Advance Party. He says we can't do things until the new system is in place. Part of what he calls a new system is not a new system. However, we have significantly reduced charges so that price increases in Norway will be significantly lower. Lower price increases mean that the same heads give more purchasing power, among other things. for the municipalities of the country. We have given tax reliefs, which result in price reduction measures, and we have given tax reliefs. Both of these things are absolutely central to the next year's wage settlement. With a lower price increase and lower taxes, the same purchasing power development will be achieved through lower nominal additions. It's that simple. This means that there is also a reduction in the gross crowns that go to some services, because the need has been reduced in advance as a result of lower price increases and the effect on wage settlements. This is related. So that you don't have the money to buy healthcare, care for the elderly and education services abroad. This is because all expenditure in all fiscal, macroeconomic calculations is in the same bag. Some might claim that if we now put some significant amounts into buying services abroad, it will affect the domestic economy. It doesn't really, but it does in the analyses. And that's what Stoltenberg is saying in this case, that the growth of public expenditure must not be more than the growth of mainland GDP. This is when one is stuck in the syrup, when one cannot distinguish between expenditure abroad and expenditure that causes some changes in the Norwegian economy. That's why what we're talking about is a much greater degree of massive investment in the purchase of services abroad, for the benefit of the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e565	There is in particular one positive side to this year's budgetary settlement, and it is that the Progress Party has been pushed out on the sidelines and in reality is without influence in Norwegian policy. The result is that we can work even more for a fairer distribution. The representative, too, Mr Hagen, was concerned that the budgetary agreement was about 0.4 p.m. But it's going to be a very crazy presentation. I'll allow myself to say it so that the other 99.6 pst. In general, old labour party policies are. It involves rights that we've worked for ordinary people, for the small crew, that Hagen is occupied with. There are major and important reforms in our society within the rest of the budget. I also want to correct what Hagen said earlier, that the elderly effort that the Workers' Party has fought for, means that we will spend 30 billion kroner in four years and not 30 years. Hagen was concerned that as the richest country in the world, we should make sure that some of the money would benefit ordinary people and a better and safer old age, and that it was those who built the country who would get the money. That's what we work for every single day. The point is that there is little of Hagen's policy that benefits ordinary people. For example, I want to do this. only mention the nearly DKK 4 billion that the Progress Party cuts into the local economy, which also means a breakdown of the offer to older people in the municipalities, which perhaps the representative should be concerned about in a situation here and now. On the other hand, the Progress Party subsidises the AMS scheme and gives to those who have money left over. It's probably not exactly the minimum pensioners who have the best use of it. I would like to ask the representative: When will you admit that there are healthy people with high income who serve on the policy of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e580	The President will state that the speech shall be corrected via the President.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e583	Let me first tell you, in case someone is following this debate outside the hall, that the average income for those who have AMS is NOK 250000. So there are ordinary people who have saved in the AMS and got a little tax reduction, and that's the Workers' Party and the Government now taking away. That's what we're looking at. The local economy is strengthened by NOK 2.4 billion – it is not a cut of 4 – calculated by the Statistical Central Bureau as the impact of our total economic package. But the Workers' Party can't deal with the truth. And now I'm happy! Now it's going to be festive! For Inger Lise Husøy, on behalf of the Workers' Party, says that 30 billion kroner will be allocated over four years. Then I am delighted at the financial grouping of the Workers' Party has asked all their advisers to document what chapters and items add up to NOK 30 billion in these four years, after the Progress Party in a change of terms was given a majority to oblige the Government to draw up an old-age care message, which then came and resulted in the initiative and the new arrangements relating to this area. There was absolutely no labour party initiative, there was a proposal from me in a persuasion debate after a election, which was finally unanimously adopted, and which then led to that announcement. But I am happy to see the chapters and items that show NOK 30 billion in four years, because our written enquiries to the department have confirmed that what we are saying is, of course, correct. I expect in the course of the debate an apology from the Labour Party's Inger Lise Husøy, or rather from Thorbjørn Jagland, that he will stop driving the Norwegian people behind the light, and he will also instruct his co-representatives in the Labour Party to stop driving the Norwegian people behind the light – unless I am forced to apologize by the fact that the Workers' Party comes with the chapters and posts that will be a sum of 30 billion in these four years.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e592	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e596	There is no doubt that the debate has taken place today, with quite a number of interesting points. One of the most interesting features was the early part of the debate, in which the two budgetary partners — the government parties, on the one hand, and the Workers' Party, on the other — expanded a form of emancipation about who had a policy to make the conditions worse for small businesses the most. It's an interesting ejaculation. Who won, you can discuss – I think they both had good points. The problem is that this budget, as the Prime Minister claims, protects small businesses, does not do it at all. The Prime Minister – where he must be now – was injured to provide an initial information that did not vote. I have to admit that I regret as a dog that I did not reveal this there and then – it could be nice to undress that claim, but I thought that if the Prime Minister was informed, he would correct it along the way, because it is always easy to get hurt in order to provide incorrect information. But instead of correcting and giving me a real answer, he actually made a virtue of this deterioration for small businesses. I don't think that's good, and it at least emphasizes that what the Prime Minister said to TV2 is simply not true, and I think that's gross. When he then ate his piece of cake with the small business sticks on, I must say that I think he should be a little careful with his soft cakes in the future. Otherwise, I had the impression that he was trying to create an idea that the NHO really thinks this is okay. That's not true. Following the budgetary agreement, the NHO sent a letter to the Financial Committee, which reads as follows: ‘The NHO must nevertheless note that the value creation perspective has had to give way to short-term and partly symbolic redistribution considerations. Both in relation to the tax reform and in relation to the country’s long-term challenges, the reconciliation between the government parties and the Workers’ Party implies a step in the wrong direction.’ This tells us that the NHO is not at all satisfied with the consensus that has been reached. That the Prime Minister thinks he's heard something else is probably just an expression of hearing what you want. For the sake of order, I have checked whether the NHO is by its letter, and I have, after the Prime Minister was up, confirmed that. I have also noticed Jaglands – I had almost said – newly won joy in being allowed to be inside the heat. Interestingly, Norway's largest party is showing such obvious joy in being allowed to take part in a majority decision in the United Kingdom. But it did cause him to get hurt in order to go quite hard against the parties that were government budget partners last year, then among other things. One of the points was to stabilise the economy, get to clean up all the grievance that was, and put the Norwegian economy on the right foot. And it turned out that the budget agreement we got last year was just putting the Norwegian economy back on track. One important element here was just zero in tax and tax increases, and I think that's a right policy. Remembering that I was not quite wrong, I was very close to thinking that this was a right policy last year, because I believe very strongly that I heard from the national meeting that I was very close by signaling that he could accept the demands we had on the tax side, and that the government agreed last year. Yeah, I guess Jagland was so excited about this that he thought he was already there, as we remember, so why he is now attacking this, is probably an open question. Otherwise, I noticed that Jagland was concerned about how many times the Workers' Party had gone off, and once again I thought that the Workers' Party had done the country a favor by going off last, in 1997. At that point I will immediately agree – it was of course an advantage that the Workers' Party went off, and I will actually send a greeting via the President: Keep up as you suggest! We have also had a debate about the school, and to that I would say that the main difference in our arrangement this year is that we are taking in the reality that is in Norwegian school. The most important part of the school debate may be the one we're not dealing with in this budget, and it's about recruiting teachers. That's where the crisis and problems in Norwegian school are first and foremost, and that's why it's so bad that the government's recruitment plan is as weak as it is. We're going to get back to that. But when we discuss what is right schooling, we must bear in mind that this is the most important challenge, and then other considerations in the school must come after this important thing. If we start by doing the less important things, then there's no school effort other than the seemingly, if it makes it impossible to clean up money to do something about the actual teacher recruitment. But we know that without having good, engaged teachers, and without more young people finding their way into the profession, we are going to have a crisis in this area very soon.This is the experience that all Norwegian parents have had in every year. For everyone knows that the only question that students get when they come home after the first day of school in the fall is, who did you get this year? That's what's important -- not all of these other things that we're talking about. It's important to do a part in these areas too, but we have to keep the perspective right. When the right is therefore adding a school billion into this budget, there is only one of several answers we have to give to the challenge that this summer's political debate has given us. And when we do that, I would have honestly hoped and believed that the Storting would now more closely approach the school question out of a genuine desire to get something done, instead of ending up in the good, old politician debate about what you did last year, in the past year and the year before there. The question is, what do we do now? Because the challenge is now clearer and clearer, and we have put our alternative on the table. In terms of content, we have to remember that it's not just about a final sum, it's about what you put in, and what you spend this money on. So when we spend a lot of money on teacher training, it's based on the recognition that it's the teacher that's important. When we spend money on getting more hours in the children’s and middle classes, it’s because it’s the content of teaching – having kids in education – that’s important. That is why we are giving priority to this. When the Labour Party and the majority say that there is a need to invest in the school leisure system and to borrow textbooks free of charge, it is probably good for family economic reasons and distribution reasons, or what it must be – it is certainly very fine in all of this – but the point is that this is not about school and school content and the content of education. That's why this billion Jagland is talking about, a knit he's now stretching so far that he has to hold on to both ends, because if he doesn't, he really gets a rap over his fingers. There aren't many dollars left in the Jagland school effort when you think that's the content of the education. At this point, I also want to say something to the Government. The government is talking about it not having promised anything in particular, and therefore there is no big point to do anything in particular. And that's okay. Formally, the Government is right in relation to its promises. But the question is, when people are genuinely concerned about the school -- the frustration is out there in school -- you can just sit and answer people that: No, we haven't promised this, so we don't intend to do anything about it? Isn't it important now to listen to the opinion that's out there? I would believe it, and therefore I had hoped and believed that the government had a somewhat more fitting attitude to this. So to the reasoning I heard a lot about from the government in the election campaign, where we got the impression that the school was almost a kind of welfare project that would probably get its way when you were done with a lot of other things. But that's not what this is about. The school is the very prerequisite for us to be able to keep up with a world of hard and fast change, with ever-changing assumptions. Without a good knowledge base, we're not going to make these changes, and then we're going to threaten the basis of the welfare society. Therefore, there is something fundamentally wrong with the approach angle that the Government has to deal with school issues — as if there's something that's going to happen sometime. But with the teacher crisis we're now entering, it can be too late. All of this is illustrated by the fact that the Minister of Education is not involved in this financial debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e625	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e628	When this crossroads is outside the influence of a budget agreement, one might understand the need to strike a little in different directions. And you probably shouldn't envy Jan Petersen. But when you listen to the Right Leader, and to other prominent Right-Speakers – and that’s what you should do – you quickly discover that the Right is much happier talking about tax relief than talking about distribution policy. So what's the total plot for the right? And in relation to who? Right wants to reduce taxes on the rich by reducing taxes on wealth and by reducing taxes on wealth. Right-wing wants to tighten up the health pay system and labour market measures. So the overall tax regime at the right is to divide the tax burden so that there is a tougher burden on general labour income and the situation in which people come up in the event of illness, in order to facilitate taxation for those who are the best. This is probably a tax scheme that will primarily affect those two-income families who have small children and who have, for example, children. are organised in trade unions. Only the cut-off on the trade union support is zero, since the Right is opposed to an increase in the electricity charge for a general household.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e635	I like to talk about issues of distribution – not least because the idea of distribution policy in the debate on the throne was what at that stage collapsed the Workers' Party and the government parties. It is, in fact, that there has been much less talk about distribution policy in this debate, at least with less rhetoric, than was the case in the persuasion debate. And I can understand that when I see what the government parties and the Workers' Party have done to get out of this. Let me first say that I think in many ways that it's important, and it can bring us together, that you're willing to use taxes in a distribution policy context, and that's not least about lifting at the bottom. I think it is very important that we develop the tax systems so that we have the goal of allowing people to live on their own income. That's the idea that the Right has had in these areas for all of these years. When we see how we've now designed our proposals this time, you can easily sum up by saying that everyone gets better. That means that everyone here will have a greater chance of living from their own income. When the Workers' Party and the Government's parties talk less about distribution, at least with less rhetoric than the last time, it has enough to do with seeing what kind of outcome it gives. I remember that everyone was so terribly concerned about all of these dividends, which made for the inequalities. What are you doing? You get to the AMS system, which is used by a lot of common Norwegians. I guess I'm also allowed to say it so that in particular they have a relatively small income that appreciates it very much. One of the reasons why it's terribly wrong to go the way the Workers' Party is going is to give a signal to all the people who have put some money aside and put them into the AMS, that it doesn't matter what they do. When we look at what they do in the case of families with children, where we find ourselves at a lower level – electricity tax, equation values and special deductions for age – the majority of the distribution policy is poor. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e644	The President will ask for the speaking time to be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e647	Jan Petersen rightly addressed the Prime Minister at the beginning of his speech on the lack of precision in NHO's vision. It is true that the NHO has sent letters to the Financial Committee. They have also expressed criticism and scepticism as part of the content of the budgetary agreement agreed with the Labour Party. But it's a lot more nuanced than what the representative Jan Petersen said. In an interview with Business Week News from 5 November, the NHO has clear reservations and some concerns. At the same time, they have also expressed positive recognition of the process as one, among others. has entered, where one has come into place in a clean and orderly manner. They're also relieved, they say, that there's no increased wealth tax, no longer tightened up in the division model, etc. They have also agreed to some of the limitations that were made in the sharing model. This applies to the identification rule in relation to liberal professions. I think it is part of a clarification when Jan Petersen charges himself a criticism by the Prime Minister for lack of precision. Now the Right has presented a budget option that is really as expected. There are many goodies there – SEK 4.6 billion in cuts in taxes and charges, more in roads, defence and education – but it has a cost page; DKK 1.6 billion in aid, DKK 1.4 billion in agriculture, DKK 1.1 billion in district aid, 20 pst. cut in brandy fees, 10 pst. cut in the taxes on beer and wine. I would like to ask the representative Petersen: does he think that, through this alternative draft budget, the right has given the centre parties the cooperation he intended to give?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e654	The answer to the last question is clearly yes. The budget we provided this year is, in its nature and arrangement, quite similar to what we put up to last year, with the one exception I mentioned in my main post, that this has a much stronger commitment to school and education. Otherwise, as Steensnæs also said, it is a budget line that is expected in many ways. As Steensnæs also remembers very well, we agreed with such starting points last year on a budget line. It should therefore not be in the way that we could also work forward this year if it had been the will of the government parties to do so. That's what's not known, because the government parties have given the Workers' Party the first right to questions of this kind. The fact that Steensnæs said that this was as expected, I think it was a useful precision, because when you heard the Prime Minister this morning, you got the impression that it was this budget that made it impossible to go to our side. But of course it doesn't rhyme when you look at the story from last year. So here it's probably been a never so small memory shift from the Prime Minister's side and gone, I guess. I'm not going to use other words on it. When it comes to NHO's attitudes, I think Steensnæs had a rather interesting consideration. Now I can't control his references, but as he made them, the NHO was relieved that it wasn't getting worse. I basically agree with that. You could keep believing that with these four parties together, this could get worse. In many ways NHO's reaction reminds me of Steensnæs' own press release as the conciliation was clear. The press release mainly focused on everything you have avoided exacerbating. It's an offensive attitude as you approach a new millennium.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e663	In earlier times when one was going to describe Right Economic Policy, it was said in a slightly pointed way that the Right Principle was the following: The answer is tax-free, what was the question? In the alternative budget presented by the Right, there are actually proposals for tax reductions in the order of good and well 7 billion kroner. This is going to be financed, and I'll follow a little bit of the line that Steensnæs was inside. This is financed by large cuts in the health insurance scheme, by cuts in labour market measures and not least by cuts in assistance. Then there's a question about which link you're going to have, because I assume it's also the case with the Right as with everyone else, that there must be certain links between the income and expenditure sides. My simple question – and it is meant to be a question that can be answered with a yes or no – is briefly as follows: Would it have been possible for the Right to propose DKK 7 billion in tax reductions without proposing at the same time restrictions on sick people, the unemployed and the poor in developing countries? It is possible to answer yes or no to the question of whether it would have been possible to propose DKK 7 billion in tax reductions without attacking these groups as strongly as the Right actually does.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e675	We've thought it would be right for reasons that I'll come back to, to cut in those areas, because it's important to have a balanced budget. Now, of course, if Jacobsen has other suggestions, I'm very interested in discussing them. That's what we wanted to do. But this year, unlike last year, Jacobsen has refused to enter into that kind of debate. Of course, we would have been interested in talking about other things in the name of the compromise, but we actually believe that it is right to go into the areas I have now mentioned. When he manages to perceive it so that you take 1.6 billion from the poor in the world, I have to say that he has an attitude towards u-help as if this is some kind of distribution of cheques. Jacobsen knows just as well as I do that u-help is gradually less and less important in a strategy to bring the poor countries forward. What is important is not least an international trade regime that allows these countries to come forward with their goods, and it is an economic policy that creates dynamism in this world of work. That's what's important, and that's why we can go in and take amounts of the magnitude we're talking about now. When it comes to the question of the sick pay scheme, I can give an answer. I assume that both the colleagues from the Christian People's Party and the Left in the Government, who have similar programme posts that we have, can also give Jakobsen an answer in this area. It is clear that in this respect, which is a very expensive arrangement for the country – we have the best system in the world – it is not entirely unreasonable here to look at excesses as well. But then there's tax relief. Is it so wrong now to tell the pensioners that they're going to get the same value of the special deduction as before? Is it so wrong now that we don't raise the rate of equation for people's homes, for all people no matter how much income they have, or that we say no to increase the electricity charge for those who in our cold country need to have it warm? I don't think it's that wrong, but I realize that Jacobsen thinks it's wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e688	It is rare for us to reveal Right's view of learning in the way that Jan Petersen now did when he was going to justify the one hour more on the child's step and on the middle step. Right will have the students inside for teaching, that's the argument, but it clearly means that the Right has not understood so much of how learning is going on. Learning and teaching are two different things, and it is important that the Right is trying to understand and get hold of. The right-hand side says they spend $1 billion more at school. It's a truth with modifications. The fact is, if we define school as primary and secondary, there is a place between 300 and 400 million more. It's to empower teachers, it's to increase hours, and then it's that pot of 100 million. kr to go to a quick – and mark the word quickly – follow-up to the action plan. That's the reason for that 100 million pot. kr. In education policy, the Right engages in double communication. They communicate a message in the media, and then they communicate another message in the budget. If they are to carry out what Inge Wohnung and others say they are going to do, that is, to give teachers an average wage increase of $50,000 – we are not going to negotiate on the Stortinget, we agree, but at least some people have to grant that money, and it is the Stortinget that grants them – it will be with such a 100-million wage bill. NOK, if we assume that it will be equivalent in the years ahead, take between 40 and 50 years to reach NOK 50000. So my question to the Right is: will the Right bring in a budget proposal so that it is possible to realize the salary growth of the teaching groups that the Right and especially the Vice-President communicate in the media? And does that mean that the 100 million that they add now is just a start where we can count on significantly higher amounts in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e698	A debate with SV about knowledge is always interesting, because it always starts with Kristin Halvorsen, who said in the previous election campaign that it's not so important to incubate knowledge, because you can know everything at a keypress. I think that Rikvam is an example that it's not that simple, because he should know the answer to what he's asking about, the 100 million, it's inside, and you get that at a keypress. But he doesn't have the ability to gain the completely necessary knowledge in this area. The necessary knowledge in this area is as follows: These 100 million have been allocated to actions that need to be adopted in the follow-up to the action plan. However, what is a main component, and which unfortunately does not include the plan, is precisely about pay issues. There I think I have been clear both through the election campaign and after the election campaign and said that because the negotiating system is such that the municipalities do not negotiate – although in many ways they are really the employer, it is the state that negotiates – we must first, before we can transfer money to the municipalities, have a paycheck in place that tells us how much money this is. And then I've said that when those things are in place, we have to transfer the necessary money to the municipalities, so that you can make the payments. This means that we need to get back to this issue in the revised national budget. Now the majority makes this harder than it had to be, because the majority cuts over 300 million. kr in the miscellaneous item, which includes, among other things, is set aside for salary increases. The majority are making it even more difficult now to do something about the very most central question we're facing, unfortunately. In this area, I think you can actually get an alliance across traditional ways of thinking, not least with SV, which, unlike the government parties, understands quite a lot about these kinds of issues.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e707	Fortunately, the school that the Right wants, along with the Advancement Party, is the only school in this house. But then to the teachers. The Norwegian Teachers' Association and the Teachers' Association have been able to turn up their expectations as a consequence, among other things. Right-wing enthusiastic negotiating engagement – so glowing that Helga Hjetland said in Holmgang on TV2 last week that the Stortinget now has to make an action plan for better pay so that politicians can regain respect. Helga Hjetland rejects today's Newspaper that the organisations themselves have promoted tariff requirements. She stresses that she has only referred to the fact that opinions of central politicians have contributed to creating high expectations among members. A supplement of NOK 50 000, which is the amount the Vice-Chairman of the Right most has mentioned – but also NOK 100 000 has drifted into the air – will result in the teacher group being the pay leader in the State tariff area. My question is, since Petersen seems to indicate a slightly different tone than his vice-leader, on every single occasion it is possible: How should the Right ensure that the expectations they have now created through the active role Right early has given itself in the wage settlement, are met in the coming wage settlement?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e716	Now that we're facing quite serious challenges in school, there's two approaches. Either the politicians now put their backs on trying to get as good a solution as possible, or you do like Grete Knudsen, and put as much effort into action as possible. Grete Knudsen explains exactly why the situation is as it is in Norwegian school, that's because politicians of Grete Knudsen's casting have been responsible for it. We have to face up to the fact that the core of the school challenge today is the lack of young people entering the teaching profession. It's very dramatic. And so when the Stortinget is responsible for Norwegian education, the Workers' Party comes and says that in this most central question, politicians must abdicate. No, I don't agree with that. When this is the central thing, it's my responsibility to try to contribute as far as I can to get these things in place. What we have to do is to make young people expect the teaching profession to become such that they dare to commit a lifelong act in this. Now we have come to the point of crisis that we, as politicians, have to do something about it, and we should be able to gather across the bounds to get it done. But when you listen to Grete Knudsen, it's obvious that it's not on the Labour Party's agenda. Of course, I have to answer for what the Right does, and we're going to add our backs to get a good result, so that others too are satisfied. I assume that other professional organisations also see the value of keeping the Norwegian knowledge base in place, and then exceptional measures need to be put in place in this area. I cannot take responsibility for the vote of neither the Labour Party nor the government parties – I would like to do so – but I can take responsibility for what I stand for, the mandate I have received, but you cannot be all fools' guardians.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e725	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e728	Redistributive policies are demanding. Sometimes the idea has crossed my mind that it would be nice to be in a committee that distributes money, rather than sitting in the financial committee responsible for taxes and money. But tax policy is multi-faceted, it also provides framework conditions for business and can also control to a certain extent the behaviour of the individual. However, some taxes have survived themselves in such a context. Special attention will be paid to the removal of specialty radio, television and cassette charges until next year. We have a small list of other strange taxes that should have gone the same way, taxes that were justified in the past, but which today only exist as illogical money collectors. Experience in these cases should encourage us to be cautious about the introduction of new special-purpose charges, regardless of the conditions that should be in place. New green taxes have emerged in this budget. I am not generally going to reject them, but it is important to seek, first and foremost, voluntary schemes where such schemes can have satisfactory effects. The new charge on pressure-impregnated wood is such an example. The neighbouring countries Sweden, Finland and Denmark have been committed to regulations in cooperation with the industry. The government tried a new energistic fee. The size now rejects this. One advice to the Government is to think well about before coming back with a final, necessary instrument in this context. That the government has to tread carefully when introducing green taxes, we also see in the introduction of a base tax on fuel oil. The majority have found it necessary to exempt the woodworking industry. A new charge here could lead to another environmental measure, the production of paper products based on return paper, becoming a loser, and that is probably not good environmental policy. However, the fact that charges can be a proper tool is seen in drinking packaging. Green charges have gone to zero, with the return targets achieved on the traditional reusable and pant bottles. An example in another direction is the introduction of a box. Here, a tax exemption is granted in relation to the amount returned, with the effect that the box threatens the existence of several district breweries. Of course, the box has come to stay. But there will be something ripping wrong if a disposable packaging is not to pay for its own litter. Therefore, an adjustment to this levy is proposed by the majority. Then we get to hope that it could be a contribution to the survival of some of the district breweries as well as beer breweries. We heard yesterday that the Northern Brewery has already been lost, but that Arendal's Brewery is at least so far given the opportunity to live on. The car charges are high in Norway for several reasons, but it is important that they do not prevent a safe and environmentally damaging car park. The charging system we adopted with effect from 1996, following proposals from the Workers' Party, has worked well so far. It does not cost safety equipment, but gives advantage to a standard car of engine size and weight. There are now tax increases on the heavier and also the specially paid cars, such as combi cars and minibuses. At the same time, we ensure that significant tax incentives do not hit the new, family-friendly, multi-use cars. For five years we have had a predictable and well-functioning charging system for the cars that people most buy. But we are now seeing a new automotive and motor technology grow. Other countries are therefore developing new charging systems to guide the car in a less environmentally damaging direction. In Germany, for example, we have annual charges that discriminate against the most polluting and traffic-hazardous cars, while the concept of ‘three miles on the litre-car’ is now in the process of being produced. New car charging systems should not be snorted together here in Stortinget. Experience in 1996 shows that when good preparatory work is done in the department, with subsequent consultations with stakeholder organisations both for users and sellers before final presentation to the Stortinget, the result can be good and forward-looking. Many suggest that new designs and new engine technologies can now make a significant leap towards a safer and more environmentally acceptable car type. I therefore believe that the time should now come for a project entitled ‘Green car charges in 2000’. We in the Workers' Party must be constructive co-players. The aim should be the preference of new, safer structures and the reduction of engine-side pollution. So to the Workers' Party's preliminary proposals on the challenges we face in terms of increasing alcohol consumption. The alcohol damage represents our greatest social and health problem. Crime production and trafficking on a large scale, and the failure of people in this context, show that our policies relating to availability and price as the main instrument need to be reviewed and adjusted to the extent necessary. Increased border trade is also a clear warning that our policies should be adapted to our closest neighbour, Sweden. I would like to mention some of the elements of the Workers' Party's arrangement. One element is adjustments in fees and availability. But equally important will be a review and innovation related to awareness-raising work. Furthermore, it will be necessary to strengthen the possibilities of the customs authorities to prevent smuggling. The availability of the Vinmonopoly and its ability to provide services must and must be substantially improved. Beers with an alcohol content lower than that of pils shall be reduced to the Swedish level of fees, i.e.: no or low fee. Shops and food establishments should be required to have these alcohol-dehydrating beer varieties in their offer. The spirits levy is reduced to halve the tax differential between Sweden and then to be further reduced over time. It is a demanding project The Workers' Party is now working with the Government on up to the revised national budget. The biggest challenge is not to get a majority here in Stortinget, but to get an impact on a new behavior among the majority of people. So a couple of quick comments attached to decisions in the revised national budget this year. First, for the refund of the diesel tax on buses, the Stortinget made a crystal clear decision. I refer to the vote on the revised national budget on page 107, first column, where the reasons, practice and decisions have been reproduced. There are now enquiries that indicate that the Government does not comply with the Storting decision. I assume that it's based on a lack of communication, and not on the government's skepticism about the Storting's decision and guidelines. The other applies to the exemption from the investment tax on hydropower plants. With the Storting’s clarification that maintenance investments are also covered by the exemption, I assume that the exemption provided for will take effect from 1 January 2000. Then I would like to address the proposal on the desks of the representatives. That is proposal No. 22, on behalf of the majority of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left and the Representative of Bastesen. I think those who look at the proposal will understand little or nothing. Therefore, I would like to give a little reason why it is there: it is the case that Section 4, which refers to, had a first paragraph that went on to provide a basis for the removal of the environmental diesel tax for scheduled buses. It was the special environmental diesel that used to be sold, but that is now being replaced with an ordinary, better diesel type. For this reason, and with the background of the majority vote, the first paragraph is removed here, and the last paragraph that applies to something completely different remains standing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e756	The representative Dalheim has taken up the proposals he has referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e763	On the Swedish side of the border with Norway, shopping centres are growing up as toad hats. The Swedish authorities have decided to launch a massive establishment of system companies, the Swedish response to the wine monopoly, along the Norwegian border. And why do they do that? Well, to sell alcohol to the North. And they do so in confidence that the majority of Norwegians are obviously unable to reduce the fees. This leads to an increasing number of Norwegian jobs being closed down. The smuggling of alcohol and tobacco is increasing, and organized crime is flourishing. The Progress Party has taken this into account and proposes in this year’s State budget that taxes on alcohol and tobacco should be reduced to the Swedish level. What, then, has the Norwegian Labour Party done — or at best tried to do — to solve the problem? Well, they've been talking, talking and talking. And then they've written notes on the problem. They've written pages up and down about how big the problem is. But have they been able to do anything about the problem? No! No! That's to say, something they've done. They have reduced a sample, the so-called Dalheim Committee, and there they have kept talking. And for everything I know, they're still talking there, because obviously they can't do it, they're not capable of it. Not one proposal to harmonise taxes between Sweden and Norway is promoted in the State budget for 2000. While members of the Dalheim Committee speak, jobs are moved from Norwegian side of the border across to Swedish side. Smuggling and home burning are increasing. Organized crime is increasing. Where is this going to end? My question to the representative Dalheim is: Has the Workers' Party intended to do something about the trade leaks and smuggling? If the answer is yes, is my next question when? In six months, in one year, in ten years? Or should the Workers' Party continue to talk, as they have done so far?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e774	If the representative Kenneth Svendsen had asked me questions about cars, I think we could have a little more constructive dialogue than what he is putting up to now. I will not repeat myself unnecessarily, but of course the Labour Party takes the border trade seriously. First of all, we take seriously the problems we see related to the fact that we have not managed to reduce alcohol consumption in Norway, but that, on the contrary, alcohol consumption is increasing. We cannot unilaterally put in place the kind of measures that the party in general stands for, i.e. reduced taxes and taxes, in this context, large reductions far beyond the charges they bear in the current year. People in this room – and probably also outside this room – should be aware that the level of fees we have today is at the back of their vote last year. But we have, as I referred to in that post that I just held, a constructive and good arrangement for what we can do in relation to the border trade. The challenges we face in this context are most serious. Here it's not just to click on reduced prices, here's some general approach we have to do, natural enough. We also work closely with Swedish political parties in order to close the gap between the fees, which I will be the first to admit is too high. The measures we are taking there will be seen by Kenneth Svendsen and the Progress Party, and probably by many others, when the revised national budget is presented, not in five years or ten years to which Kenneth Svendsen referred, but in six months.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e783	In the election campaign, Erik Dalheim and the Workers' Party were very concerned about the increased border trade. It was concluded that border trade now amounts to over DKK 8 billion, and that 9 000 jobs, which could have been Norwegian, have ended up in Sweden, linked among others. trade in goods. Erik Dalheim appeared harsh and bramish and stated that half of the brandy currently consumed in Norway is not traded through the Vinmonopolet. There's a lot of smuggling, and there's a lot of criminal acts in the extension of it. Then Erik Dalheim went out into the World Gang on July 15th: Cut the liquor charge. To NTB, the Norwegian Telegram Bureau, he went out and said, the Labour Party wants cheaper liquor and smoke. In a debate with Dalheim, I wondered why it was not possible to vote in favour of Mr Right's proposal in relation to the consideration of the revised national budget of 10 p.m. Cut, cut, No, it is not appropriate in the context of the treatment of the revised national budget, the type of operation that must be taken into account in the State budget, said Dalheim. I added that when the Workers' Party is going to do something about this after the election, I take the same position as in X-files: I don't think so until I see it. It was presented as a little bit less liberal. This is what we're going to do,' said the Workers' Party. So the state budget came, and what is there? Yes, an increased fee on smoking tobacco and an increased fee on diesel. What was supposed to be cut in the fees was price-adjusted taxes on wine, spirits, cigarettes and petrol. That was the result of the Labour Party election vow. But now they say that something will be done about it in the context of the revised national budget. There is no question of doing anything about it in connection with the state budget, because you do not have the full overview! Is it now reasonable to do something about it in the context of the revision? And is it done in the context of revision? Einar Steensnæs went out yesterday and said that their tax and price policy in the case of alcohol is on track. This indicates that the Christian People's Party has not perceived it so that you should do some cuts this spring. Does Dalheim have a good conscience toward the voters, or does he feel that he has gone a little too far with his promises, without having received cover for it internally?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e797	The Labour Party can never become a fee-reduction competitor to the Advance Party, of course, but not to the Right either. The problems related to border trade, to which Børge Brende also refers, are complex. As I referred to in my first post, we cannot ignore the fact that alcohol can be harmful and lead to health problems. It is not just a question of reducing taxes we face. A comprehensive approach is needed to create new attitudes to not an increase, but a reduction in alcohol consumption, so that reduced taxes can reduce the ‘criminal’ consumption of alcohol and buy more alcohol at the wine monopoly. All of these things we're taking seriously, but after going into these challenges, we're aware that it takes time to get a complete set-up in place. It is not possible to take such cuts in the turns that the Right here invites. Of course, it has something to do with an overall budget package, and that there is money going out and out of the register, but it has nothing to do with the Workers' Party not taking this seriously. I have expressed, not least in the election campaign, that this is a relationship that we cannot live with. I think the best starting point for being a believer is that you work thoroughly and properly and through it comes with a real proposal in this difficult political and social policy area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e806	Not much was heard from the Workers' Party and Erik Dalheim in the election campaign that more time was needed to address difficult issues when it came to tax cuts. Then it was silent and running. As I mentioned, it appeared from the VG that the Arbeiderpartiet Erik Dalheim – that was also a picture of him – encouraged to halve the gap between Norway and Sweden when it came to the alcohol charge. He was also aware that there was too much difference between Norway and Sweden in terms of the price of cigarettes and that this led to a strong increase in border trade. I notice that Dalheim now stresses that there are also health problems related to alcohol. Of course, we fully agree with that. But wasn't Dalheim aware of that when he went out with these plays in the campaign? It is simply a question of getting some illegal alcohol into legal forms. It is also about stopping an increasing border trade. Had it not been clearer whether the Labour Party in the election campaign had made it clear that these changes had not been planned to be implemented during the current year's budgetary negotiations for the next financial year? If I understand Dalheim right now, the Workers' Party will come back to this in the context of the review of the revised national budget. Do you then aim to fulfill Dalheim's promises in the election campaign? I would like an answer to that question. Now are we going to get a cut in the alcohol charge and halve the gap between Sweden and Norway? Is it a promise compared to the revised one? In that case, how do we perceive Steensnæs, who said on TV 2 yesterday that the government has not addressed anything that would mean that the tax and price policy on alcohol should be changed. Is there any misunderstanding between the Workers' Party and the Centre here?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e816	One should be careful to describe himself, because then a person may be at risk of falling into the trap that one does not see his own faults. But I think I'm quite right to say that I've never stood for any tut and driving policy. I don't do that in this context either. I'm really taking the problems we're facing here, seriously, but it turns out these are relatively complex issues. It's okay that Børge Burnde runs a little bit. It probably also makes itself for people outside the house who look at this: Down with the liquor prices and cheaper tobacco! But we can't ignore the fact that we unfortunately drink more than we did before. We have to see the whole thing here, so that we get down on our heels even with a reduced fee on spirits. And I'm saying we're going to halve the alcohol charge in relation to Sweden. People don't have to doubt it. But we have to act in such a way that we can at the same time give people an attitude that leads to not taking more alcohol, but less. If Børge Brende had taken the time to read what was directly from me in newspapers and also in election campaign contexts, I think Børge Brende could save himself some of the slightly fresh plays he has come with in relation to me. What has been in the newspapers, of course, I stand for, and that is also the basis for the work we are now going to do with the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e827	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e830	The treatment of the State budget for 2000 has been completely different and out of date from last year’s bid set. One year ago, there was a government crisis in the air because the Labour Party’s national meeting opened up budgetary cooperation with the Right. Last year’s budget crisis was resolved by the fact that five parties were willing to take responsibility and bring the Stortinget – and the country – out of a firm budgetary situation. This autumn, the Workers' Party has shown its willingness to enter into real negotiations with the Centre Parties on next year's budget. The result has been a budgetary agreement with which both the Labour Party and the Centre can be satisfied. The financial framework for the budgetary process was also quite different a year ago. Turbulence in parts of the world economy, a record low oil price and the aftermath of a costly wage settlement led last year to pressure on the Norwegian krona and a strong interest rate increase. Today, one can conclude that the Norwegian economy is the longest in history and that the confidence in the Norwegian economy has been regained. Norway's Bank has lowered the signal rate by 2.5 pst, the crown is strong, Oslo Børs has strengthened by over 30 pst. this year and employment remains high. Over a demanding year, the central government has shown that it is manageable. Of course, the honour of the successful stabilisation of the Norwegian economy must be shared with several – mainly those opposition parties who have been willing to take part in economic development on different crossroads, but also the social partners, who have contributed to moderate wage developments. Through the examination of the budget for the current year, the revised national budget and the budget for the year 2000, the Government has demonstrated that the independence line, i.e. Interchangeal cooperation with the opposition parties in Stortinget is a good strategy that serves the interests of the country. The centre option has undoubtedly strengthened over the turbulent year that has gone on since the last financial debate. The State budget for the year 2000 which will be adopted tonight by the votes of the central parties, the Labour Party and Steinar Bastesen well respects the priorities and profile of the Government's draft State budget. The budget agreement with the Workers' Party means that the initial priorities are firm: the parental reform is continued, the new health reforms in the field of cancer care and psychiatry are on track, the district effort is continued, there is extra focus on the environment, an increase and alternative energy, international assistance is at a high level and research efforts are strengthened. There might be reason to notice that the whole 99.6 pst. the Government's budget has'survived' the budget negotiations in the Storting this autumn, while the balance and rigour have not been remedied. The opposition's assessments of the budgetary agreement between the Centre and the Workers' Party are somewhat shaky, to say the least. The right argues that the budgetary agreement implies that the central government pursues social democratic policies, while the Progress Party, on its side, states that through the budgetary agreement, the Labour Party has closely linked itself to the economic policy of the central government for the coming year. Both the Centre and the Workers' Party may take these duties from the opposition with great serenity. In her speech yesterday, the Vice-President of the Workers' Party, Hill-Marta Solberg, asked ‘what the centre parties really think about political alliances ahead’, and she felt that the budgetary agreement between the Centre and the Workers' Party ‘could form the basis for new alliances in Norwegian policy’. It is an important political signal that, on the basis of the budgetary agreement, the Workers' Party wishes to cooperate with the Centre on the major welfare tasks to be addressed in the coming years. It cannot be interpreted in any other way than that the Workers' Party now sees itself better served with the constructive willingness to cooperate the party has demonstrated in the autumn than with the responsibility we have seen clear trends in the past. Not least in view of the treatment of the balancing message, this is a positive signal. With regard to the views of the central parties on political cooperation and the building of alliances, this is set out in the Adult Declaration, which clearly states that the central government has its parliamentary basis in the central parties’ clusters, and that the centre ‘will seek cooperation on a case-by-case basis with all the other party groups in the Stortinget’. As already mentioned, the independent cooperation line chosen by the Centre in line with the Adultås Declaration has proved to be a good strategy. Experience so far does not justify leaving this line. In other words, we don't want to commit to other groups in Stortinget. The laid-off and artificial two-block stitching in Norwegian policy is, in my opinion, a thing of the past.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e856	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e859	The less a party is, the more important the party's youth organization, because there is hope for a better future. I'm not talking about the Center Party right now. I am talking about Young Left, because the leader of the Young Left has recently entered into broad civil government cooperation with the Right to ensure a more lasting basis for civil cooperation. The left's management keeps as far as I can see, the door opens this option. Now I heard what the representative Jacobsen said more in principle in relation to the cooperative constellations. But in view of the budgetary cooperation he has commented on, which is the basis of today's positive financial position, and in view of the fact that the Central Party has made a substantial contribution to a broad bourgeois coalition in the past with the Right in the Prime Minister's chair, can the Central Party update the reaction of the Central Party to these Left Plays? And if he answers what I think he will answer, isn't it hard in the long run to live with such crackling notions in the coalition, about what you want, and where you want?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e866	It is well accepted that the parties' youth organisations must be able to act more boldly than their mother parties, and we have also seen this in the case that Bjørn Tore Godal addresses. I have to express some surprise at what the leader of the Young Left has said on this question, where one can get the impression that one will not only be able to include the Right in a government cooperation, but can also imagine replacing the Center Party with the Right. I have actually registered in the two years that the central government has worked, that the cooperation has worked well between the three parties. It has also been made clear to the Left's leader in a spontaneous questioning session in Stortinget recently. He actually said it so strongly that the last year this government has been welded together better than ever. So I guess I'm going to say it so that we take these reactions very calmly. With regard to the Left's management, we must accept that the Left's management has similar views on cooperation issues to those they had before the 1997 elections. I do not think it is particularly eye-catching, but I do not have the impression that the Left's parliamentary leader in the Grand Duchy is displeased with the situation we have today. At least in Stortinget he has made it clear that this is a cooperation we can bet on further.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e875	Year after year, the Central Party has claimed both in its cases and in its speeches that they are fighting for the districts. The promises follow each other as pearls on a string, but in the practical policy of the Center Party, we often see something different. It also applies to promises to the transport sector. There's also a very loose promise, and it's going to be like that with them in retrospect. The big transport deal a few years ago about a huge billion-dollar road construction effort we've all heard about here, but the districts still haven't seen a single penny of that money. Now the Center Party has gone into partnership with the Workers' Party, and that's probably where they really belong. They have said that in the budget agreement they have put a great deal of effort into the road sector – it has been reversed. I would say it as strongly as that the appropriations for road investments are what I characterise as crumbs. Is not really good district policy – at least that’s my opinion – the prescription that the Progress Party has, namely increased investment in the operation and maintenance of roads, so that the roads are broken in winter and accessible at all times of the day? Is it not good district policy to increase the drastic development of our roads, so that fish and timber come out to the markets? If it is not good district policy to have a lower fuel tax, it is not good for the districts to get petrol at NOK 7 per cent. liter instead of 10 kr? Then maybe people can have the opportunity to live in the districts. Is this not really district policy?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e884	I ask that it not be seen as disrespectful when I say that on behalf of the Progress Party, the representative Nistad almost appears as a district policy expert, meaning what the districts need – I will come back to – but I initially allow myself to raise some doubts about this expertise. There is no need to hide the fact that the tight economic policy that led to the recession last year has hit many sectors. One cannot tighten up by 9 billion kroner in the economy, as was done in 1999, without this also affecting such a large and heavy sector as transport. But it is also part of the story that this budget has taken new steps to move forward both on the investment side and in the maintenance sector. I specifically mention the gravel road programme that has been put in place and that has been well received, not least in the districts. When Nistad says that there has not been a single penny to the districts, it is certainly a mild exaggeration – to say the least. Otherwise, it was adjusted from not ‘one penny’ to ‘smulver’. But I feel quite convinced that, when the economy is brought about by the tight economic policy, the transport sector will also gradually become more involved. I think it's such a strong pressure from so many teams now that I believe next year's budget will also be more marked by the fact that once you've consolidated the economy, there will also be economic room for greater investment in this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e893	There are many who have commented on the development of the Centre Party after the lot entered its government position. In this context, it is interesting to note that the merger and buying-in wave in business has increased in strength. The same is true of the privatisation wave, with the Central Party in the government offices. In this context, it's less interesting whether the Center Party likes or dislikes what's happening. The point is that the Center Party has government power. Even more interesting than what has happened is that the Central Party is not only on the move, but increasingly also argues that privatisation is both necessary and desirable. At a major energy conference that was held a short time ago, Jakobsen stated that the Government would be in favour of a partial privatization of Statoil, and Jacobsen further called for a cautious partial privatization of State Power. In today's Business day, 17 November, Jakobsen explains this reorientation by: ‘When companies engage abroad and engage in risky projects, it might be a good idea if partial privatisation contributed to a stronger, ongoing follow-up of owners...’ I agree with that. And these are signals that the Right finds very interesting. My question to Jacobsen is about this attitude that he expresses, both in terms of a cautious partial privatization of State power, and not least the political rationale that is reflected in Today's Business, is anchored in the Centre Party, or whether the message served has been adapted primarily to the audience.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e907	There is no reason to hide the fact that there is a fusion wave throughout the international economic system in the wake of the globalization we are seeing in so many areas, but the representative Jan Tore Sanner is also aware that there is a majority in the Storting that wants to contribute to this rather than slow down, and that in some of the cases that have recently taken place, it is actually the large number that has gone a long way even in situations where the Government has tried to slow down. Jan Tore Sanner knows very well what this is all about. Then Jan Tore Sanner repeats some unpresise claims that he has previously served in Storting's spontaneous questioning time. As for my statements at the energy conference he mentioned in his reply: I have not forewarned that Statoil will be partially privatized. I've assumed that there's obviously a majority in the Storing that wants it, and I've stated that I won't be surprised if it also comes in the proposal of the Government. With regard to the issue of State power, the situation is that the issue was raised in this conference. I then used the situation with regard to Telenor and the internationalisation of Telenor, as an example of the fact that here it is a matter of whether the State should take the whole risk when large state enterprises get involved, engage internationally, or accept as a reasonable solution that one has a certain private element, so that the management of these companies can continuously and almost daily get an important corrective action from the market. It was in this context that Statkraft was also mentioned at the conference in question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e918	Is it up to the opposition to save the local economy? When the Center Party was in opposition, they had a strong and active commitment to the local economy that produced results. Now the Central Party is in government, and the municipalities have the biggest deficit in ten years. The Norwegian economy is state-of-the-art, said Jakobsen in his contribution. Yes, it is, but the local economy is sickly reported. And what are we going to do with that? In addition, Jakobsen says that the Government has been granted 99.6 pst. of its budget in conciliation, and the 0,4 pst. which has been changed, as far as I understand, has mainly gone into municipal economy. Does that mean that the Center Party no longer has the same involvement for this important area? For example, education is absolutely indispensable in the future. The school package that the Government has put in is $255 million. kr. It has apparently also been somewhat reduced in the conciliation. But to compare and see how much money this is: the Municipal Committee has received a letter from the Minister of Church, Education and Research showing that the municipal sector lacks 270 million. only in 1999 to compensate for the lack of price adjustment in education for refugees and asylum seekers. It's more than the school package that's been put in from the center government. Is it so that the Central Party believes that the action space that now exists in Norwegian policy is at such a micro level that these are the figures we are talking about, when we are talking about the need in the public sector to strengthen the local economy? Is it not true that the line of independence that the Central Party is now again calling for is a deadline for those who want to strengthen the local economy?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e930	The size is dealt with in our municipal economic proposition – a proposition that must be said to have been supported mainly in Stortinget. The budget presented by the Government to the Municipality of Norway meant that one went about. One and a half billion kroner in addition to what was in the municipal economic proposition. Then, during the round of negotiations you have had with the Workers' Party, it has been possible to realise a further NOK 1 billion to the local government sector in the event of redisposals in the budget. I would like to refer to a reply round we had in connection with the debate on the throne, where the question was raised by the Workers' Party whether it was not beneficial to strengthen the local economy in addition to what the Government had proposed, a reference to what the Workers' Party had proposed. I allowed myself to say that to the extent that it was possible to increase the municipal framework within a sound budget and sound framework, it was one of the proposals of the Workers' Party that the Central Party would be easier to accept. It turned out that it was possible to find solutions within the budget through redistributions that provided the basis for giving Kommune-Norway some room for action. So I'm more than willing to admit that the situation in Kommune-Norway is not solved by this. I can assure you that the Central Party will continue to work to ensure that we have a good municipal economy, because we are of the opinion that Kommune-Norway is the defence line for public goods. No single issue in terms of distribution policy is likely to be more important than being able to provide municipalities with an economic space allowing them to provide the services that people expect.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e939	When, from the Labour Party, we drill a little bit into the question of who the Government wants to cooperate with, even beyond the consensus that we are pleased with is now reached between the Centre and the Workers' Party, it is because it will affect the development of our entire welfare society in the future. Are we going to put more effort into Community solutions that will protect everyone, no matter how rich one is and where one lives in the country, or should a smaller effort be made on Community solutions? In that case, as Jakobsen has also been involved, the municipal economy is central. As has been said in the past: the municipalities now experience the worst year in over ten years. Then it goes without saying that if we don't do anything about that situation, it will mean a worse and more expensive service provision for people. I am very pleased with what Jacobsen now said, because I believe that the billion proposed by the Workers' Party and to which the government parties have now joined in this conciliation is absolutely necessary for the next year, not least in order to meet the need for more free means and also to meet the need for a necessary further commitment in the school sector. I think, as James himself suggested, that we have to go even further on that path. I would encourage, and ask Jakobsen if the Centre Party is also interested in, to look more at the financial framework conditions and to review the entire income system to see if it is accurate enough. Is it so that the operations we've now done through several different processes in this house have made it possible that we don't get the distribution that we've ideally wanted and that's been the goal? I would also like to ask whether Jakobsen realises that it is with the Workers' Party that it is possible to further strengthen the municipal sector, thereby providing better services for our citizens and even better distribution policies.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e950	To make sure that I answer the last question, I want to take it first. If we look at this budgetary position and the alternatives that the various parties have promoted in the vote, the answer to that question has to be yes. Because we have to assume that when the Right Party and the Advance Party lay such a tight framework for Kommune-Norway, it is an expression of their actual policy, which they will try to defend. In the centre parties and the Workers' Party – and the Socialist Left Party, for all things – there is a completely different basis for thinking. With regard to this with the distribution profile in Kommune-Norway, I think that the Workers' Party should go a little bit more quietly in the doors, because once we have had the major reforms in the municipal sector, I think of the introduction of the Rattsø reform, it has not been the Workers' Party that has stood on the scandal and defended a distribution policy that takes care not least of the disadvantaged and the smaller municipalities' situation. I refer to the debates we had on the position of the Rattsø Committee when it was being discussed here in Stortinget. Otherwise, I have to say that on the issue of welfare schemes and this about ringing the community, Brustad knows just as well as others here in the Chamber that here the Centre Party has stood on the barricades in relation to such schemes. It is the Central Government and the Central Party Council that have submitted the Cohesion Communication, which also aims at ringing the Community sector. I am very pleased that, in the verbal part of the budgetary agreement, it has almost been put forward in the perspective of the Workers' Party's side, that here there is a willingness to help find good solutions to the increased inequalities documented in the Magnhild Meltvej Kleppa Cohesion Communication, and that the proposals proposed in this connection can be supported by the Workers' Party. We in the Centre Party are very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e959	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e962	In SV we are pleased that the Workers' Party and the Centre have entered into a budgetary settlement. It initially parks the Right Party and the Advance Party on the political side where they belong, outside direct influence on the use of crowns and ear for the next year in the Norwegian economy. But more important to us is that it changes the political agenda in such a way that SV now has a more offensive starting point to challenge policy in areas where we know that many both in the Labour Party and the Centre agree with us. Let's say this: the discussion about the local economy, how to solve welfare problems in the many municipalities, is now much more central in this debate in the final analysis. Then much of the discussion went on on the Right's claim that no one, no matter how rich they were, would get a single crown in tax sharpening. We're also happy that there's going to be less of a game in politics. We already see that this fall. The press bench seems a little boring that there are no games and specks, so that they can cover if Hagen is angry or gentle, or how tough Jan Petersen is. But it offers an opportunity that there may be greater political interest around politics and not just around the game. I think that at least the voters will have a great deal of profit from it. That said, the SV's view is that this agreement could not have been less extensive than what was the result. There aren't many heads that have moved. It is not possible to say that this is a strong change of economic policy and a clear centre-left alliance. We see it as a centre-center alliance, and that any left-wing triangle actually depends on SV's participation, challenge and policy impact. It's also based on the fact that there's a majority in this increment of cash support, and it's going to last that period. But on the SV side, we believe that when the reports come up about how it actually works, there is going to be a new discussion about the cash support as a system and about the device on it. In particular, I think it's hard for a lot of young children's parents who have gradually had a little bit bigger children and see the poverty that exists around in many classrooms and in school everyday life, to experience that you spend $3 billion on cash support, while as soon as you get to the slightly larger children, the school and the knowledge society, it's not possible to turn out a single penny. It's in case of a challenge that's going to be left to the next big shot. What SV seems to be the most important of the challenges is that one has to get away from – what to say – the summary debate that this financial debate has been so far, where it seems that what lies most at the heart of the Government, is, with two strings, block dependency and governance, not what ambitions one has for the political development of Norway into a new century, based on the enormous possibilities Norway has as one of the richest countries in the world. The State budget proposes to allocate 79 billion kroner to the oil fund next year. We get a profit of 79 billion dollars, and even bigger because the oil price is coming up. Then you don't have to wander around the center. At that time, it is simply necessary to set some policy objectives which are such that their results can be tested in 10 years, in 20 years’ time — to see if Norway has actually come any further. SV's first challenge to the new majority constellation of the Centre and the Workers' Party is to take knowledge and competence seriously. We must simply replace oil dependence in the Norwegian economy with a forward-looking, green knowledge economy. In SV, we understand the disappointment that exists in classrooms around the country, among parents, children and teachers, that the interest in and focus on school has not given any greater prominence in bets. From the SV side, we follow up on what we promised. We believe that there is a need for a power cap for the school. We want to start with high school. And $2.5 billion extra each year over four years to high school is not an offer. That's just not a penny more than what's needed! It's a little bit too small. The most responsible school budget submitted by any party is the SV proposal. We want a modern knowledge school. It's a school that needs to work in new ways — i.e. I guess they're not really that new. I've heard about teachers who were educated more than 30 and 40 years ago, who learned how to work as the working life now works, with collaboration, with project work, with connecting knowledge to the reality that children know, because that's when you learn, and in such a way that you can use the knowledge, because that's when it's sitting. There is something quite different than the right-wing policy that is being preached to the school, which places great emphasis on syllabus, tests and grades. Our opinion is that the right-hand school vision is a threat to competitiveness. The children simply don't learn what they need most for the future. I totally disagree with Mr. Jagland when he says in his post that the SV's school proposal helps to make it 'completely hopeless' in terms of government finances. That is an unreasonable criticism. In its alternative state budget, SV spends NOK 2 billion more than the bulk of the population does. All other proposals have been covered by redistribution within the budgetary framework. The 2 billion we use primarily in the school area for investing in what we're going to live on in the future, and it's more responsible than the Workers' Party's proposal. It's just not an expenditure item, it's an investment item. It is only on political will that we should be able to get the upgrade in school that the future needs. In fact, SV has once before being able to get the attention of the majority of people to a sector. In the 1987 election campaign, we promised an older billion. Then we were shelled out land and beach around for surrender. One of the older billions eventually amounted to 30 billion in older people — a necessary upgrading of care for the elderly in Norway. Now SV has to do the same job one more time, and this time it has to be to rust up the school. Our second challenge to the new majority is that we have to do something about the big difference that is a contrast for most of us every single day, namely the difference between what standard it is in the public sector and what standard it is in the private sector. From 1993 until now, the growth of private consumption has been higher than that of public consumption. That's why the malls and not the schools light up. Our challenge to the Labour Party and the Centre parties is that we must set a political goal so that we turn for the future. I remember what a fuss it became in 1993, when Kristin Klemet of the Right Programme Committee suggested that the public share of the economy should not be greater than half of the gross domestic product. It fell right-leading heavy for the chest to be challenged on this. There was a violent rush about where they were going to cut in order to achieve that goal. However, what has happened since 1993 is that the right has gained an impact on what Kristin Clemet proposed at the time, namely that the public economy – school, care and health – is now confiscating less than half of GDP, and that has been reduced. We can't do anything in the municipalities, with the health services or with the schools if we don't turn it around. The third challenge of SV is that when the difference message – which SV sees as a major political victory, because for many years in the opposition, we have presented a difference message that the Government has now followed up and presented to the Stortinget – is to be addressed, it is not necessary to take the starting point for a few small puzzles in order to reduce the differences. In that case, one has to set such an ambitious goal in one of the richest countries in the world that poverty in Prosperity Norway is to be eliminated. This is an affordable goal in Norway. We have money and opportunities to do so, and the poverty that people experience when it's a buying party for the others, as many of those who have the least to go with, are going to experience this Christmas trade, is hard to bear. It's going to be heavy to carry for those who don't know where to live next year, when those who have good advice can shoot rockets up so they fall down on them too. Combating poverty requires a completely different approach to housing policy than the majority have been willing to do. Housing is going to be a key to the prosperity society ahead, and the population has not really taken it seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e988	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e991	I want to grab hold of what Kristin Halvorsen started his post with. In addition, SV has spent a lot of time in this debate on the outcome of the cooperation between the Labour Party and the Centre Parties, which she calls a centre-centre budget. SV's review tone has been that the centre collaboration with us in the Workers' Party, rather than working with the Right and Advance Party, is good, but the result is not good enough. It is clear that if the Labour Party had a majority in this Chamber alone, or a majority with SV, we would probably have had a budget where many areas had received more – the municipalities, schools, hospitals, student housing, etc. – but it's not like that. We have a government that has for two years chosen to cooperate with the Progress Party and the Right, and there is a majority here in the Chamber who want to spend $3 billion each year on cash support. However, through redistribution, we have been given a strengthening of all these areas – the municipal economy, and hence the schools, the regional hospitals, the student housing, the kindergartens, etc. The working party has been given the impression that what Stortinget will grant today will be more than what the Government proposed. Not least, I have to mention that the Workers' Party has had an impact on the introduction of a free school book loan scheme in high school. That's something that the center parties really were opposed to, but we've had a In addition, we have had an impact on the redistribution of taxes, with tax incentives for the rich and with tax incentives for those with the lowest income. The working party and SV have the same basic objectives – strengthening Community goods and improving distribution. My question to SV is therefore: does SV think that this is a budget that will help us to achieve the objectives of better distribution and strengthening of Community goods, or does SV think that this is a budget that goes in the other direction?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1000	Yes, in SV we believe that most of the steps taken in the budget agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre's parties are in the right direction. We think it's a little bit puzzled that you take 15 million. DK from the modest school effort that the government parties initially had — it had been 15 million. NOK which should have been used in school. But our criticism is primarily at the level of ambition – it's quite puzzling. We give credit for creating a new majority, but the level of ambition has to rise sharply, and that's where SV's announcement comes from. Consider what opportunities we have, what opportunities Norway has to take seriously future challenges and what opportunities we have to create a knowledge-based green economy and business that can replace oil dependence for the future. But then you can't walk around with these puzzles, you have to have what you want everywhere else in the business world, that's a little entrepreneurial spirit. Then it has to be invested a little bit, and not so that you sit and rub on the little heads, while the real decisions that are really going to decide the future, as it is now, are taken in the markets. It's kind of strange to see, for example. how the entire banking structure policy is changed because a Swede and a finder found taking their private plane to Norway, thus jumping the whole bulk of the population and putting it back into action. It's a paradox. Let's look for the next big shot if the Workers' Party and SV can get a majority, then we should make a little bit of a way in the way. Our hope is that it can become a fixed majority, because now there are so many decisions taken by market forces. If voters are to have any opportunity to influence distribution policies and environmental policies, we need a firm majority to think about more than one budgetary settlement at a time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1009	The Socialist Left Party uses every opportunity to talk about school, and that's good. In the municipal election campaign, the representative of Halvorsen traveled around this country and proclaimed that school was a field of activity no. 1st@item: inlistbox But is it? As you know, municipalities are responsible for primary school, and county municipalities are responsible for secondary school, i.e. that these representatives shall give priority to different tasks. I am so lucky that I am one of them in this room who has experience from local government, and therefore know directly how the Socialist Left Party prioritises the municipal government. Let us take the example of the municipality of Fauske, where for eight years there has been a rapporteur from the Socialist Left Party. The Progress Party has repeatedly proposed that snow should be mined, that municipal land should be excavated, that municipal café operations should be put on the market, and that municipal floor cleaning should be put on the market – which has led to significant savings, which the Progress Party proposed should be used to improve the school. The Socialist Left Party voted against! For SV, it is clearly a higher priority task that these tasks are to be carried out by municipal employees than to provide better schooling for our children. The Fauske municipality, like many other municipalities, has significant shareholdings in various private companies, shares that can be sold to pay off debts, thereby releasing interest and deductions that can be used to improve the school. The party of progress proposed this, and the Socialist Left voted against it! It is clearly a higher priority task for SV to have municipal shareholdings than to provide children with a better school offer. These examples could have been taken from any Norwegian municipality. This also shows that it is possible to bet on the school in the municipalities, if a desire or ability to prioritise, which SV obviously does not do in Kommune-Norway. Will the representative Halvorsen ensure that the local government groups and county councils give priority to school in front of other tasks?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1024	I am grateful for the little insight into the budget debate in the municipality of Fauske. In fact, privatising e.g. is quite a bad school policy. cleanness. A lot of municipalities have done just that. What's happened? Schools have grown up again, not necessarily because private cleaners wash so much worse than public servants cleaners, but because the tendering system for which the Progress Party has arranged, very many places lead to two things being done: putting the work out for tender, and at the same time saying that those who work there should wash more square meters than before. We've had uprisings in many municipalities that have tried this, because the schools have grown up again. And it is not very good child policy and not very good employer policy towards employees – it is quite hopeless at all. What I'm asking is whether the Progress Party around Municipality-Norway is proposing what is in the Progress Party's programme for the school. Because it simply says that the children should be equipped with a check, i.e. That it is well the parents who are to be equipped with a check to little Ole, and then little Ole is to put on his collar and fly the city around to find a school where he can redeem the check. – a through-privatisation system in which each and every child is to enter the market to find the school they see offering the best knowledge. I don't know a single parent who wants their child to fly around the city with a check, but I know a lot of people who fight for their community school to get better, who set up if there's trouble there – a lot of schools can struggle with violent problems, etc. In the meantime — which provides support to the teachers who do the job every single day, but which appear to be the budgets they have is far too shaky. If people began to take a closer look at the Party's school policy, they would see it totally disconnected from the world of reality.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1035	The government has carried out important and heavy priorities in very important areas, such as: in education and research, health and care, district policy, families with children, etc. The representative Kristin Halvorsen has several times affected the cash support and the use of these funds. Does one believe that if these funds, if not used for cash support, are available for free use in other areas? No, of course this money had to be used for other measures for young children, for example. within the school leisure system, kindergartens, etc. The money is not available for free use. I am pleased that the Government of Bondevik is now presenting a balanced budget that helps to increase the stability of the Norwegian economy. The level of ambition must rise, says the representative Halvorsen. The Socialist Left Party has always had extra money to distribute for many different purposes. This also applies to the budget of the year. Is this additional use of money due to the fact that SV has not had financial responsibility here in Stortinget, by avoiding the formation of a majority even in times of minority government from the Workers' Party – despite the fact that the SV budget option for 2000 now states that the Socialist Left Party and the Workers' Party have many common objectives? Why has SV not used all these possibilities, for several years, to take co-responsibility, rather than always telling Stortinget that this and hints should have been done. They have refused to enter into budgetary responsibilities on many, many occasions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1047	Odd Holten's reality description here is not exactly correct. I even remember that a few years ago, Odd Holten and I in the Financial Committee negotiated with the Workers' Party and actually agreed on a majority budget – once, correctly. But our chance was because the center parties did not cooperate in the same way the time that now. There is also a completely incorrect description of SV's position in Stortinget in e.g. Hanna Kvanmo's time that not the Workers' Party and SV cooperated. But what Odd Holten is right about is that the SV's national meeting has set a higher level of ambition in terms of getting a political impact on our policies, and being very clear that we want greater power and influence over the policy that is actually being implemented. So our ambition level is increasing, and the voters decide what will result after the next big shot. The level of ambition of the Christian People's Party, on the other hand, is linked to only one matter, the cash support, and not to any other areas. It is quite obvious that if you had not spent NOK 3 billion each year for cash support, you could use that money in school. It is obvious that the money has been taken from Jon Lilletun, also called Little Jon by many these days. It's a matter of priority, and it's going to be completely wrong when the Christian People's Party describes the SV's alternative budgetary system as if we're spending money in cabins and 'guns'. On the contrary, we take from rifles, to say it like that -- we re-prioritize. We have a clear re-priority in our alternative state budget. It is not as far from what the Christian People's Party itself thought when they sat in opposition. Let me take a little quote from Kjell Magne Bondevik in Our Country on August 27th, 1997. He said that 'we and Ap have different priorities. We'll put a little less money in the petroleum fund, and spend a couple more than three billion more in the state budget." I draw attention to the fact that SV proposes NOK 2 billion more, i.e. a more moderate line than Bondeviks in 1997.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1058	The representative of Halvorsen began by expressing great satisfaction with the budgetary agreement entered into, and then she took a substantial part of the time to argue against, to conclude that the result has been good. Another major part of the article she used to go to a rather strong attack on the Higher School Policy. I think it's quite unreasonable and incomprehensible that she chooses to use the time in this budget debate to attack the party that, after all, is adding more, and badly needed, resources. SV supported in its alternative budget proposals for tax increases of DKK 5.2 billion in addition to the substantial tightening of government parties. In particular, SMEs are being attacked by small and medium-sized enterprises in Norway. Does SV believe that this type of policy is involved and contributes to securing Norwegian jobs and to developing Norwegian jobs in particular in the competitive sector? Can SV provide a single example that this type of ‘grov’ tax increase does not primarily affect the general man and woman in the Norwegian country? Give a few examples that this is not the case? Finally, what seems to SV that the Equation Tariff on dwellings should be re-increased by 10 pst.? Is the reasoning that homes today have become so expensive that they have to be even more expensive? Does not Kristin Halvorsen think that the entrance ticket to the housing market is already too high as it is today?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1069	To the right, we probably have to figure out that we sometimes collapse in the discussion about the content of the school – for the Right and the SV think differently when it comes to the way in which a best builds up a modern knowledge school. I find it strange that the business community has not interfered more with the discussion of the content and standard of the school. I think that SV's school policy would be much more uplifted in business than Right, because in business they see that the school and the kids have to learn to work the same way that you're going to work afterwards. We can't park a rough worn-out teacher and some wild, unruly kids in some worn-out school buildings on the outside of society for 20 years, and then expect them to be useful people who can contribute to value creation in the future, when they come out. It's an exciting debate, and I think it's also needed. I think it's an important and dynamic debate, to say it like that, that's needed to focus on school policy. What is meant to ensure Norwegian jobs — it is knowledge and competence. For this reason, it is an important part of industrial policy to pursue a proper school policy. Businesses should therefore be much more concerned that taxing dividends on shares is entirely sound, such as SV. suggests, and spend more money in school, redistribute that way. The main features of SV's tax policy are not the increase in taxes on ordinary men and women. We're going in for either tax bills – or zero, roughly – for revenues up to NOK 300000. So we're going to go a lot higher than the center and the working party add up. But what we're doing is redistributing from those who've really become rich, on capital incomes first and foremost, because they're taxed much lower than in many other countries. It's completely responsible to do, it's a forward-looking and entrepreneurial policy, precisely because it's people's business first and foremost dependent on the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1078	Kristin Halvorsen was fortunately concerned with the differences between people in his article. I think she and I can easily agree that the most important way to reduce the differences is to ensure the right to work for everyone and the fight against unemployment. I hope that SV believes that it is important also in my home country, Eastfold, because in a situation where the number of jobs again rages downwards in the traditional Eastfold industry, SV sticks the screws in the wheels. They want a basic fee for fuel oil in the wood processing industry. Fortunately, in the budget agreement, the Workers' Party had to avert it. It would have meant tens of millions of extra costs to the companies, expenses that their competitors do not have, which in turn would have meant the race of jobs in the county. And this charge is not even an environmental measure. By not introducing it, we get a different environmental benefit – the return paper will be used to produce new paper products, because it is the paper production based on return paper that has to be supplied with energy as opposed to the paper production based on the timber. This means that by not introducing that fee we will be used more of the laboriously sorted and collected return paper. And isn't it pretty important that it's used for new paper products instead of being thrown on dung? There is also another aspect of SV's draft budget that could be a risk of greater differences, namely that SV is increasing the expenditure increase by DKK 5 billion. Then there is a risk of interest rate increases, and we know that those that are hit hardest by interest rate increases are just the weakest, those who have bought homes and have high mortgages, and they are those with high student debt. And so is the oil fund. By putting less money on the oil fund, what about the differences in 10, 15, 20 years?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1087	I would like to encourage Ane Sofie Tömrös to look up in the SV's alternative state budget, where it says that we spend NOK 2 billion more than the bulk of the population, the working party and the center, not NOK 5 billion more. So it's a very responsible policy not to spend 79 billion dollars, but 77 billion dollars in profit, when you see what big tasks you have around, especially on the school side, that need money. Nor is there a bomb under cost developments in Norway. So that's the current year spent $10 billion more than the large majority decided. It's not on the millimeters or the decimals this is determined, it's crucial that you spend the money on what's most important. In the case of environmental taxes and fuel oil for the paper industry, it is correct that SV does not support the government parties and the Workers' Party in derogation in this area. This is because we believe that we should get to the transition that is necessary around the Norwegian industry in the direction of shifting to more environmentally friendly production, it is absolutely necessary to have consistent, predictable charging systems. There has been a lot of resistance and cry from industry in many places, but what we are looking at gradually is that a forward-looking charging policy in this area has led to a change in industry in many places – in front of industry in many other countries in terms of energy consumption, etc. And so it's a competitive advantage in the future, because especially in the energy field, the challenges for industry all over the world are going to be to use less and more environmentally friendly energy. This will enable us to turn what is a disadvantage to an advantage, but of course we are proposing conversion programmes for the industry that is initially affected. Our point is not to shut down, our point is to convert.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1094	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1097	Each state budget determines some steps further in the development of society. So, every budget is an opportunity, an opportunity to get a little closer to the society that we want – the society that we dream of. That's why it's important that we use and take care of the opportunities that state budgets provide, and that's what the Workers' Party has done in this budget. We have used the opportunity of working with the centre to create a slightly better society, to take some steps towards more justice, better well-being for those who need it, more forward-looking investment in education and the environment. Not everyone agrees that the possibilities have been used. This is the budget of the lost options, says Right. And the right is absolutely right. For the right, this is the budget of the lost options. What opportunities are lost for the Right in the State budget for the year 2000? Well, the right lost the opportunity to make sure that the low pay would still be without entitlement to sick pay when they were ill. The right lost the opportunity to ensure that the tax havens go to those who already have the most. The right lost opportunity to take from the very poorest in the world billions in transfers. The right lost the opportunity to make the school leisure system more expensive for families with children, and the right lost the opportunity to give ordinary workers less money when they are ill. So, the Right is absolutely right -- it was the budget of the lost options for the Right. But for most people, for those for whom this state budget means something, for those we can help with the decisions we make, it's not the budget of the lost opportunities, for them it means a little better everyday life, a little more fair society. So that's the same thing as for the Workers' Party. For us, it is not the budget of the lost opportunities. We used the possibilities we had to turn politics a little bit in the right direction, to make everyday life a little bit easier for families with children, for those who are struggling the hardest, for those who depend on the well-being we create. We got a pass that the low-paid people now get a right to sick pay again. We were given the impression that several thousand children are now going to have a place in the nursery. We got an average of more students getting student housing. We were told that several thousand unemployed people would get a little better help to get back into the labour market. We got an impact on a little more fairer tax system, which might make it more profitable for people to get into work. In particular, I am pleased with what we have done in terms of education. Education was one of the most important issues in the election campaign. There was no way in which the parties were knitting on the TV screen and telling about everything they were going to do on the education page. For the Right, almost believing that the autumn of 1999 and the state budget of 2000 was actually the first opportunity to do something on the educational side, as it was produced in the election campaign. Now the Workers' Party is following up the promises made on the education page: 20 million. kr. to colleges, 100 million. DKK to universities, 100 million. kr for free school books in secondary school. And when you know how much it spends on every harvest for many families who have their children in high school, it's an important step. And then we're going up by 100 million. kr to the school leisure scheme, and not least to a strengthened community economy, which gives municipalities better opportunities to bet on at primary and secondary schools, which Right in the election campaign was so concerned about. The voters who were concerned with education, I think can be glad that it was the Workers' Party, and not the Right, who was going to drag the center government in its direction. When I challenged Per-Kristian Foss on this yesterday, his answer was that the Right in his alternative state budget has much more to education than anyone else. But that wasn't the point. It is not difficult to find room for a lot of money for good things if you also accept the cuts that Right have in your proposal for a government budget. But it's completely unthinkable that they would get a majority of those cuts. Did you imagine bringing someone here in the house on a massive cut in aid to the poorest? The only people who would support it are the Progress Party. Was it thought that a central finance minister should be brought with him on massive cuts to agriculture? Did you think that you would bring with you people other than the Advance Party to cut off the funding for the school leisure program? At the point after point, you have cuts that would never get a majority. With such cuts, it is easy to find money. But the main question is, what do you do when you go into negotiations with others to agree, to choose what is most important? Are you choosing to bet on education? Do you put that thing in front of all the other things? No, you don't -- on the contrary. If we remember last fall and the front pages of the tabloids with tough Petersen, who said, if there's one penny in tax increases, there won't be a budget deal. – He could have said, of course, that if there was no strong commitment to education, there would be no budgetary settlement. But that's not what was said, there were other things that were most important when it came to the piece. And the Right succeeded – they got a deal. They got rid of the tax proposals that the central government had, but it was paid with less money for education, unless money for the municipal sector, and as a result we got a lower school for the children of this society. And that makes sense: if there is less revenue to the state, there must also be less money for all the good purposes that everyone is talking about in the election campaign. Then you ask what happens next year. Should the Centre cooperate with the Workers' Party again, or shall they cooperate with the Right and Advance Party? The Prime Minister cannot today give a clear answer to that question. I have difficulty understanding that inactivity. What were the central parties arguing about when they wanted to take over the governance of this country in front of the 1997 Grand Prix elections? Well, it was that they were going to have a new course. They should have a settlement with Difference Norway and get a better distribution. They would have more for the municipalities, they would have more for the environment, they would have more for help, and they would have more for the districts. I think there were a few of the voters who went to the ballot boxes at the rollcall election, who imagined that this would be carried out by means of the Right and Advance Party – on the contrary. In the 1995 presidential debate, the Central Party parliamentary leader, Johan J. Jakobsen, said: ‘If we look at the central political platform it has been about, it is at least my opinion that it is difficult to see it realised with more right-wing policy. There must be a smaller right-wing policy if it is to be realised.’ Of course it is. And isn't it just as good to say that once we've got rid of what was used by the centre parties as a pretext not to cooperate with the Workers' Party, namely the cash support, is a ready to get stable control of this country at the intersection where the centre of gravity lies, namely between the Centre Parties and the Workers' Party? This morning the Prime Minister said that some of the things that ‘rebellify me the most’ are the proposals and arguments to cut the aid to the poorest. Yes, that's an excellent position! But is it with the party proposing a reduction of DKK 2 billion, or with the party proposing to remove the entire aid, that we should settle with what is most upsetting the Prime Minister? Of course not. It's just with the Workers' Party he can get to it. Or in the case of more money for the municipalities, is it with the Right Party and the Advance Party to get it? Or in the case of a better distribution, which is not only dealt with in a disparity notification, but dealt with in the fiscal and distribution policies of the annual budgets – that is, where reality is created for the most people, that is where the decisions that the disparity notification wants to be decided – are to be made with the Right and the Advance Party, or are you going to do so with the Workers' Party? It must be possible to answer that question. In a chronicle in the newspaper four days before the election in 1997, Kjell Magne Bondevik said the following: ‘The Party of Foreign Ministers represents a threat to Norway’s strong traditions of international solidarity. Therefore, I will mark the distance from a human vision that contrasts with the strong indifference." Nevertheless, he wants to open up new compromises with that party, even when the obstacle to cash support is not present. Understand the one who can. One would think that the central government's goal was to get through as much of the policy that they wanted to implement before the elections, and it is my claim that the compromise we have made with the central government is actually closer to the promises that the centre made before the elections than the budget that the centre itself put forward. We had to push the center parties to give more to the municipalities. You really couldn't believe that before the election. We had to push the central government to get a fairer tax distribution, and we had to push them to get more on education. I would like to believe that there are at least some people in the central government who are happy that the compromise was as it was, and that the centre parties do not have a purely majority here in the Chamber – to say it like that! Most people are tired of the political ‘tactice’ between the parties; they are concerned about the practical implications of the results of the policy for them. I think people are more satisfied with the concrete results we have achieved in this budget, and I think that it will also continue to be the policy to be developed in the future in cooperation between the Workers' Party and the Centre. I challenge the Government to make it clear in the course of the debate that remains today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1134	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1137	The representative Geske spoke relatively much about education, and my question will go in that direction. I assume that we can agree that elementary school is perhaps the most important thing in education, because if we don't have a solid primary school, the superstructure really becomes quite meaningless. It is that schools in Norway spend very different amounts per year. student. Some municipalities use NOK 35000, others consume NOK 90000 per person. student. It's a big misalignment, and it's got to worry about the Workers' Party in relation to the University School, like, among other things. The representative, Mr Igland, is constantly talking about it. The reason why there are so many differences between municipalities, we have, among other things, It is heard that in individual municipalities there are many small schools. In other municipalities the schools are close, there are many of them and they are large. Now the report from the Municipal Economics Calculation Committee shows that it is not just that municipalities that have a lot of money because they have a greater spending need. In fact, it turns out that the free income for municipalities is very uneven even after the expenditure needs have been taken into account. So some municipalities have more money to spend on school than others. My question then is: is it worried about the Workers' Party? Is it possible for the Workers' Party to go further with regard to the implementation of the Rattsø Committee's setting? I became a little optimistic instead when I heard a reply from Sylvia Brustad, who actually suggested that the Workers' Party was willing to look at it. We have municipalities that have major problems, and the money that has been deposited is hardly going to school in those municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1152	The working party has no problem looking at the distribution between municipalities all the time. It's probably the Labour Party that's been at the forefront in dealing with those questions. But we don't know that there's going to be the level of the total transfer to the municipal sector that ultimately determines how good kindergartens we can get. The progress party even said in the election campaign in an interview with party leader Hagen on Nettavisen that we had too much resources in school. There was no shortage of resources in school. There was no lack of money. I think the everyday life that very many students and teachers experience is the very opposite of it. Then I don't think it's enough to redistribute the funds that exist, between the municipalities in a better way, I don't think we'll get a better school out of it. You have to give more to school in the years to come. I think it's a terrible poor starting point to start distributing more to the school with a scheme that involves billions of dollars in tax dollars. The Progress Party simply does not want to explain how to remove all property taxes, remove all property taxes, remove all inheritance taxes, remove the annual tax and the one-off tax on cars, reduce the fuel tax, remove the income tax to the state, significantly reduce taxes on alcohol and tobacco, remove holiday taxes, eliminate tax on the distribution of property – money that may add up to DKK 100 billion – and at the same time say that we need more to go to school. This is completely out of hand! All those with their own family budget realize that if you reduce income, you also have to reduce what you spend. And if you reduce government income by 100 billion dollars, it has to be less to primary school as well. Then I think the fight between the municipalities will be far tougher than the discussion we've had after the Rattsø Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1166	In this debate, there have been many from other parties who have tried to define whether the central government is almost Right or whether we are almost the Workers' Party, whether we are most pleased with this year's settlement, or last year's. Let me say once and for all: as a minority government, we must have the support of others in the Stortinget. But the center is the center! We're not Right, we're not Workers' Party, we're Center! The center wanted children's playgrounds and had therefore added 6,000 new children's playgrounds. The agreement with the Workers' Party gave room for 2000 – that's good. This is an important term for the center, even though the Workers' Party will not always listen to it. For the general arrangement of the Government, both cash support and nursery facilities are needed to create a real freedom of choice for parents. To get this done, the center had to get support from the right side to the cash support – we did not get it with the Workers' Party, and we had to get support from the left side to get good kindergarten development. It must feel good for the representative and the Workers' Party now finally after two years to be involved in the influence of the policy – and we heard that. We hope that this new working environment, the willingness to join in, is a new start. There's been a lot of talk about adult education for politicians in position. Now we might see that adult training has also had an effect on the left-hand side of the opposition. Center will look at content at any time. Does the new glow from the Workers' Party mean that we now want to see the largest opposition party – which is willing not to use ‘tactice’ – working together for results on a case-by-case basis?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1178	I think it's kind of funny to hear the central parties in this budget debate, for some representatives almost beams of joy over what the Workers' Party has forced the centre government to do. 2,000 extra babysitting places – yes, great! More money for the municipalities – excellent! More to education, great! The central government could of course have suggested this initially, and we would have released the entire round, but it was the Workers' Party that forced through a policy that I think many Centre representatives are very pleased with. My challenge is that we should continue this cooperation next year. Then we can get even more kindergartens, even more to education, and even more to the municipalities. It was said here that you have to cooperate with the Right to get the cash support, and then you have to cooperate with the Workers' Party on other things. But now we're saying that for this period we're going to accept to be part of the cash support. We would very much like to spend the $3 billion – $3,000. kr – on other things. We should have used them at school, and made primary school and high school better, we should have used them to make kindergartens cheaper, we should have used them to strengthen child protection, etc. But OK, there's a majority here, and we say we accept that. That is why it is no longer a problem. There is no need to cooperate with the Right on the 2001 state budget in order to get to all the things that the centre parties also want. Is it possible for the Centre to give a clear answer during this debate? Do you want to continue the course you are now in? Or you're going back to those games, for example. The party of progress, which, at least before the 1997 elections, was thought to be inconvenient to the next-trend thought, as the Prime Minister wrote, or as Jacobsen said for more right-wing policy, and that was not what you needed? The working party is ready to cooperate. We've shown this year in which direction we want to cooperate. I challenge the centre parties to at least ask their municipal politicians and their state leaders about who they want to work with. I think the answer is going to be very, very clear.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1189	Trond Giske did not say one word in his post about what the Workers' Party wants. And you can understand that with the budgetary agreement that is now on the table, with the deteriorations that this entails for too many families in Norway. But it's not credible when you don't say one word about what you want, and just drive and signify what other parties stand for. I also noticed that Trond Giske, as he said, was very pleased with the educational effort that is now in the budget. Yes, then he's quite satisfied with little, I must say. What's in the budget? The working party said no to a stepping-up plan, which the Right has presented in the case of continuing training for teachers, of 250 million. kr. The working party said no to teacher recruitment measures of 100 million. NOK – I actually thought the Workers' Party was concerned about it. You say no to increase the number of hours in primary school – that's what's needed. They say no to bet more on higher education and research in line with what the Right says, an increase of 250 million. kr. We also see that the Workers' Party in its family arrangement – which has then been agreed with the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left – makes a real downturn, cut, in the child's back of the next year of SEK 1.1 billion – it notices. We see that there is now a crisis in health care, we see it in relation to regional hospitals. The Labour Party rejects the proposal from the Right to strengthen the grant to regional hospitals by 90 million. kr. The Workers' Party rejects proposals which require a greater focus on the national cancer plan. The working party increases the electricity charge for everyone by 44 pst. to the next year, which also hits the families quite brutally. You also cut the special deduction for the elderly and pensioners, so that you get very bad out to next year. This did not say Trond Giske one word about, and that is what he should use his reply to comment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1200	The representative Børge Brende must have heard extremely poorly after I kept my post. On the contrary, I spoke quite a lot about what the Labour Party has done in the budget, what we wanted with this budget, and what the result was, among other things. more to education, more to the municipal sector, more to the nursery sector, more to student housing, etc. So the Børge Burnde framed a number of the proposals that the Right has for increased expenses, and asked why the Workers' Party was not involved in this. Yes, I'll explain to the representative, Brande. That's because all of the expenses proposed by the Right were completely inedible to the Workers' Party. For us, it was completely out of the question to give $390 million. the reduced income of those who are ill in this country, which is the consequence of a reduction in the sick pay scheme, as proposed by the Right. For us, it was completely out of the question to give $1,600 million. kr less to the poorest in the world, it was totally out of date for us to be involved in it. It was totally inappropriate for us to remove labour market measures for those who are unemployed or to reduce State aid to the school leisure system – as the Right writes in its alternative state budget that they want – or reduce district aid, housing subsidies, etc. The budget must be linked. And that was my point in the post, that when the Right negotiated with the Center, and was to force the Center in its direction, it wasn't education that was important, then it was tax haven that was important. At that time, there was no school leisure or kindergarten that was important, and other areas, defence and road development, were important. It's a paradox, I think, that for the Right – which is always concerned with taxpayers getting more of their money back – it's okay when it's the high pay that gets tax relief, but when the Workers' Party proposes that they get tax money back in the form of a lower nursery allowance or cheaper school leisure arrangements, then the Right is against. Is it true that when taxpayers get their money back in the form of tax credits for the high-wage, it's okay, because it's the high-wages who get it, but when there's the families of children who get more cash back in the form of getting a cheaper kindergarten and cheaper school leisure arrangements, and thus a easier everyday life, then the Right is against?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1218	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1221	When we discussed the budget last year, it was said that the government had no control over economic policy. It was also said that the government was unable to agree with the solutions it proposed, when the matter came to Stortinget. It was said that the government parties were dictated by the other parties. This year's budgetary procedure is enough to prove that it is a wrong description. It is good governance with the Norwegian economy. The interest rate has fallen, the unemployment rate is fortunately much lower than many predicted last year, and the Norwegian economy is being updated today by national and international experts looking at it. Despite major challenges in important areas, it is a fact that never before have so many had it so well in our country. The government parties have demonstrated through the budgetary procedures they have had that good solutions can be found both with the Labour Party and with the Right and the Advance Party. The Minister of Finance, when he presented the budget, said that the budget was well adapted to the economic situation. Now, as the financial debate approaches the end, we can conclude that we have had a financial debate that is well adapted to political realities. It has been natural that the debate has not been marked by a harsh and conflict-oriented tone. It reflects that we have a well-balanced budget, which gives support to the Government in the vast majority of areas when it comes to voting today. Thus, the changes that have been made and described before represent less than half a percent of the overall budget framework. The Workers' Party has contributed constructively to the negotiations on the budget and has, of course, been given a discharge in some areas. But that's the government's profile, a profile left is very pleased with, which is the main line of the budget adopted today. There is an increased environmental effort, there are important elements in the renewal of energy policy, we have an industrial policy that shows increased commitment to innovation, and research appropriations are escalating sharply. And we have, in cooperation with the Workers' Party, found solutions in the field of industrial policy, which can be of further importance. In this context, I refer to a line exchange earlier today between Steensnæs and Jagland, where Jagland actually confirms that it is set not to come back with attacks on the sharing model, the stock discount and the shipping tax framework, which has been a ritual race for the Workers' Party every year. This means that the industry, the maritime industries, now has a framework that indicates that this can be stable and well developed in the coming years as well. That's the most important contribution we can make to these actors. We have a significant commitment to care and health in the budget. The appropriations are stepped up in the billions class despite the fact that we are dealing with a tight budget. It shows good priorities at the Government, which Left sets 100 pst. rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, etc. These are the first steps in increasing the school effort in the budget we have to deal with today, and it is true that these measures are not least targeted at youth, where we have major challenges. The investment in this area in the budget must be stepped up in the coming years. Before the election, the left increased the bet in the schools, and we said we were willing to take a hold in municipalities and county municipalities, where this will is largely tested out this autumn. And we see in many municipalities that what seemed to be the role before the election is turned upside down. There are many municipalities where the Right must be pressed into increased appropriations for school, and where the Left is involved and has that role. It's in the practical everyday life you see how the will is to give priority to school, and there the left will show that will is there. Some have called for us to have a firm budgetary partner, for the Government to cooperate from year to year with the same partner. For us, it has been essential to contribute to solutions in the Storting, which preserve the greatest possible amount of the budget proposed by the Government. This year it was possible to obtain such a solution with the Workers' Party. We have, in sum, moved NOK 3 billion in relation to the government's arrangement. Last year, the agreement with the Right and Advance Party made changes to approx. 5 billion kroner. The representative Per-Kristian Foss said when the budget was presented, that this cheap government won't let go this year. On that basis, there is no reason to wonder about the solution that was adopted, but I would like to stress from the Left that this is budgetary cooperation, and only that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1238	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1241	The Left Party is characterized by many as small-right, because the Left Party wants to rule with the Right on a more right-wing and liberal basis than the Government has today. During the financial debate in 1997, the representative Kvassheim supported the cooperation with the Right and the Advance Party and said that the distribution profile had improved. Last year he admitted, quite rightly, that the distribution profile had become somewhat worse, and this year the representative Kvassheim is pleased with the budgetary agreement and thanks the Workers' Party for it. This shows that the central government is not a block-independent center option, but more a policy-dependent block. But someone in the government has seen the light and realized that it's only with the Workers' Party that they can get something done with Difference Norway and get to a more fair distribution. And they've realized that the center project was a failure. You can wonder if the Left is more satisfied now to cooperate with the Labour Party in front of the Right and the Advance Party. My question to the representative of Kvassheim is: Does the representative agree with the central party summits that it is only in cooperation with the Workers' Party that they can get more fairer distribution of the goods in society, and does he think this will have consequences for the many obscured right-wing freedom of the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1250	The left is a center party. We are prepared to cooperate both with the Workers' Party and with the Right Party and the Advance Party, depending on the nature of the matter. It is right that, in relation to the relationship with the Workers' Party, it is possible to find good solutions in welfare policy that would have become more difficult to get work done in relation to the Right and the Advance Party. In other areas, for example: in the field of industrial policy, innovation, research and possibly schooling, it is easier to get good solutions with the Right. What is important in the budgetary situation from one year to another is to take into account the actual situation. Last year, the Workers' Party had excluded itself from Norwegian policy by preventing cash support from working together. This year the Right List so high that it was quite natural to go to the largest party and seek to find a solution there. The result shows that it was a good strategy, for the Workers' Party was prepared to find a solution that provided what was our main concern, namely to bring to decision what is the main line of government policy. My answer is that in some cases it is natural to cooperate with the Workers' Party and in other matters with the Right. This shows that it is wrong when the representative Husøy says that the left is a mini-right. We have a completely different balance with welfare goods than the Right has, and it is also reflected in the cooperation we are involved in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1261	The left is still making itself the spokesperson of small and medium-sized enterprises. My question to the representative Kvassheim must then go to the tax bill that they have agreed with the Workers' Party. The representative, Terje Johansen, who is the financier of the Left, spoke yesterday on this question and was not quite satisfied with the result. So my question is: does the representative Kvassheim think that the conciliation is an improvement for small and medium-sized enterprises, and what in the tax system is left most satisfied with? When I have the parliamentary leader of the Left speaking and may have the opportunity to ask questions, I would also be interested to receive an answer to the following: Does the parliamentary leader of the Left agree with the leader of the Young Left that it would be reasonable to have a right in a government, perhaps to replace the Central Party with the Right? It could give quite interesting constellations if that was the case, not least for the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1270	The Labour Party put in good time before the elections a policy to redeploy. It was to beat the rich, as it was said, by taking away from business and transferring to other groups. An attack on the stock discount, the sharing model and the shipping tax were important elements of that policy. We managed, in cooperation with the Workers' Party, to get a decision where the Workers' Party countered all these important areas. I think it can be of great importance for stability, for business and for the maritime industries that the Workers' Party has been forced back into these positions. The most important thing for business in the coming years is that there is stability in the large lines. There are, of course, adjustments in the budgetary agreement we could have thought had been settled. It was just supposed to be missing, because our starting point is that the government made clear the best budget. However, the adjustments are no greater than they should be acceptable and can be accepted without prejudice to the main profiling of the Government budget. As far as cooperation is concerned, my starting point for the next parliamentary term is that there are two possible solutions: either the one on which the Left went to the elections at the previous crossroads, which was a centre cooperation linked up to the Right, or a continuation of the cooperation that is now, which has proved to work very well, much better than many fears. The leader of the Young Left has cast himself into this debate with a position identical to that of the Left who went to the elections the previous time, a position similar to that of the Christian People's Party. That is a good starting point for a debate in the party, which becomes important to us, but which also becomes important to the outside world, because just as we played a key role in 1997, when the Labour Party was challenged, we will do so in 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1280	The fact that the Left feels more comfortable at this time of the year by cooperating with the Workers' Party, we only get to take note. They have thus also contributed greatly to the removal of the rumor that they are a kind of edition of the little Right. That the rumor is completely cleared of the road, we have nothing against it. However, what surprises me very much about the Left's policy in this context is that the historical opportunity in Norway is not being used to convert those parts of Norwegian society and the Norwegian sector that need to be converted to those degrees. We have huge surpluses in balance of payments, but we choose to pursue the same policy by strengthening and safeguarding the interests of protected industries, not contributing to infrastructure and transport or cleaning up regulations that make the school malfunction, etc. This naturally means that the Minister of Finance is absolutely right. It is not possible, nor is it desirable, and the Minister of Finance decides, to reduce the Norwegian level of interest rates in order to bring it down to a European level. Does the representative Kvassheim think that this is a policy that helps to strengthen Norwegian competitive jobs? To my surprise, I also see that the Left is also involved in making a cut in the depreciation model. They even make a double-size cut in the depreciation model for construction in District Norway. Does the representative Kvassheim believe that this is a policy that helps to strengthen residence, strengthen jobs and initiatives in District Norway? Isn't this, as I think, an active contribution to accelerating the movement flow from District Norway to the centre?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1289	I record that we are now being attacked from the Right and from the Workers' Party to some of the same issues. It does emphasize what was a key point in my post, that in our central position, we take care of elements that are important in relation to welfare schemes, and then we balance them with a much more offensive industrial policy than the Workers' Party has. With regard to the elements of industrial policy affected by the amended budget, I believe they are of marginal importance in relation to the large picture. I'll actually say it so that there's a much worse signal in relation to the districts and businesses in the districts when the Right is going to rage on the SND. In some cases, I definitely recognize the activity profile and definitely the district profile. So the representative asked, why doesn't the Left use this opportunity to renew Norwegian business, get a forward-looking Norwegian business? Well, we're using that possibility, for example. with a large-scale commitment to research, which led NHO's Kristin Clemet to say that here the government has every reason to be satisfied. A follow-up to the promise you had to bet on research. Here it must be in the Right context that the NHO is also taken in income for the truth when it goes in the favor of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1298	The representative Kvassheim made it a major point that someone now has an economic structure that is adapted to the economic situation. It's not special for the government's arrangement. All the budgetary options presented are, of course, adapted to the economic situation. The fact that someone wants to spend a little more money on the public sector is compensated for by the withdrawal of purchasing power from the private sector. We also clearly believe that our economic structure, which is well-balanced and well-balanced, is appropriate to the economic situation. While we are now discussing the budget for next year, we know that there are actions going on around Norwegian schools. It's smart, solid teachers standing on the barricades. There are no professional demonstrators or anything like that that now marks their discontent, their frustration, their arrogance – that is what this is an expression of. So Kvassheim says that the left-hand rates of education, and they promised in the election campaign, so now they're following up. If we look at the original draft budget that has come from the Government – something has become better now after the cooperation with the Workers' Party – what kind of commitment to education is Kvassheim thinking about? Something has been put in to strengthen continuing training for teachers, some IT efforts have been put in. That is what has been done by increasing appropriations for education. My question to Kvassheim in this regard is: What will he answer to these teachers – these wise teachers – who are now fighting for a better school, who are fighting to increase access to resources to the school? I'm ignoring what's going on with pay, but I'm thinking about securing school and making it better. What is the answer on the basis of the budget that Kvassheim defends, and which he presents as a commitment to the school? It's difficult for us, and I'm convinced that the teachers who are now out there are also quite difficult to see what this effort is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1309	Before the election, the government promised a bet at the school, and it was concrete and followed up in the budget. I described it in my post as a first step in a necessary stepping up of efforts for Norwegian school. Then we had a local election in the fall where we chose people for municipal government and county council. The left's management sent out the signal that we wanted our people in municipalities and county municipalities to give priority to school when the budget was treated. The signals we're now getting from around the country indicate that the lift is being followed up. In many places we are more offensive at school than parties that had a higher tabling on it before the election. I have a great deal of respect for those who are now acting around Norway to get more resources to school, and I am prepared to contribute constructively to follow this up. Then the left and the left have a slightly different role. We are in a place where the practical results are created in many municipalities and in central policy. It's a role that we're prepared to use to get a kick-off in school.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1318	It would be clear from the debate we have had these two days that one of the main driving forces behind the Workers' Party's desire to have a budgetary settlement with the central government parties is to achieve a fairer distribution policy. The reactions, especially from the Center Party, seem to have been quite clear, and I also think there are quite clear signals from the Christian People's Party that it is at the intersection of the Workers' Party/SV and the government parties that such an opportunity can be achieved. But I feel that the Left hurt a lot of uncertainty about where they stand. The representative, Gunnar Kvassheim, is once again trying to point out the issue of block independence. I think it's a bit in contrast to the performance we saw on the Dayrevy two days ago, where first the Young Left's leader was interviewed, some of which has been on, but where Gunnar Kvassheim was not less clear in his subsequent statement, namely that the Right is preferable to the left side of the policy. Does this mean that the Left inside the Government would not want one this time to come to a result with the Workers' Party, but that it was really a cooperation with the Right One would want? Does it also mean that the distribution policy is not so important to the Left? We know that one of the consequences of last year's settlement was that the limit of entitlement to sick pay was dropped. Fortunately, we did it again this year. It must then be clear that, in further cooperation with the right-hand side, important welfare goods are at risk. I also think it's a cross of thought that the Left with six representatives in the Storting today has an incredibly good count in the Government, with four government councils. Then one should also be aware that it is fully possible to form a government at a later stage without the Left being part of the parliamentary basis for a government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1327	The representative Rasmussen seems to be concerned that the Left as a small party has great influence and is in government. What led up to the change of government and caused this concern may be better suited to internal discussions in the Labour Party than to hold me responsible for it. The left is concerned with a fair distribution, and it will never be appropriate to cooperate with the Right and the Progress Party on a budget and to contribute to weakening welfare policy and moving in the wrong direction in terms of distribution policy. But the Labour Party must not be able to make it up to the fact that when a change in fiscal policy next year amounts to DKK 1.3 billion, of which a not insignificant part is taken from the AMS system, a Norway moves from being a deeply unfair society to becoming a consistently fair society. There are relatively marginal changes that have been made. They have gone in the right direction many of them, but it does not change the overall picture, which was also in place in the government budget. Distribution policy is important for the Left, and it is important for this government. What amazes me is much more the change of the Workers' Party in rhetoric around the budget. When it was presented, Igland was strongly critical, it was an unacceptable distribution profile, and it was completely impossible to participate in a scheme where the government only allowed the expenses to grow and grow and had great problems getting the math to go up. So now the working party is going to be 100 pst. on a scheme that goes up on the same scale as the government put forward, for which, as the Minister of Finance said yesterday — and that is a significant point — the major items in the budget are 100 pst. in place relative to when it was presented.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1334	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1337	The Christian People's Party is well pleased with the agreed draft state budget for the year 2000 following negotiations with the Labour Party. It could be tempting to use a well-known formulation by the former chairman of the financial committee Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, who almost always – independently of the results – used to initiate his contribution to the financial debate with the following words: The government has had an impact on its priorities at all levels. I think this time it's good enough as a description of the majority position available for treatment. There was therefore every reason for the central parties to celebrate this budgetary agreement, even though dancing on the table in the Council of State was an exaggeration. But cakes were. I would like to pay tribute to the Workers' Party for good and tidy negotiations, where it was possible to get ashore and reach agreement at such an early stage that an avoiding both night meetings, overtime work and the drama that we have experience of can create uncertainty also in the markets. Of course, the Workers' Party has had an influence on budget design. It was just supposed to be missing. However, it has been a long time since the transfer of so little money in the context of a budgetary settlement, so the government's budget profile and main priorities have been retained. It is well expected when the opposition parties, which are not involved in this agreement, criticise the content of the budgetary agreement and also try to minimize the political significance of this for the Government. There have been quite vigorous attempts at this during this debate. Not least, Per-Kristian Foss has been diligent in his acidic remarks. The agreement is politically justified, Foss believes, because it must have solved internal problems in the central government and perhaps also in the Workers' Party. He's wrong about the center parties – I don't know if he's better informed about the conditions in the Workers' Party. We would have more of an agreement with the Right than what we achieved with the Workers' Party, says both Jan Petersen and Per-Kristian Foss. I think that the Right is quite alone in such an assessment. The right budget line is not very similar to a cooperative approach to us. It's a scheme for more biased distribution, more to those who already have enough, less to the environment and less to the distribution for the poor of the earth. I think the Evening Post put it all quite right in the leader on November 8th: Right chose ‘to launch an alternative that was characterized by completely unrealistic demands against the three parties in the government position’. Yesterday, Per-Kristian Foss said that it is a social democratic budget that has been presented. It was in Political Quarter. The Labour Party, after a lot of internal debate I have understood, has accepted that the cash support should be continued. But when did cash support become social democratic policy and priority? The stock discount is continued, the improvements in the sharing model are retained with a few adjustments, the separate company tax as well. As you know, this has never been part of a social-democratic policy, but this is an important part of the budgetary agreement that has been reached. That's why Foss' description is wrong, and of course he knows that very well. The budget agreement contains the main priorities of the Government, not only because it is relocated on a limited amount in the budget, but because one can recognise the main political issues of the centre party in the agreed proposal: the cash support is expanded. The health effort shall be continued. The district profile and environmental profile have been preserved. We have strengthened the municipal economy so that it can be further invested in the school. The framework conditions for small enterprises are maintained with a few adjustments. Child protection is extended to 18 years. We have managed to carry out such a comprehensive budgetary debate with clear political priorities without altering neither the balance nor the underlying expenditure growth in the budget. The budgetary agreement will therefore make an important contribution to the continued stable development of the Norwegian economy, as the Minister of Finance described the situation in his intervention here yesterday. It will benefit businesses as well as the individual of us.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1360	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1363	I very much appreciate what Steensnæs said that the Workers' Party had behaved neatly in the negotiations. Steensnæs also said that the government gets through most of its budget, and that's absolutely right. And the reason for this is that the Workers' Party supports the basis on which our welfare society rests and which is enshrined in this state budget, as it has been laid down in the last ten years' state budgets. So the main things in our welfare community are the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties. Then we've managed to turn what you can take out of economic growth more in the direction of the Workers' Party than was the case last year. But here we need a little bit of clarification. I tried to do that in the line-up with the Prime Minister, which is that it is quite incomprehensible that the leader of the Christian People's Party then says that we prefer to cooperate with the Right. Because, in cooperation with the Workers' Party, a pressure is being put on to turn the policy into the direction in which the centre parties have given a great deal of attention, namely the fair distribution of Community instruments. But if you're going to cooperate with the Right Party and the Advance Party, you're going to be pressured to go in the opposite direction – that's in the opposite direction of what you really want. Tax relief of 7 billion kroner, which is right-wing, will reduce public consumption. The cut in aid of SEK 1.5 billion is in contradiction with the Prime Minister's emphasis today. Cuts in agricultural transfers are right at the heart of the policy of the centre parties. The removal of the press support will lead to the death of the press in the districts. So at point-by-point, it's in conflict with the central party's policy. Even the leader of the Christian People's Party says that one prefers to cooperate with the Right. Can this be clarified during this debate?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1370	It is clear that in very important areas, the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties share common priorities. That's some of the explanation that it went well and effectively to be able to come to an agreement. But in a line to Thorbjørn Jagland after his main posts today, I pointed out two important areas – which the Prime Minister also replied to – where the Workers' Party and the Centre parties stand apart. I think it's based on the ideological foundation on which our parties are founded. We have a different starting point for the value base on which society is to be based in relation to what the Workers' Party has. I do not want to dramatize the distance, because there is a great convergence of attitudes in the concept of solidarity of the labour movement and the Christian closeness concept, but when it is to be derived from what it means for the individual, unfortunately social democracy is still characterized by a far too collective attitude towards the freedom of individuals and freedom of choice, both for families and for individuals, we believe that the policy must be shaped. And there are concrete conclusions to what was the most difficult point for the Workers' Party also in this budget debate, namely the cash support. We also see it as very important to be able to support small and medium-sized enterprises, and have struggled with the Workers' Party through several budgetary negotiations in order to understand the need for a stable framework to enable these companies to survive. I am therefore very pleased with the answer given by Thorbjørn Jagland to my reply today, namely that the Workers' Party has now sidelined these constant attacks on the framework conditions and has accepted that the framework conditions for these companies must be stable in order to ensure value creation and jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1378	In the course of today's debate, we have heard both the Prime Minister and now the representative Steensnæs state that the options for the Advance Party, and in particular the Right, were to be seen as a provocation for the central government and thus also the reason for not being able to enter into negotiations with the two respective parties. I would like to ask the representative Steensnæs why these same budgets were not to be regarded as a provocation in 1997 and 1998, when we had budgetary negotiations and the same two parties put forward identical budgets with the same profile, with the same cuts – which the centre still does not like – with the same proposals for tax reductions and with the same proposals to add to the areas of investment. It was quite similar – absolutely similar. Steensnæs even said in some comments about the launch of these alternative budgets that they were as expected. In other words, it couldn't come as a shock at the centre that the Progress Party is presenting an alternative budget that shows what we would do if we had a clean majority. That's what we have. And then we can go to the negotiations and see if there's any reason to agree. So we've been able to do that for two years. But now it has suddenly become so that this is to be considered a provocation. And then another question: since this debate has only talked about distribution, does the representative Steensnæs believe that the two previous budgetary agreements had no elements of good distribution policy in themselves, and that we were actually engaged in 'unallocation', and that it was now imperative to turn the course in a different direction because economic policy was so wrong in its place through the two previous budgetary agreements?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1385	The representative, Siv Jensen, uses the word provocation. It is a characteristic neither the Prime Minister nor I have given the draft budget of the Progress Party or the Right. I have said for my part that there was a lot of recognizable and predictable in these. But as cooperative, they were highly unclear. For its part, the Prime Minister has said that it was a draft budget – and that was, of course, to which reference was made – that would make budgetary negotiations difficult, but of course not impossible. But in relation to how it is now produced – actually with a certain wound, and I will refer to a clipping from the VG on October 13 with the title: ‘Why are you going to Ap, Bondevik?’, written by Per-Christian Foss – I have to just return the description that Siv Jensen gave. We did nothing else in 1999 than what we did in 1997 and 1998. We went to the Labour Party and started negotiations with them. The difference was that in 1997 and 1998, the Workers' Party had not been able to fix its position on the cash support, which led to the collapse of the negotiations. As a result, negotiations were started with the Right and the Advance Party. In 1999, we did the exact same thing. We addressed ourselves to the Workers' Party. In the meantime, the Workers' Party had its thoughts on how to deal with the cash support. They had understood that if they were to cooperate with us, they had to respect the agreed cash support agreement, which we are obliged to, yes not only obliged to, but which we want to hold on to and fight for. So based on that, we agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1392	This was very interesting, but not surprising. What Steensnæs now confirms is that the Workers' Party has had the first right of budgetary cooperation with the Government every single year of these years, and they have not been interested in talking to either the Right Party or the Advance Party if they could obtain firm fish from the Workers' Party. It would be quite interesting for all citizens – including those who vote in the Christian People's Party – to know that this is what the Christian People's Party wants to do. I'm sure Steensnæs, who is affordablely open, now at the same time disappoints these bourgeois voters quite vigorously with what he says. He has given priority to the Workers' Party. What's the interesting question is, where does the block independence become, when you're always going to the Workers' Party, and it's in Thorbjørn Jagland's hand to decide what they and the Government are going to agree on? This is probably saying a little bit about what the idea really is with the government. I must also say that I think Thorbjørn Jagland should not be as sorry as he expressed himself. We have some experience with the central government, and we get the impression that every time we have agreed with the government, they will always cooperate with the Labour Party. It is no wonder that they now say the opposite when they have agreed with the Workers' Party. But then to the question of the cash support. It is produced as if it were a center matter. It's not. It's a common-citizen matter, and it would never have been close to being realized if it hadn't been on the Progress Party program and on the Right Program. The Workers' Party now wants to intervene in the cash support in relation to the evaluations. This is an electoral reform that it is important to be vigilant. It's not long until this grossing-up period is over. Can we get into the situation that the Christian People's Party will actually start negotiations with the Workers' Party on the cash support, perhaps to destroy it as the electoral reform it is? As I said, only two years have elapsed until the current period to which the contract applies.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1403	I'm going to start with the last one, so it won't in any way be a pressure on time in the line, and confirm that the Christian People's Party obviously stands by this agreement out of the whole period, as we've agreed. In fact, the Right raised uncertainty about how they would deal with this agreement in the autumn of 1998, when it was said that the situation was so special that they had to go to the Workers' Party if necessary in order to reach a budgetary settlement. Then they knew that they had to give up the cash support. Jan Petersen doesn't have to shake his head, for this is quoted from the newspapers. It was a situation that worried us, and Jan Petersen knows very well that we went out in the newspapers and in the media and expressed surprise that the Right considered such an opportunity. We stand by the cash support as a very important agreement. We are, of course, pleased that both the Right and the Advance Party are involved in this. But Jan Petersen cannot succeed in depriving Solvency Sollie of the fatherhood of this very important family policy reform. It's hers. She's the mother of the cash support, or grandma if we're going to give Valgerd Reply City Haugland the fun itself. So this is the case with block independence. Yes, we have said many times that we want to cooperate with all parties on the Stortinget. I do not want to put in a way now any alternative strategy in the case that we had agreed with the Labour Party in 1997 and 1998, because we did not. We have twice agreed with the Right and the Advance Party on a budget, but we must admit that, through the budgetary agreements, there were distortions in relation to what the centre parties wanted to give priority to. We are therefore very pleased that, through the budgetary agreement we have now reached with the Labour Party, we have been able to rectify it, so that the policies we do not have with the Right have now been prioritised in this budget line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1412	I would like to ask the parliamentary leader of the Central Party a little more about this block-dependence, for now Steensnæs has described its procedure in terms of budgetary negotiations as a technical matter in which the meat weight determines: you go to the largest batch first. Since the cash support, according to the Christian People's Party's opinion, is now cleared of the way to prevent cooperation with the Workers' Party, it must be reasonable to expect that the Centre will also at the next harvest's state budget to address the Workers' Party first, since the Centre and the Workers' Party have good traditions in terms of cooperation, and then I wonder what kind of leadership it gives for the next majority period. We're moving towards a big elections in 2001, and the big question is what kind of majority constellation it's going to be in the United Kingdom after that election. And since the Christian People's Party places so much emphasis on the meat weight when it comes to who you first go to and negotiate with, it may well be that the Workers' Party thinks the same way, namely that the meat weight should also determine who it is that has government. Then the question of the Christian People's Party and to the extent that the other central parties, which I expect Steensnæs to be unable to answer on behalf of, will be as cooperative with the Workers' Party as the Workers' Party has proved to be with them now. In that case, we have the possibility of new political constellations in Norwegian policy. On the SV side, we hope that the next big shot will give us a result where we have both strength and a position in relation to majority constellations on the Stortinget that give us decisive influence. But in relation to some of the more bourgeois-oriented voters, it might be interesting to ignore some of the Steensnæs" a little bit longer-term thoughts.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1419	Sir. Steensnæs is the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1422	I know, sir. President.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1427	We cooperate so well in the center that I have nothing against being titulated as Kristin Halvorsen now did. I don't know if Johan J. Jakobsen is as comfortable with it, and I might also have problems with questions other than those Kristin Halvorsen now traveled. So to the more long-term – let's say – strategies for the center parties. We contacted the Workers' Party first, and we've done that in the three years, but I can tell you so much from our internal deliberations that I can say that we haven't laid down any templates or strategy for who we're going to turn to next autumn. An assessment will be made as it has been in the previous three years. We then made an assessment and reached a conclusion. What is our starting point is to seek cooperation with those parties that as far as possible agree with the priorities of the central government. Of course, we will study very carefully the alternative budget proposals that come up. Can we see cooperation signals from the opposition parties that make it interesting to consider a particular negotiating strategy? It is such deliberations that are the starting point for the budget negotiations on our part. For our part, we have said that it is the central government's draft budget that is the starting point for the negotiations. We want to negotiate with all the parties on the Stortinget as far as it is possible to make an impact on the government's policy, of course, with the recognition that those who form a majority with us will have a reasonable opportunity to influence the budget profile. This has been the case in the previous years, as it has been this year, and so it will be next year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1438	I have noticed the dispute between the Christian People's Party and the Right over who is the mother of the cash support, and I sincerely hope now that they do not have the same argument going on about father, so that the Christian People's Party will get a father's case in prison, would look bad, I think. Many people think that the Workers' Party has accepted the cash support in the current budget, but for the Workers' Party it is very important that the cash support is evaluated. That's probably the government's view, too, because from the first day of, they've spent a lot of millions evaluating the plan. What we've come up with now is that by using NOK 2.9 billion, you've actually managed to get about. 3 pst. several of the women to spend more time on their children, while men’s time use has not changed a substance. The government actually keeps the cards pretty close when it comes to what they want to evaluate. That's interesting enough, but the Workers' Party wants to give some advice on what to evaluate. It is important to evaluate the functioning of the day-care market and the situation of children who should have been in kindergarten but who are not because their parents want money instead. What about immigrant children's language development? How many are there who want kindergartens, which they don't exist, and who take cash support instead? So my question to Steensnæs is: Will the Government carry out a comprehensive evaluation, and will they take the consequences of the evaluation? When men are not at home when they receive cash support, will they take the consequences of doing something about it? When the children of child protection do not have children's playgrounds, and there is evidence of a wrong development, will they take the consequences?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1447	I noticed the elements that Grethe G. Fossum thought should be included in an evaluation, and the expectation that one also adjusted the cash support scheme if necessary in order to avoid the unfortunate misappropriation that she intended to point out. I think it is right to include all the elements mentioned by Grethe G. Fossum as a background for an evaluation. It's natural. But I also want to make a reservation against drawing too fast a conclusion as to what the cash support is the source of in terms of slip effects, and what is the result of other circumstances. There has been a rather great imaginative wealth with regard to various biases, which are sharply traced back to the cash support, but which has to do with completely different circumstances – everything from a biased energy balance because families with cash support use more power than other families, to more domestic violence if there is cash support, because then spouses and children become too much at home, and this leads to more violence and more problems at home. The type of analysis that I have actually seen from some scientific — I must say scientific — bodies has created considerable distrust for some of the evaluations that have emerged. But what the department has now started will provide the basis for a thorough evaluation where all the considerations that Grethe G. Fossum was concerned will be taken into account. Let me also tell Jan Petersen that in terms of freedom of choice and more time for the children, there are two of the important points of the cash support that the Christian People's Party wants to retain also through evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1456	The cord shift is over. Before the representative of Thoresen gets the floor, the president will share the following with the assembly: the president has looked at the clock, the president has looked at the list of speakers, the president reminds us that it is a line-up – no line-up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1468	After this, I may be glad that the President gave me the floor. One of the starting points for the budget compromise we are discussing today was that the government parties themselves – and after two years of cooperation on the right in the political landscape – actively wanted cooperation with the Workers' Party in the policy of distribution. It is later that there is a broad perception in the three government parties that, in terms of reasonable action in the distribution of our common wealth and in what each of us has to pay into the community, the cooperation possibilities between the government parties and the Workers' Party go. The selected working party to configure. We did so by setting some requirements, especially for the distribution policy, but also for selected areas of activity in relation to the local economy, in relation to education and in relation to a number of other important areas. Now when we see the result, we also see that this has been successful. The Workers' Party, through its contribution to the budget which will have a majority in the Storting today, has provided room for a fairer tax system, on the one hand, for tax relief to those with income at the bottom of the ladder, and, on the other hand, for a certain amount of tax reinforcement to those at the top, by treating corporate taxation and capital taxation in such a way that one has sought to close the gaps that make it possible to misuse the tax system to remove personal income, but also in such a way that this should not have significant adverse effects on business. We have achieved a more active industrial policy vis-à-vis vulnerable industries, we have received 4 000 more sites for action and our own plans for increased unemployment in the shipbuilding and offshore industries. We are getting an increased investment in education, not least by a significant increase in the free income of the local government sector. So we also get a better general municipal economy, we get 2,000 more kindergartens and we get 1,000 more student homes. These are important areas that will change and improve the everyday lives of quite a few people in Norwegian society, and this happens without weakening the budgetary balance. In this respect, both the Minister of Finance and other reasons for celebrating this year's budget compromise with soft cake pissing. I guess the calorie intake over the previous two years may have been a bit more modest. From the Labour Party's point of view, this means that with the impact we have had on the key points of our policy, we support the entire budget. It is to take responsibility for the type of double-accounting which consists of one operating with subsidiary votes and with other and actual positions all the way. It also means that the Workers' Party is voting for the cash support in its current form for the next fiscal year. There are some who believe that this becomes a bit puzzled, and especially from SV, the criticism has been raised. But the actual situation is that what is at the disposal of real changes during a budgetary procedure in the Grand Duchy is not the totality of the government budget. In many ways, what determines the political direction is the margins of the state budget. It doesn't mean that this isn't important, but fortunately, it means that there are significant areas in the Norwegian welfare society that have a broad population, at least among most of the major parties represented in the Stortinget. The fact that I say that there are margins in the government budget that are available to create political compromises, and to improve the starting point that the government has put forward, does not mean that the changes are marginal. The important thing here is the direction. Now the centre-right cooperation is broken, with all that means for more community action in important areas and more fairer distribution. Of course, we – and we mean the Workers' Party here, but of course we also include others who have to believe the same thing – have significantly higher ambitions than what we are now able to solve within a year's budget. I would say as Winston Churchill said after the British breakthrough in North Africa during the last world war: «Now this is not the end. It is not even the beginning of the end.» But what he concluded with in this situation is probably so important: ‘But it is, perhaps, the end of the beginning.’ In my view, it is not possible to see each budget separately. What's most interesting today is maybe how we'll solve the challenges ahead in business, school development and distribution policy. But to that we need predictability, and we need a stable course. We need pattern, and we need context. The Prime Minister said earlier today – and towards the Labour Party – that the lack of predictability of the framework conditions for our vital business could be a problem. I agree. However, the lack of predictability of the entire budget side for all Norwegian citizens who depend on the budget is perhaps such a big problem. Therefore, tax policies and distribution policies are both a key task for all of us as a distribution of wealth among the citizens of Norwegian society, and as a prerequisite for public spending. That is why it will also be particularly exciting for us to see how today's budget compromise will turn out to be in future cooperation. Here, improper reactions from the middle parties are slightly different. With relatively high patriotism, the centre party seems to go into such a longer-term thinking, while other government parties are somewhat more reserved. Here, of course, one has to subtract from the polemic dimension that any government will be reserved to consider alternatives to itself at all. But I don't think the comfort of the Prime Minister and the Christian People's Party about block independence can be the answer. Because we have to ask ourselves, what really would have happened if the negotiations between the government parties and the Workers' Party on this state budget had not been successful? The government parties seem to think that they could only have turned to the Right and the Advance Party and sought the solution there. It's possible it could have gone. But it would have led to a completely different policy of distribution, almost the exact opposite policy of distribution. And that, in turn, would have led to significant changes in the common societal tasks on which it was to be invested. So in such a situation, the government would go from what they are now satisfied with in terms of distribution policy and social commitment to the very opposite. I find it difficult to believe that it would be unproblematic, not for the year's budget, but also for the long term. Therefore, when the government looks into the next millennium, it has to be based on a direction and stability. In the long run, the government can hardly take comfort in its ability to survive from day to day.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1507	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1510	The working party has for a long time tried to present itself as a kind of Robin Hood, they weaken the spokesperson against the rich. Surely the idea is that one should take from the rich and give to the poor. Who is the least in this society? I'm going to think that the minimum pensioners are among them. The State budget for 1998 provided the party with an impact on an increase in the minimum pension of NOK 12 000. This was eaten up in the context of social security settlements by various notable up- and down-regulations, co-ordinations and price increases, which led to an increase in purchasing power of NOK 12 000, as the Progress Party wanted. The Labour Party does not seem to be careful to take this away from the minimum pensioners. As is well known, the minimum pensioners are hardest hit by the sharp increase in the electricity charge. They do because this group usually sits with the oldest apartments and houses, in other words, the type of house that is the worst isolated and requires the most use of electricity to keep heat. This group pays as it is known not to be taxed, because they have such low income. In the scheme of the Workers' Party, the lowest income shall be taxed to cover the sharp increase in the electricity charge. Does the President think that the representative Thoresen can explain to me how the minimum pensioners, who do not pay taxes, will get tax relief? Isn't this really the opposite of Robin Hood's policy? It seems to me that the thousands of thousands of minimum pensioners who have the least, who are charged this fee so that those who earn a little more, are taxed. The reality of this budget is that those who have the least in society, those who live far away from the center, and those who have to use the car, become the big losers. Unfortunately, the minimum pensioners are the ones who lose the most. The 12 000 kroner that the minimum pensioners would get extra from the state have now returned. My other question is: how has the Workers' Party intended to replace the losses of minimum pensioners on an increased electricity charge?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1525	It's my innermost belief that if we talk about supporting the weak groups in Norwegian society, there can of course be some disagreement about who it is. There may be minimum pensioners, families with children in an establishment or people without work. If a person wants to support the weak groups in the Norwegian community, the safest way is to have the economy to help maintain the welfare state, to help keep the common consumption up and to help distribute something from each of us who have a reasonably useful economy, to those who need community solutions. At my best discretion, the overall economic structure of the Advance Party is not a good contribution, on the contrary, I believe that it is the worst contribution in that way. We all know how income is determined in Norwegian society. Because I distance myself somewhat from how someone in a financial debate withdraws certain groups in terms of wage fixing, for example. teachers, I will also show that income for pensioners is determined through social security schemes. But those who only have the minimum pension to live on, and have no other income besides — some of them do — would not get any significant tax reinforcement because they do not pay taxes initially. Moreover, those who have low earnings in addition to pensions will, of course, benefit from the tax proposal submitted by the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1532	I think the last answer from Tom Thoresen shows how bad the Workers' Party's so-called distribution policy is, for who is now going to pay in what is said to be a good budget for distribution policy? Well, it's the retired people who use electrical power, the insured people who use electrical power. They have to pay more in electricity. Those who continue to live in their own housing must pay more in the form of housing taxes, and those pensioners who have special deductions due to age are limited because the majority refuses to adjust this in relation to wage developments in society. And so this is called distribution policy. You can also look at other sides of this. Under the cover of distribution policies, small savers can be solved by abolishing the AMS scheme, a scheme by which many low-income people have enjoyed; they feel that they have gained economic freedom by being able to do something. So this handshake of the small savers will remove the Workers' Party, under the distribution policy heading. This is labour party policy at worst, it's a lot of words, but it's a poor distribution policy. Then I would like to congratulate the Workers' Party on the day after Steensnæs" posts, because he has now very clearly stated that the Workers' Party has been the first election for three years, and he used it as a reason that the Workers' Party is the largest. The Labour Party is also going to be the largest until next year, and therefore the Labour Party is going to be the first election to next year. It's obvious that the budget unit has been kind of an introduction offer, and Thoresen says they're going to demand more. But then my question is, how long will the Workers' Party really be satisfied with the fact that little brother reigns? Is the Labour Party really comfortable with this, when they are so dissatisfied with the policy that Jagland expressed? At what point do the ambitions get so big that the government is still not safe?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1541	The last question is actually not up to me to answer. The government sits safely as long as it settles with the political composition of the Stortinget, and the Government chooses in the composition of the Stortinget. When Steensnæs has talked about going first to the Workers' Party, I am not convinced that this is just about the meat weight. This is in my opinion about a political choice where the Government has high-leveled the policy of distribution and has therefore wanted to reach a political budgetary compromise with the Workers' Party. Because of this clear signal, the Workers' Party admitted that we did not want the dispute about cash support to be closed for such cooperation, when we saw the possibility of good and constructive solutions. And we got that. In the case of those in the Norwegian community who are to pay for, for example: I personally believe that the increase in the electricity tax does not have insignificant environmental policy arguments for the increase in the electricity tax, and that in each household it is possible to regulate to a certain extent the amount to be paid for such an increase. But I remember that the right in its arrangement actually tightens up so much just on the union deduction that for a family with two trade-unioned zeros out of the relief the right gives on the electricity tax.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1553	I feel that Tom Thoresen was reasonably pessimistic on behalf of the Stortinget in his eagerness to defend the budget compromise that the Labour Party has concluded with the government parties, when he says that it is only the margins on which we can conduct politics – that was almost verbally quoted. When Tom Thoresen takes that angle of incidence, it's based on the cost side, I'm assuming. But I expect Tom Thoresen to agree with me and SV that we can influence these margins – we can make them bigger, we can make them smaller – by also having a income page. We as magnification can influence this income side and make the margins bigger, and thus will have a greater opportunity to conduct policies here also from the Storting. I think it's important that Tom Thoresen might try to confirm or cancel it, because I think he was very eager to defend his compromise. So to the commitment to education. Tom Thoresen and the Workers' Party want the increase in the free resources of the municipal sector to go to education. Now we know that especially the county councils have huge deficits in the current year, and there's good reason to fear that some of the free resources they get have to be ploughed in to cover this deficit. Let me stress, as Tom Thoresen says that this is a commitment to education, that I agree with him and the Workers' Party that providing the local government with as much free money as possible is a right priority. But to say afterwards that these are the funds that will go to education, I think I'm quite lazy and quite rude. And then my question becomes: Does Tom Thoresen and the Workers' Party feel reasonably confident that these funds will fall to the education sector and strengthen and improve it both in the municipal sector and in the county sector?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1562	I agree with Rolf Reikvam that Stortinget can change the income side of the state budget and thus get more room for use on the expenditure side of the state budget. But it has its obvious limitations in relation to e.g. price rises and other factors that we are concerned with are not going to develop negatively in the Norwegian community. Indeed, the Workers' Party has contributed to tax changes because of a change in tax distribution more than a significant increase in the revenue base of the State budget. And I think that's a proper priority. That also means, of course, that we have had to cut some of the budget places to make room for the areas of activity we think are most important. What I meant by the margins of the state budget is that one should neither exaggerate nor understate a budget change of several billion dollars when one sees the total size of the state budget, precisely because there are so many tied expenditures there, and because, fortunately, the community of value in Norwegian society is so wide that everyone agrees that there should be tied expenditure in the Norwegian welfare state. So, in addition to the free resources of the municipalities, the Workers' Party has some increase for the counties. Among other things, we have have started a bet on free schoolbooks, and we have invested in the construction of student housing. So the education page goes in the right direction, although of course it doesn't solve all the problems in a year's budget. The way the municipalities use the free means is at the seventh and last municipalities themselves. But I would think – not least after the municipal election campaign we have behind us – that strengthening primary school will be a high priority in most Norwegian municipalities. And in many places I think the work is already well started.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1573	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1576	The total absence of the budgetary agreement between the Labour Party and the Centre is an active strategy for attracting and maintaining value-creating activities in Norway. This is not achieved through large public investment funds or by forcing enterprises to stay in Norway. On the other hand, a long-term industrial policy adapted to a new and knowledge-driven economy must be developed. The Labour Party leader Thorbjørn Jagland had a real problem description in his article. He said that we need to take political action to prevent the branching of Norway. But then we actually have to have a tax system and a level of taxation that is competitive. And what do the center and the working party do? They increase corporate tax, break the tax settlement, increase the taxes on employee income so that one comes up to 56 p.m., and exacerbates the divisional model of active owners – even if the Prime Minister has passed the house; there is something about what you want to overstep. The budgetary agreement is going in the wrong direction and can actually undermine the tax reform of 1992, and if it goes on, it will mean that we get back a less efficient and less transparent tax system. It has to be assumed that increased taxes on the highest wage income will be passed on to enterprises, so that the new step in the top tax will also lead to an increase in the cost to enterprises. Many have been concerned with distribution, but there is no reasonable distribution in society just by saying that you want it. You have to be judged for your actions. The tax settlement is a framework for reducing employment in the competitive sector and major problems in important parts of the economy. The Centre and the proposals and proceeds of the Workers' Party are largely based on a theory that the higher the tax on each enterprise, the larger the total tax revenue becomes to the public. In an open international economy, investments will be moved out of the country if the returns in Norway are not good enough. High taxes send negative signals both to those who own the enterprises and to those who intend to establish businesses – signals that investment and industrial activity are not paying off as well. Thus, growth and innovation are dampened, investment is diminishing and jobs are disappearing. We know the result: less to distribute. That's the fasit of the deal. And what's the deal done? In my view, the state budget for 2000, as it is now set up, shows anything but good distribution. The groups that we normally want to secure financially have to pay for the Bondevik government's need to rely on the Workers' Party. Children’s families will have a real drop in child welfare next year – 1.1 billion kroner will be cut by this group compared to 1999. I actually didn't think we were going to see that from this government. Everyone is now deprived of the possibility of paying less taxes through savings incentives. At least 800000 Norwegians have used the very popular AMS scheme. It has added Norwegian business more than NOK 10 billion to fresh equity, which has been used to invest in jobs. They have also agreed to increase the housing tax by 10 pst. Even if the dwelling is borrowed over the pipe, a few house taxes will be paid. Two of the government parties have made it clear in their decision-making programme that they are against the housing tax, but they are still proposing an increase. The left even called the unreasonable rent to the state. All households have to pay more in electricity with the budget agreement. A cautious increase, says the Minister of Oil and Energy. Now I actually didn't think you could make yourself say that there's a careful increase when you add up to 44 pst. higher electricity charge. In particular, the Senterpartie has in the past been very concerned that the electricity price should not be too high. The increase in the electricity charge is completely independent of personal finances and housing standards. The pensioners will be made worse by not adjusting the special deduction. So the increase in minimum pensions for a few years back is becoming increasingly concentrated on the government's policy. Budgetary cooperation with the Right would not go in such a direction. We proposed, on the contrary, an increase of DKK 0.5 billion for the families of children compared to the government council of Reply Haugland had on its budget. We have gone against the increase in the electricity charge, while we have wanted to improve the economy of pensioners. The right has also been concerned with improving the economy of newly established people who have been educated. In our alternative budget, we want to lower the student loan rate by cutting the Loan Fund's administrative charge. In addition, we want to raise the ceiling on the amount of top taxes, so that those with normal incomes do not have to pay this tax, which was supposed to hit the rich. With today's tax system, more than 800,000 Norwegians pay top taxes. The peak tax has become an average tax. With normal wages and salaries for industrial workers, top taxes are imposed. Initially, the government wanted even more people to be hit. I have noticed that several speakers, including from the Workers' Party, considers that the tax profile of the Right is not social. That's justified by our top tax position. The fact that we choose to raise the entry point of the top tax, so that no one who earns less than NOK 290 000 will pay the top tax, I cannot believe that the Workers' Party can make itself say that there is something wrong with the distribution profile. I was actually thought that with an average industrial worker's salary you would not pay top taxes, but you would do so with the revised proposal of the Workers' Party and the Centre. In addition, in budgetary cooperation with the Right, a billion bet could be made at school, which unfortunately does not take place with the budget of the Workers' Party and the Centre. The Centre and the Workers' Party say no to stepping up training for teachers with a total of 250 million. NOK, which we have added. You say no to 100 million. kr for teacher recruitment. And then you add 300 million. kr in the miscellaneous item in addition to that contained in the additional propositions of the Government. Miscellaneous items are an important tool to keep in mind in advance of spring’s pay statement. You have also said from the Labour Party and the Centre that you are concerned with an growth profile. Why do you vote down, for example? Right proposal to increase the number of hours in primary school? What is even more alarming is that the Workers' Party and Center are not willing to take over the crisis we are now seeing in Health Norway. We see that the four regional hospitals have huge problems. Of course, much can be done differently also in regional hospitals. But if you want to do something to bring down the queues, to get a better quality health system, you also have to do something about the regional hospital allowance. The regional hospitals are coming out very crooked. Right-wing promote proposals for an increase in the regional hospital allowance. It's being tuned down by the Center and the Workers' Party. Right-wing promote proposals to focus more on national cancer research. It's being voted down by the Working Party and the Center. Right-wing promote proposals for increased investment in research, which is crucial. In fact, Norway is at the bottom of Europe when it comes to research. We know that e.g. Finland rates almost twice that of Norway. Therefore, the Right promotes concrete and binding proposals to increase research efforts. But what does the Labour Party and Center do? They'll take it down. The right also promotes proposals for increased investment in our universities and colleges, because it is despite everything that investment needs to be invested if we are to manage to maintain our welfare level in the years to come. Even so, the Labour Party and Centre select to vote. Some representatives, especially from the Workers' Party, have said that Højre's municipal structure will affect the municipalities. This must be because we have not read our municipal budget. We have the same framework as proposed by the Government. In addition, we have a different charging profile. We will vote against an increase in the electricity charge of 44 pst. In fact, it must also be paid by the municipalities. With our budget, which goes against the large tax increases that are in place, it is estimated that the price increase will be approx. 0.5 pst. lower, and by 0,5 pst. lower price increases will give us a more moderate wage settlement, the nominal wage supplements will be lower and the municipalities will get better out of it. The sum of it all is that the municipalities will get out better with Right than what was originally set up by the Government. In addition, our increased investment in hospitals and schools comes. That's the Right Option.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1616	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1619	It's impressive to hear about Højre's alternative state budget in some areas. Now you're going to bet on research, you're going to bet on education, you're going to give more to the municipalities, it's called. There is a massive effort from the Right in the alternative budget that is not adopted today, and that will have no effect whatsoever on Norwegian society until next year. My question to the representative Burnde is: why in the world didn't all these good things come in the two years when the Right actually had an impact on the state budget in collaboration with the Center? Why was it not education you fought through in the harsh debates that lasted day and night, and that was dramatic – talk about government change, etc. And threats that we don't get that and that, there won't be any deal? Why was it not education, hospitals and municipal economy that was then the most important thing for the Right? Then there were tax reliefs and road appropriations that were crucial to the Right. But now that they're making their own choice, which is not going into any negotiations, it's suddenly a completely different song. Can we trust that it would have been right-wing requirements for the center, when you actually in the two years you had the opportunity, didn't you? Then there's a question to the representative Burnde about something that's in the Right Alternative State Budget. It is written that all state aid will be removed from the school leisure scheme except for the six-year-olds. Why is it that when it comes to high pay, the Right, which is concerned with taxation and money is going back to taxpayers, but when it comes to lower self-payment for families with children in the form of a cheaper school leisure system, you are against it? Is it that there are other recipients, namely the families of children and not the high-wage, who are against getting back some of the taxpayers' own money?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1628	First, I must agree with the representative, Giske, that it is actually a pity that the Right's budget is not being implemented. I think very many of the pensioners who get increased taxes, many of the families of children who get cut off in childhood, many of the schools that don't get the increased funding for quality in school, are deeply sorry. In relation to what Trond Giske was concerned about, that in the previous two years we were allegedly not to have carried out any of the matters mentioned here today, I can briefly mention: We have implemented the cash support, which was an important part of the Right’s decision-making programme for the current period. It was the Workers' Party very towards that time. Now all of a sudden they've become very much too. We have managed to protect against increased taxation of pensioners. The working party does want increased pensioner taxes, and that has been passed on to them this year. I'm sorry. The interest rate has fallen by 2.5 p.m. in the current year, among others. As a result of the moderate scheme we managed last year, the proposed large tax increases were avoided — the largest in the last ten years. We managed to prevent this, and it has had a positive effect on the Norwegian economy. Last year, during the financial debate, the Labour Party warned of the violent increase in unemployment that was to take place in the current year. Then we said, if we don't carry out the large tax increases, we don't want to bully business, and then unemployment will stay low. And unemployment is low. It is still among the absolutely lowest in Europe. We agreed with the Workers' Party that we would not want to increase last year. The working party said that it is completely wrong to increase the electricity charge, because it affects those who have the least. This year, the Right Party and the Advance Party are alone in not wanting to increase the electricity charge by 44 pst. Now it has suddenly become an important environmental tax, and the distribution effects do not concern the Workers' Party at all. They do not even fully compensate for an increase in the electricity charge to be charged – very socially.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1645	As usual, international solidarity and assistance were not a main theme of the right-wing representative’s posts. But that doesn't mean that the right is not engaged in international activity, the right has, among other things. a large and important commitment to international peace operations. We saw that, among other things. in the Right-wing support to the Government’s line in Kosovo. Even when humanitarian aid was to be followed up, the Right was involved. However, in terms of the coverage from the Right: the right should take from other vulnerable areas, long-term measures and badly needed resources in the area of assistance. And here we separated layers. If, in addition, the Right had received a pass on to its previous proposals for aid budgets, there would have been almost nothing to redistribute from the poor to the poor. How would the Right solve that problem? This year, the right is proposing DKK 1.2 billion in the budget for aid, but they are increasing the defence budget. It's possible to contribute before it slams. Does not the Right agree with the Centre that it is contributing humanitarian aid in, for example: potential conflict areas, training efforts, especially for young women, and self-help, will help prevent conflicts and create stability? This must also be seen to be better than just contributing when the conflict is a fact. So even though the Centre's arguments that we are responsible for the life base and framework conditions of fellow humans also outside Norway, have no impact on the Right, maybe the argument about peace and stability prevention could be interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1656	I saw that there was also a bit movement in the President when a representative from one of the central parties now did a virtue of cutting more than you had thought in the defence budget. In fact, the starting point was that the centre was also very critical of the great cuts in the Norwegian defence that the Workers' Party in its time provided. And the fact that you are now going out and proud of the cuts in relation to the weakening of Norwegian sovereignty protection, I actually didn't expect. We no longer have an invasion defence in Norway that can keep an enemy out for a few days until we get ally's help. But it's actually possible to have two thoughts in your head at once. We believe that it is possible to bet on both defence and assistance, and we also put a great deal of effort on assistance. We're not, like the Government, so very concerned that it should be exactly 1 pst. relative to GDP. We think that's a crazy end to begin with. We think it is much more important to set some targets for what Norwegian assistance should do, and then try to achieve a goal. And then we must focus on receiving responsibility, that we also have a responsibility for progress in the right direction in our own country. We must also be willing to assess the effectiveness of the aid, which, unfortunately, the Government is not willing to do. If you can feel well, if you give assistance, if you're satisfied, you can get the impression. But the important thing is that those who have it hurt and who are in the third world get a better situation. It is also necessary to go in and look at the effectiveness of the aid system itself. We know that very much of the aid — too much — goes to bureaucracy and is being used in Norway, and that is actually not the right development. I also think we have to be willing to go in and look at how the different regimes work. In Zimbabwe, health workers are now on strike due to a lack of necessary medicines and equipment, while the country spends 3 million. US dollars a month to participate in a war in Congo. Then you can question what Norwegian aid is going to do. Is it to finance a war in Congo? That kind of question should be the Christian People's Party more concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1667	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1670	After two years of central government, we note that the budgetary comparisons between the government parties, the Right and the Advance Party have led to the following: tax relief has been granted to those with the highest income and wealth-organised have received a specific tax increase in health care ratios increased with the lowest income have had lower health insurance entitlements for kindergartens stopped parents paying significantly more in order to have children in the school leisure scheme The central parties said before the big shot that they wanted a different political course. It has been given them – a course towards greater differences in Norwegian society. The working party believes that this is wrong in place. Despite our strong opposition to the introduction of a cash support scheme, the Workers' Party has therefore signaled its willingness to contribute to a budgetary solution that provides a fairer distribution and a more active public policy to secure work and education. We've made that clear. We have received a budget which far from fulfilling all the wishes of the Workers' Party, but which is still clearly turning the budget in the right direction: change in the tax regime so that those with the highest income have to pay, in particular, tax incentives for those with low remuneration re-establishment of entitlement to sick pay for the lowest paid multiple kindergartens, lower parental benefit in kindergarten and school leisure schemes, stronger investment in more educational homes and a new lending scheme for school books in secondary school more active policies to create entrepreneurial development and to offer those who are unemployed in the local economy with DKK 1 billion This is a different course from last year's budget settlement; it is a course for fairer distribution – the Labour Party's course. Then we can rightly ask: What is the government's course? Last year the government parties, the Right Party and the Advance Party agreed to provide tax relief to very high-income groups, while small children’s parents had to pay significantly more for school leisure services. This year, government parties and the Workers' Party agree to provide tax increases to very high-income groups, while small children's parents have to pay significantly less for school leisure services. Then, of course, the government can let it wave up and down year by year. But does the government have any opinion about what it wants? I have noticed that the president and deputy of the Central Party for the Prime Minister, Odd Roger Enoksen, has stated: ‘Part of the important tasks of society need to find their solution in cooperation between the Centre and the Ap.’» Among other things, he mentions: the distribution policy as an important example, as was also done by the Central Party parliamentary leader in the debate earlier today. But just after the statements by Mr Enoxsen, the parliamentary leader of the Left, Gunnar Kvassheim, went on to say that it is equally natural to cooperate with the Right and the Advance Party. And that has been the review tone – also on the part of the Prime Minister. In today's debate, the Prime Minister was challenged by SV's Kristin Halvorsen on what goals and visions the Government has in addition to sitting in the offices. The first Prime Minister pointed out the need for international assistance and solidarity. Is this the case with the Right and the Progress Party the Prime Minister wants to strengthen the aid budget? Or is it with the Workers' Party? The next prime minister pointed out was the need for human relations and ethical attitudes. Is it with the Progress Party of the Government that will build values? Or is it with the Workers' Party? The government has to know what it wants and where it wants. It's very difficult to ride two horses at once. It's easy to imagine. There is a need for political alliances that can create a majority for a comprehensive and effective policy. Unfortunately, the state of political exception that now characterises the country does not contribute to action. We see that the government is looking for a majority and bending like a reed in the wind, as we saw in last year's budget settlement. And so it might have to be if a government with the support of a quarter of the Great One is to be able to sit by the power. But the country needs action. We are facing major political challenges. How will its petroleum interests be managed in the future? How should pension schemes be ensured? How can we create a fair distribution that is as fair as possible? How can we ensure the development of Norwegian business? How can we ensure all equal access to our new digital everyday life? These are some of the questions that need to be resolved in the very near future. Of course, the working party will help to find good and stable answers to these and similar challenges. But the Labour Party also stresses that if we want the goals, we must also have the will and the strength to use the tools to achieve the goals. Then it must be will and power for political governance, not a wait and see attitude. Take, for example: the last two challenges mentioned. It is of vital national importance that we ensure national ownership of important parts of Norwegian business. Of course, foreign investment is of major importance for the development of business. It is important to acquire international industrial competences, capital and market channels. Therefore, we must not initially see foreign investment as a threat. At the same time, it is crucial for a nation that we have a reasonable range of internationally competitive companies with their strategic home base in Norway, that essential parts of the head office functions lie here, that strategic and market developments take place here, and that key research and development efforts take place here. It does not necessarily assume that the company is Norwegian owned. But there will normally be a close link between ownership and location. In many industries, development requires greater volume and requires more capital. The number of listed companies is increasing by self-esteem and mergers. Norway is a small country with limited private capital. At the same time, we have significant public capital. We should therefore have an open relationship with the fact that the State can enter the owner's side also into large groups other than today. It has not been said that the State should be in large shareholdings. More limited investments may also help to safeguard national ownership. The Workers' Party's proposal for an investment company in which the State shares private interests in offensive investments in the business community is an important measure in this context. But we can't just wait and see. Then more groups are sold out. We have to act, and it's fast. At the same time, we have to admit that it is not just ownership and office address that matters. One of the most important is that Norway has to appear as an attractive country to operate in. Then we have to have a high level of competence. We have to bet on education, as is done in the budget agreement. We need to bet on research. The Workers' Party's proposal for a national research fund is very central here. We have to bet where we have good prospects for success. We must invest in marine research, medical research and environmental research. And we need to keep a high level of research in information and communication technology. At the same time, we must let the future get ahead. For example, we have to. ensure that telecommunications regulation is so forward-looking that the latest developments can take place here with us. If the neighbouring countries open up the innovation before us, as unfortunately has happened, among other things. in the case of the next generation mobile phone, development work will take place there and not here in Norway. Then I'm on the second theme. We are in the midst of a revolutionary revolution in the opportunities opened up by the new information and communication technology. The Workers' Party will ensure all knowledge of the new technology, including: by strengthening the school. We want to ensure all access to the machines, including: by strengthening the public libraries. And we want to ensure all households and businesses across the country equal access to the network that connects machines and information. It requires political governance. The more we are surprised that the government has informed Stortinget that there is no need for any state-owned measures for the maintenance of the network. In the view of the Government, the telecommunications market operators are able to offer the necessary capacity on a business-economic basis. The Labour Party does not agree. That is why, together with the Swedish authorities, we promoted proposals for the Storting to impose on telecommunications companies with significant market power the universal obligation of high-speed services and to introduce a maximum price regime for such services. The proposal was defeated. Both the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left voted against. They wanted the goal, but they wouldn't use the tools to achieve the goal. Then we've registered that the head of the Central Party and the government's municipal minister in the election campaign two months after all went into a national high-speed network. It gives hope for a solution. But what does the Government think? Yes, according to the Minister of Transport, the Government – where the Central Party participates – believes the same as before: this is to be done on its own. Once again, the government is becoming unclear. Once again, we are facing a problem of vital national interest. Again, action is required. It must be hoped that this year's budgetary agreement will help to form a majority capable of bringing these important societal tasks to a conclusion. If we as politicians are waiting for the future, tomorrow will be over before we discover it. Politics is not waiting for the future. Politics is creating the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1776	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1779	It surprises me that the representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen is so concerned about the many changes in the course of the central government when we know about the changes in the course that the Workers' Party has made in this period that we are now in. I could have used my whole line on that, but I'm just going to focus on one area: transportation, which is the subject area of Schjøtt-Pedersen at the moment. Now, statistics, whether we like it or not, show that the main flow of means of transport in the 1990s has largely gone to the central strata of the country, while District Norway has experienced the drought of appropriations. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to achieve a fairer and more entrepreneurial distribution of means of transport. We want to have the Workers' Party with us there. Let me say that I am pleased with the agreement we have now reached, where funds have also come into being in the field of transport. But the prospects are not bright if the Workers' Party is still on its election campaign to bet NOK 40 billion in the Oslo area in the next few years. What kind of course is the Workers' Party adding up? According to the representative, Schjøtt-Pedersen, at the press conference on 7 July this year, a new six-field Oslo-Asker motorway, built after the most expensive solution, is to be built at NOK 7 billion. Now he says that the road should be financed by the user. It seems strange to me that in Wednesday's Question Time, the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen said that he wanted to oblige the Minister of Transport to present Oslopack 2 without user funding being adopted in the states concerned. Then there is reason to ask: What course is the Workers' Party wanting to pursue in its transport policy? I ask Schjøtt-Pedersen to explain what he meant by the statement he made at the press conference, where he said that this bet should not go beyond District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1792	To the extent that there has been a change of course in the transport policy so that there should have been more investment in central lines than in the districts, it is interesting to note that in that case it has taken place under the government in which the representative Sahl’s party participates. And not only that, it's actually the way that the representative Sahl's party also has the position that's called Minister of Transport. At that time, the opportunities of the Christian People's Party to get a say in social policy should be unimaginably good. And if it has happened then that there have been reduced appropriations to District Norway in that period, it might be an idea that the representative Sahl had a conversation with his party representative for transportation in the government to discuss that matter. It is, after all, the Government's proposals that have been reasonably implemented in the Storting. But then it is that the Workers' Party is not satisfied with the transport investments. This is why the Labour Party has included in the budget negotiations a desire to increase investment in transport, both in road and in ports. And despite everything that has been said by the Right Party, the Advance Party and others about transportation, it is such that neither in 1997 nor 1998 a single krone came into contact in the budgetary agreements that were concluded. This year, after all, it came to a total of 100 million. kr. Although it's not an overwhelming amount, it'll be something more – also to Sahl's part of the country. Then the representative asked Sahl if they were so-called NOK 40 billion. Let me first show that that amount is set by the NRK as a compilation of the current budget appropriations, local contributions and self-payment over a period of 15 years. So the sample that has been set up by the Workers' Party has provided that there is no requirement for a change in the regional distribution. The way Sahl specifically pointed out is provided for 100 pst. user-funded. But I would like to know whether the representative of Sahl and the Christian People's Party is against the Eastfold package, which has been submitted today, whether he is against Oslopakt 2, whether he is against strengthening the development of the railways in Eastfold and Westfold, if there is at all any project that the State intends to finance among those that the Workers' Party has in this package, which the Christian People's Party is opposed to. In that case, I will find it extremely alarming.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1804	The representative Schjött-Pedersen was concerned with long lines and the need for action and stability. I have a specific question for Mr Schjøtt-Pedersen in line with the fact that he was a fiscal spokesman for the Workers' Party for the last four years and was also on the financial committee during the examination of the tax reform in 1992. During the 1992 tax reform, there was a broad consensus on the need to reduce marginal tax, extending the tax base. During the period that Schjøtt-Pedersen was a financier of the Workers' Party, he fought with beaks and claws against budgetary arrangements and tax arrangements that have great similarities with what is now agreed in the conciliation. I refer to the fact that the Senterpartie actually promoted a scheme in Stortinget in the autumn of 1996, which very much resembles the current scheme with a third step of the top tax at that time, with a minimum deduction that had a profile of low-wage groups or persons with income below NOK 160 000. It suspiciously reminds me of the arrangement that the Workers' Party is now saying is their arrangement. Why was Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen against the 1996 profile, which the Workers' Party now says is their redistribution profile? Not Karl Eirik Schjøett-Pedersen sees that the biggest attack on what happened in 1992 is that the marginal tax actually increases by nearly 6 p.p., which is going to have all the negative consequences that high marginal tax had in the past, namely that there are more and more people trying to get away from taxation in that income group and who are going to find out in other creative ways to get their remuneration. Indeed, at the top of that marginal tax, the employer’s tax, which is particularly high in the same groups, is approaching a marginal tax that is higher than in the old tax system for these income groups.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1813	I mean and I think it's important to have a stable tax reform, and I meant and I think it's important to keep the marginal tax down. But what has happened? In fact, after a broad agreement was reached on the tax reform, a compromise was reached between the Right and the Advance Party and the current government parties on significant reliefs in tax reform, which, of course, resulted in the entire distribution profile contained, among other things. in relation to the divisional model, changes were made to the arrangements agreed in 1992. It was then that the overall distributional effect of the tax system was partially dramatically altered, from what was foreseen by the Labour Party Government, and what was provided for also in the settlements entered into in the Stortinge in the treatment of that reform, and which, to some extent, were also on parts of the Right. And then a situation arises where you have to raise the question: how can you correct the imbalance that occurs when, for example. The split-model ceilings are lowered to an unreasonably low level of 28 pst. tax instead of 49,5 pst. tax? Then you have to find other grips for which it is possible to get a majority. The Labour Party noted that, overall, there was a need to take action that could contribute to a fairer distribution. It's not like that proposal for a third step is the only input that has been in this discussion. The Labour Party has had a lot of suggestions in this debate that you would like to discuss. And if the right has alternatives to the current third step, they would have to bring it. I am convinced that the Workers' Party's financial fraction is open to discuss it. But as long as there are no other options, this is an opportunity to restore some of the distribution effects, even if you haven't come as far as the Workers' Party would have liked.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1822	I listened to the line change between representatives Schjøtt-Pedersen and Jan Sahl, and I thought that perhaps I was the right person to be the judge in the dispute about who is the worst district policy in the matter of transportation, because the downturn of the part of the country from which the representatives Schjøtt-Pedersen and Sahl came, and which I also come from, began at the beginning of the 1990s when Kjell Opseth took over as Minister of Transport. At that time, North Norway had 25 pst. of the investment funds on the road. So it went down. During the center management, it's still going down, and now they're at about. 12 pst. in that part of the country. They can therefore share responsibility to this extent. But the center government hasn't done anything better. They've made things worse, and I'm therefore a little excited about this budget deal. They have some unplaced funds, but if they put all the funds in North Norway, we are far from the level we had at the beginning of the 1990s – the time when they actually invested a little in roads in that part of the country. You don't get any railway investments there, so it's like the road we have to rely on. Both the Labour Party and the Central Government have done a very bad job here, and it's actually done without any political debate. If the representative, Mr Schjött-Pedersen, can now promise from this chair that he will use the negotiating power that he has – because negotiations are now taking place between the Labour Party and the Central Parties in the Committee on Transport – to rectify what is going on in the next year's budget, I shall be pleased with such a statement from here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1829	If the representative Myrvoll asks if it's 75 million. kr of national road investments will all come to North Norway, I am afraid that I will have to disappoint him. But I do not ignore the fact that there will be measures in that part of the country as well as in other parts of the country. It has been a starting point to look at how we can use the funds so that we get more rational progress on projects that are in progress, and they distribute fairly across the country. We have challenges in terms of transport and road development in the north, like in other parts of the country. When the representative Myrvoll points out that in the past a much higher proportion of the total road infrastructure in North Norway compared to today, I think it is important to bear in mind that, fortunately, part of the road clearance projects that have been important since then have been solved, and that task has actually been carried out. There are other projects in line, but the most important ones have been taken, while new capacity problems are emerging in other parts of the country. I think it would be very dangerous to say that you have to have a static distribution of roads between the different regions. There is a balance between the fact that in some areas there is no way out — and where one has to try to do it — that in other areas there is an unsatisfactory quality, for example. by having racial problems and by having a capacity problem in some areas, and not least in central areas, e.g. roads out of Oslo, where there are 90,000 cars passing every day. It is not then possible to close your eyes because there are different challenges in different parts of the country that all require their solution, and then, overall, a balance must be made on how resources are to be deployed. That's exactly what we have the Roadmap and the National Transport Plan for, and we'll have plenty of opportunity to do something with it from March and beyond in the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1838	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1841	It is a challenge for the Government to raise budgets that focus on prevention rather than repair. Expenditure on repairs — such as: Health and justice budgets have a significant feature of — increasing in our country. A budget based on prevention is not only a budget that will reduce expenditure growth in the long term, but also a budget that helps to prevent human suffering. Art and culture have a clear self-esteem that I will not in any way underestimate. But the cultural budget is also one of the budgets that represent prevention. It is difficult to quantify the level of prevention per year. billion, but the contexts are simple, logical and familiar. We know the relationship through e.g. a major project on health and culture — a project that will now become more firmly established because it turns out that cultural self-activity strengthens mental health. We know that young people who are engaged in healthy cultural activities have less chance of getting a criminal racetrack, and thus burdening the justice budgets less. The government has seen the important link between culture and prevention and has therefore chosen to present a cultural budget with an increase greater than the average budget increase. Both my predecessors in the Minister of Culture chair and I have learned that the cultural budget is vulnerable when budgets are to be balanced. For the Government, solidarity, security and innovation in a simpler Norway are important keywords. Action on culture is important in order to move forward in all these areas. Art and culture contain all the forms of expression that are needed to increase our perception of the situation of other people. Therefore, a living cultural life and a cultural effort are important in order to facilitate the choice of solidarity among all crossroads. In our society, the information flows over us at a rate that is both slow and sluggish. Refugees characterize many people's everyday lives. We have to prevent everything from becoming a revision of life. Culture is a cure for volatility. Culture gives us root fasts – it's security-creating and a ballast that makes it easier for us to master everyday life. At the same time, culture is a good driving force to help the uprising in us, so that we get insight and power to change society wherever necessary. Cultural tolerance is essential for harmony and conflict prevention, both within and between nations. All experience shows us that it is not the melting crucible, but the respect for the good mosaic that prevents racism and hate development. There is the lack of willingness to accept cultural differences that cause much of the violence and suffering we see around us. We probably have an untapped potential here to increase interaction and reduce conflicts in our own country as well. Internationally, it is developing an exciting recognition that culture is an increasingly important engine of innovation and sustainable economic development. All over the world, we see that regions and communities are falling behind, because industrial productions in the past have had their time and fall away. Poverty is developing, and the need for reorientation and innovation is great. What we often see is that the areas that focus heavily on culture are those that get up fast, because people regain self-confidence and become creative to find solutions for today's and tomorrow's tasks. Cultural surface gives a colorless world. We don't want a world where no one can tell whether we're in New York, New Delhi, Cairo or Oslo. If we're going to be able to maintain cultural diversity, we're going to have to restrain it. For our part, we must take care of and cultivate our cultural characteristics. This is demanding in a world where the forces of standardisation are very strong. If we are to be able to exploit the art and culture's potential in a social context and prevent cultural unification and marginalisation, a conscious cultural policy must be pursued. The Ministry of Culture must become a department with policy and not money management as its primary task. That's why I hope the Storting will give you the acceptance to move a number of administrative tasks out of the ministry and into the Norwegian Cultural Council, as we have proposed in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1874	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1877	It is good to be allowed to reply to the Minister of Culture in the budget debate without compromising the support for the press. But that's one thing we'll get back to in the next few months. I'm going to take one of those areas where it's clear that culture is still a conflict area, but where I think the new Minister of Culture has some special prerequisites to address the problems we have, in order to get a proper offensive cultural policy. Then I think of the conflict that is clearly between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Culture. In order to meet the challenges that we have as a small language and cultural community, we need to take advantage of the opportunities that commercialisation, after all, gives us. We can't be overrun if we mean anything about Norwegian cultural policy. There we also have common challenges with the rest of Europe, and there are today several countries that have done this job and that have done very well. Swedish and Danish films and music are examples of this. In Norway, the only programme to steer this thinking was abandoned, and the ministry responsible for Norwegian culture abroad is currently far too poorly exposed to Norwegian culture. Then I think first and foremost of the interesting area that is commercialized, and not of the culture that is sometimes used as decoration. Can the new Minister of Culture take action on this issue and get a more offensive cultural policy, where we are also able to use the commercial market both domestically and abroad, and thereby help prevent Norwegian language and culture from drowning because we lack the ability and understanding to see the challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1890	With regard to the press support, as the representative Alstad mentioned at the outset, it is right that we have ample opportunity to come back to it when the sample we are running has delivered its report in April. With regard to the possibility of a greater focus on Norwegian culture in commercial terms, it has different aspects. I don't ignore the fact that there are more opportunities to bet on cultural exports than what we've seen in recent times. I am ready to look at the possibilities that lie there, but at the same time I think we should not have excessive hopes of what it is possible to achieve. But it makes sense that we have a cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade on these issues. I'm probably seeing even greater opportunities to use culture more offensively as a bridge builder in relation to other countries, and that's enough where I want to spend the most energy in months to come, to bet that we can get more activity in the relationship between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Culture, that we can both use Norwegian artists more abroad and bring foreign culture to Norway to a greater extent. This should be linked. My answer to the representative Alstad is: Yes, I am ready to look at the opportunities that lie within the commercial area, and I will do so. I have some limited hopes of what it is possible to do, but I want to use most of my energy in the first place, to look at the opportunities that lie in enhanced cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1901	State Council Haga is also the Vice President of the Central Party. This budgetary debate has essentially focused on the positions of the various political parties, not least before the next budgetary procedure. We have heard before this debate that whatever happened now, the Central Party had to go to the Labour Party next time to enter into budgetary settlements, i.e. in practice for the rest of the period. We have received other signals from representatives of the government parties in this debate, namely that that issue is not settled and that it is open. It's actually so open, we got the understanding that it's more open now than before. What does the Center Party even mean? If the state council Haga wants to make a contribution to the mosaic, we'll be happy to accept it. I understood the ideology, without going into any cultural policy issues in the Hagas State Council posts, as open, international and prejudiced. When I read a chronicle by the Center Party leader about ownership, I don't see the same openness. He is raising a retired Norwegian manager, whom he claims primarily had his loyalty linked to the owners and his own status. His company became so large that it grew larger abroad than in Norway. There are two perspectives. One is that it is of course that the headquarters should still be located here, so that foreigners should be managed from here. The other perspective could be to see it from another side, namely that the headquarters should be located in the country where the holding is the largest. It would vote with the open, international perspective I realized that the Haga Council of States preferred, and an open, international perspective cannot be confined to the cultural area. Therefore, I would like to hear her view of what is now baptized «Tünnethism».
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1919	The representative Foss' first question was about collaboration constellations. My starting point here is that we're going to be ready to cooperate with the parties that are closest to us when it comes to the problems that the Center Party wants to focus most on. When we want to use the whole country, it's clear that we want as a starting point that we want to cooperate with the parties that are engaged in doing the same thing in that area. When we are concerned with international solidarity, the same principle applies. When we in the Centre Party are concerned with distribution policy, the same principle lies at the heart of it. It also does so when we are concerned about environmental policy. And that's what's so blessed about being in the center, that we're in the center, and that we have the opportunities to cooperate in different directions. So we want to work with, as partners, the parties that are closest to us when it comes to prioritizing, among other things. the areas I mentioned. With regard to the open, international and prejudiced approach of the Centre Party, our starting point is that we are open, international and prejudiced. But there's a difference between culture and business. Rather, it is a problem that we tend to link the two things too much together in the process that is taking place internationally, which is a process of globalisation. No matter what your goals are at stake, and what definition you use, it is a problem that the globalisation process is predominating culture. And we don't have to get into the situation that we put so much emphasis on the economy that we actually preface the culture.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1928	It was very right to listen to the Minister of Culture. There was no lack of good words in her posts about how important art and culture are, and I'm absolutely sure those words were serious. Neither did it lack beautiful words about the importance of art and culture for the entire development of society, how important this is for quality of life, for tolerance, on which the Council of State was involved, for society and for the individual's ability to develop creativity and opportunities to participate, to get experiences and challenges, and – not least – the importance of art and culture for the knowledge society of the future. And I have to say, I was very happy when I heard in the interview with the new Minister of Culture when she was appointed in the fall, that she proclaimed that art and culture need a billion-dollar promise. In reality, art and culture are being eaten away with buttons and glossy images, seas – and I will admit that culture was a budget winner in the harvest. But then it was cut in the conciliation, and there's nothing strange about both the film people and the cultural life else is in Harmony. I believe this is an expression that when you go in and cut, the culture is still a glaze that is ironed over the cake when your competitiveness is assured otherwise. That's why I want to challenge the Minister of Culture: does she think that the 45 million cut – or, for that matter, the 300 million we present today extra to art and culture – would have anything to say for the temperature of the Norwegian economy? Doesn't she agree that these millions mean a lot to art and culture? The Council of State agrees with SV and cultural life that the area really deserves at least 1 pst. by the State budget? And how will the Council of States achieve that goal? At least she has to cooperate with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1938	I agree with the representative, Valle, that culture in large parts of the Norwegian population is too much regarded as a glaze. We need to build an understanding of how important art and culture are, among other things. for business-related innovation. For those who absolutely have to base an economic consideration, we need to explain how it is, for example. Clear connections here. I am therefore concerned that we should work together – many – to build an understanding of the importance of culture and art in our society. As Minister of Culture, of course, I should have seen that I had a much bigger budget to settle with. I think we should be able to develop a lot of good culture for the means that we have. What was the situation in Stortinget was that we had to reach a budgetary settlement within a sound financial framework, and then it was also cut off on the cultural budget. When it comes to whether you should have your own percentage going to culture, I don't think that's the right way to think about it. I think it's in other ways that we're going to fight to an understanding that we have to bet on culture beyond laying a certain percentage on the foundation. And it's like it's in the social spheres where there's pressure from below, that a thing to get political attention that eventually turns out in budgets. So here too, the cultural sector itself has a job to do in terms of representing the pressure from below that is necessary to make culture become something other than glaze.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1950	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1953	Following the 1997 elections, policies in many areas have gone in the wrong direction, as we in the Labour Party see it. There has been a policy that has led to increased privatisation, to more tax havens for the rich, to a bet in private schools and to more injustice. This has been done by the Government in cooperation with the Right Party and the Advance Party. We have disagreed with that development, and we have tried to work against it. Now something has happened that's interesting, that the government parties are now saying that it's only in the hands of the Workers' Party that it's possible to achieve a fair distribution. And it's clear that when we get those signals, it allows cooperation. That is very good, and it is gratifying that we are now reaching a budgetary settlement and a budget compromise. And we see that one after the other of the government parties' representatives go up to the pulpit and almost chirping with joy at what has come to that agreement. They're very happy that they're getting an increased stake in school, in the local economy, in the school leisure system, and that we're doing our best to take the first steps towards a fairer distribution. So now they're very happy to be in cooperation and compromise with the Workers' Party. The reason why we could be involved in cooperation and in discussions was, as said, that the Government wanted and gave signals that a fair distribution was important to them. But if the government parties are then to have the least trustworthiness left for posterity, it will be impossible for them to go back to the pattern of cooperation with the Right and the Advance Party. Then it must be impossible for them to go back and cooperate with the parties that stand for the opposite development of what we have achieved in this budget. In this debate, I think that the representatives of the Right in particular have played a rather special role. We've seen that one after another, Inge Wohnning, Jan Petersen, Børge Burnde and the whole of that crowd, have gone up here and felt like sloppy freers, and have tried to tell the assembly how much better everything would have been if you had laid the Right Alternative Budget to the bottom. There would have been a lot more focus on education, research, roads, etc. But what is the case is that for two years before this, the Right has actually had the opportunity to put its stamp on the budget, and they have put their stamp on the budget. But then there has not been any commitment at all to what the Right now says is the most important thing, namely education and research. Then there have been roads, and then there have been defenses. It is possible that there are reasonable bets, but I have to ask: what has happened in Norwegian schools and Norwegian communities that have changed so completely since last year, and that makes the tone a completely different one now? Now it's education that's in the first row, while it wasn't mentioned and you didn't do anything in the comparisons you've had in the past. On the other hand, the current budget for education has been cut, and the framework for education and research has been reduced. In fact, they have tried to defend themselves in this debate that it was not cut off the education itself, it was cut off the school leisure system and things that really don't have anything to say about the quality of education – so it cut them off then, and the increase we get now, really doesn't matter that much, but that there are other things that are important. But I'm surprised that you can use this argument. Of course, it is possible to have the idea that the school leisure system is just a bit agile and ugly that we don't need, and that it is better that the kids go home to locked doors, etc. It's probably possible to mean it. I disagree with that, but it is probably possible to have such an opinion. But if you mean that, and you cut that appropriation, like you did last year, why didn't you put that money into increased investment in other areas of education? Why did you just take it away and give it to completely different things? It can't be that the school is getting better just to cut off the school leave system, so you might have to spend that money in education in a different way. Likewise, with the bet we now get on free schoolbooks in high school. It is clear that it is important in relation to equal rights to education to ensure that the cost of going to school does not prevent anyone from taking the training needed. So there is also a rail argument that I feel the representatives from the Right have been driving along all day. The truth is that in the last two years, the Right has had the opportunity to do something, to get a stake in education. They haven't done anything, i.e. what they've done is cut those budgets, and now it's suddenly become the most important thing in the world. I don't understand what's happened, since it's changed so much. But the truth is, it was only when the Workers' Party got an intervention in the budget that they got a boost for education.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1969	The Minister of Finance presented the government budget on 4 October. Allow me to ask: what is the situation of Restad's colleague, Finance Minister Daniel N. Yona, in one of the poorest countries in the world? Imagine that for a moment you are in his shoes, as Minister of Finance. You want to do your best for your country, for the people. Your main instrument is the budget, but here you are facing a significant funding gap. To cover the gap, you either need to raise new loans or get more assistance. If you're lucky, you'll get it, but on terms. For all the donors set their own particular conditions for building the hospitals and roads that your country needs. They will demand to use their own experts and technology, despite the fact that such commitment to supplies from the donor country costs the project with perhaps as much as 25 pst. You also recognize that, by accepting the terms of the donors, you will have to devote much of your and your department's time and resources to working on donor-defined tasks. You had to make quarterly reports for every giver. As Minister of Finance in Tanzania, you have to make 2,400 reports to the donors in the quarter, 9,600 a year! Indeed, each donor has its own national requirements for the design of the reporting process. The donors will also insist that you use their forms of accounting, regardless of how this is done in your country. All donors will want regular meetings with you and your employees, and you have to set up, often several times every day. Another aspect you need to deal with is the debt problems. In a letter I received from just Finance Minister Yona yesterday, he told me that he had to spend more money on debt servicing than on health and education together. For every dollar Tanzania spends on health, the country spends $4 on debt servicing. The same is true of education. A very large proportion of the budget, yes up to 40 p.m., is tied up in the servicing of the debt. The United Nations Development Programme, UNDP, has calculated that if the money spent on debt servicing by African countries in 1997, instead of being used to combat poverty, 21 million children would have saved their lives by the year 2000 and 90 million girls and women could receive basic education. Still, almost a third of the earth's population lives in deep poverty with less than one dollar a day to live off. Most of the world’s finance ministers have such challenges to deal with every day. It's not an end in itself to make a finance minister's everyday life easier. But it's a goal to do more to make the poor in a country like Tanzania feel better. That's why the government has set itself three goals to do something about it. This is also reflected in the draft budget for next year. Firstly, the coordination of all donors. We just have to put the whole way we're doing assistance. We have to settle the flags and self-interests and put the results first, results for the poorest. By coordinating us as donors, we're going to get more efficiency and more assistance for every penny. We can't afford to waste a single dollar! Here, much is being done internationally through coordination initiatives under the auspices of the World Bank and the United Nations, initiatives that are beginning to deliver results at country level and for which Norway is driving. Second, we want to do something to get rid of the debt. We need to get rid of the U.S. debt. Here, the Norwegian debt plan from May 1998 has meant a good deal. It is now gradually being followed up. Multilateral debt relief mechanisms such as the so-called HIPC initiative for the poorest and most indebted countries are also included. The initiative covers all types of liabilities. At the Cologne Summit in June this year, the G-7 countries took the initiative to improve and extend this mechanism. Debt should increase, benefit more countries and be significantly faster than before. The proposals were later adopted, with strong Norwegian support, at the World Bank's and the Monetary Fund's annual meeting in September now. After this, Finance Minister Yona will be able to cope with a significant improvement in the debt situation for her country. But the initiative is not yet fully funded, and there we are now in a critical phase because of the U.S. Congress decision last week not to give money to this very trust fund in the World Bank. Together with other like-minded countries, we will, in months to come, discuss with the U.S. administration how to deal with the situation that has arisen. The US has a clear responsibility to participate with significant funds in the comprehensive debt cancellation measures through the HIPC mechanism. Thirdly, we want to step up assistance. Both the World Bank and other actors are well aware that debt cancellation and debt cancellation have little meaning without more aid resources coming to the poorest countries. It is therefore essential to reverse the trend towards a reduction in international aid. It stopped in 1998, and we'll have to wait and see if it increases in the future. The OECD Development Committee carried out a review of Norwegian development policy last autumn, stressing the importance of our active aid policy being supported by a concrete plan to step up assistance. The IMF has also supported this. This year's budget proposal is the start of such a escalating plan with NOK 660 million plus, to GBP 0.89. of GNI. The government invites this Stortinget to join the plan of escalation, so that the assistance can reach 1 pst. by GNI in 2005, in favour of the poorest at the turn of the millennium.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1995	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e1998	Councillor Frafjord Johnson had a thorough review of the draft budget for next year in the aid sector. It is true that the budgetary agreement between the Labour Party and the Government parties has not only led to a better domestic policy of distribution, but also to a significant strengthening of Norway's role in global development policy, at least if we compare it with the budgetary procedure a year ago. At that time, the government and state council Frafjord Johnson had to endure considerable cuts in aid both to Africa and to our neighboring team North-West Russia, following pressure from the Right and the Advance Party. I would like to ask the Council of State: has it not been shown in recent years that the consensus on solidarity with the poorest and the weakest lies between the centre and the Workers' Party? The Prime Minister repeatedly stated this morning that the central government will cooperate both on the right and on the left as it fits. But how does it compare with the emphasis of the Christian People's Party on contributing to a policy in the international community in which everyone is gradually guaranteed benefits such as education, health and clean drinking water, which are the basic needs both of the MUL countries today and of the new poor in Russia and other post-Soviet areas? I would like to refer to parliamentary leader Thorbjørn Jagland, who earlier today asked: Is block-dependence also independent of values? I think it fits particularly well with North-South policy and solidarity with developing countries.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e2009	The tradition of the Centre Parties and the Workers' Party has been long in terms of solidarity with the weak and the poor. I therefore agree that the community is strong and comprehensive in this field of cooperation and in our respective parties. Although it's nice to hear that Norway's role in global development policy has been strengthened, and in all modesty I might be able to join it, I'm not sure if it's only happened in the last months or the last year. I would like to stress that the 1999 budget was actually maintained at 0.88 p.m. of GNI. But the representative is quite right that there was a hollowing of this in relation to refugees. But in the international context, the aid actually amounts to 0.88 p.m. for 1999, and it is actually such that the accounts for 1998 showed 0.91 p.m., precisely because we were able to use more of the transferred appropriations than has been the case in the past. So in international terms, I think we're just as strong. At the same time, of course, I am pleased with the agreement reached in the budget for next year, and there is no doubt that the community is so strong between our two parties and between the centre parties and the Workers' Party. However, I think it's worth stressing that it's about the priorities of the respective parties, and it's the strength of the priorities of the individual parties that determine whether or not compromises go beyond the poorest. In fact, I believe that we can be relatively satisfied that, through two fiscal years, we have been able to make a settlement with the Right and the Advance Party without reducing the percentage of GNI in the aid, despite a considerable pressure – without going into any detail about it. I think it's a good thing to get the Advance Party to vote for 0.88 pst. in assistance. It has the Christian People's Party and the Center all right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e2020	The Party of Governments would like to appear as a warm defender of aid to the world's poorest. Then I expect the Christian People's Party to agree with the Right that trade with the least developed countries is one of the best means of promoting economic development. However, the problem is that the system of duty-free imports of beef from the poorest countries into Norway has the advantage that if the import quota exceeds a certain threshold, protective measures can be taken by imposing customs duties on the meat. This protection mechanism is designed to achieve 96 pst. the consumption in Norway shall be Norwegian beef and veal. And if this is not enough, the government will introduce an auctioning principle for these imports, which will act as a safeguard measure for Norwegian beef and will make it more difficult for the poorest countries to sell their meat to Norwegian consumers. The right-hand side disagrees with this. However, the auctioning principle gives us the opportunity to come back to the aid debate on Thursday to the week, but I expect from the Storting remarks that the Council of State can confirm that the auction principle will not be implemented until further notice. The issue now concerns, with reference to the WTO debate earlier this week, whether the Government will assess whether the volume of imports of duty-free beef can be increased before customs duties are imposed, as requested by the Right with the Progress Party and SV from 2001. I am referring to the fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is in favour of the Right's proposal to bind zero duty on MUL meat in the WTO negotiations, as proposed by the WTO Director-General. And under the motto ‘trade, not Aid’ I therefore ask whether the Council of State and the Government are positive to increase the duty-free import quota on MUL meat from 2001?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e2033	Me and the Government agree with Frost Sterri that trade is important for developing countries and an important source of income for poor developing countries. This is also why Norway has a very generous GSP system for duty-free imports from the MUL countries into Norway where the beef meat is included and also includes Botswana and Namibia, which are not MUL countries. What is quite clear is that there is no quota regime, as the representative Frost Sterri indicated in his reply. The GSP mechanism contains a security mechanism that occurs in the event of market disruptions at a certain level. What will be the situation from 1 January 2000 is that one could have imports up to the level defined as the level of market disruption; it is not an increase in the ratio. Imports may increase up to what can be defined as a kind of ceiling where the mechanism can occur. It is therefore not possible to indicate any level of imports. Imports can be made up to this level, so the level of duty-free imports of beef into Norway has not yet been reached. With regard to the auctioning principle, we will come back to this, as the representative Frost Sterri quite rightly said, in connection with the consideration of the suspension of my presentation in Stortinget next week. But of course, I would like to say from the Government that we will take note of the Storting's comments, and it would then be a natural consequence that the auction principle will not be implemented from 1 January 2000. What I would also like to stress is that, in preparation for the WTO round, we in Norway have also signaled quite strongly that we want to contribute to improved trading conditions for developing countries, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs also indicated in his statement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e2045	I might add to the previous round of replies that you have never been close to filling the quota contained in the security mechanisms, and once again, what I also underlined in the WTO debate is that Botswana and Namibia are not MUL countries, but they are within this security mechanism. It may be worth noting when discussing imports from MUL countries in general — in width — that Botswana and Namibia do not have MUL status or least developed countries. However, I have another question for the Council of State, and it is related to the relationship between predictability and the need to take political considerations into account in aid matters. If we look at what is happening today in a country like Zimbabwe – we will also come back to this in the debate on Thursday – there is reason to be concerned about development, and there is reason to ask a question as to whether an active country should continue to cooperate with a country such as Zimbabwe, which is governed by a despot. What I would like to ask the Council of State is whether, on the basis of the military and political situation in individual countries, she can imagine holding an opening for alternative use of the same funds, I am thinking first of all of a possible distortion of funds that are currently going to land-cooperation, to regional allocation or, alternatively, to multi-bi or multilateral organisations, which can then go in and continue to support the vulnerable target groups in order to prevent the immediate cessation of aid. In this way, we can prevent a stop from going beyond the poor who are receiving this assistance. I want to remind you of what happened to Vietnam, where the construction of a boat was practically stopped in the middle of the builder because of the political situation. [[President clubs]] Other mechanisms must be available. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e2054	The President requests that you stay within the measured speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e2057	I will refer to the budgetary proposition promoted by the Government, just in answer to this question. There are three countries that we have expressed a very clear concern about. It's Zimbabwe, which the representative was in, and it's the two countries on the Horn of Africa that are now at war with each other, Ethiopia and Eritrea. There we have done exactly what the representative Nybakk was about to do, by reducing the allocation of rural programmes and transferring it to what is called regional allocation for priority countries. There, of course, they will be used by these countries if the situation improves. Fortunately, it is a somewhat positive development to see in Ethiopia and Eritrea for information for the Storting. We'll see which way it goes, but at least it looks positive right now. However, this means that the use of these funds in other countries can be more flexible if development is not to be achieved. With regard to the situation in Zimbabwe, I would also like to point out that there are some indications that people are taking their own action. There is a new party based on the trade movement in Zimbabwe, which is proving to be relatively strong, and which, with the debate that is now taking place around the new constitutional reforms and forthcoming elections, can carry the germ into a positive direction. We also have to follow that closely in relation to what we have indicated in the budget. So it's possible to use these means either way. We are also concerned with an attempt to convert Zimbabwe, where we are taking more assistance for human rights and democratic development, and where we are trying to find channels other than those of the state. We think it's necessary the way the situation is now. Multilateral channels will, of course, also be an option in several countries where this may be the case.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e2068	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e2071	In the course of the preparation of the road and road traffic plan in spring 1997, there was a unanimous collapse in the construction of a new tunnel in Bjørvika. Yes, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party even opened up to use more for the Bjørvika expansion than the workers' party government provided. I would therefore have wished that in this budget we had set aside project funds for the Bjørvika tunnel, that we could already give the start shot to the construction of the tunnel, so that we could avoid any unnecessary delay. Those who were most afraid to delay the construction of a new opera, should be the first to be busy getting started. The proposals of the trade unions for a national transport plan, presented earlier in the autumn, state that construction of the Bjørvika tunnel cannot be justified on the basis of a value in terms of transport policy. Fortunately, it is only a proposal that can and must be corrected by the political leadership of the department. If not, it will at best be interpreted as an attempt to train the decision on Bjørvika, and in the worst case, one would think that the government wants to re-occur on location – but I don't think so. I expect the government will follow up the broad consensus that has until now marked the will to speed up the construction of the tunnel in Bjørvika. There is also agreement in Oslo on this. The facsimiles are based on an outdated attitude towards transport policy that is out of date. What is the value of transport policy? An estimated 420 people die in Oslo every year because of suspended particulate matter, does it fall outside the phatetate’s thought paths? In the past, 90 people were assumed to die each year from contamination in Oslo. That researchers have now come to 420 people, should get someone, and especially traffic bureaucrats, to think about. That's dramatic numbers. Traffic exhaust is one of the causes of the deadly suspended dust that affects many thousands of people, especially young children, sick and elderly. It is quite clear that the Bjørvika tunnel will help everyone living in Oslo, and especially in Old Oslo, which is a very densely populated city. It is my hope that the Government will also include these assessments when they present the National Transport Plan for the Storting. The best thing would have been, as said, that something was said about Bjørvika in this budget round, in order to avoid uncertainty among all those who for various reasons are concerned about and need this tunnel. Not least, it is important for those investors who want to invest in Bjørvika. Oslo Municipality has done its job, and as I understand it, there has been some agreement between the City Council and the Ministry of Transport, so that the Bjørvika Tunnel can be among the priority projects ahead. But I would also like to remind you that the Bjørvika tunnel was initially a transport operation from the Municipality of Oslo long before it was decided to add the new opera house to Bjørvika. The operating decision led to us placing the Bjørvika tunnel further on the priority list. The construction of operas and plans to develop the area has therefore come after the Bjørvika Tunnel was placed on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e2089	Most of the parties in Stortinget have realized that the school needs more money. We might think best of the physical environment of many of our schools, where there are crowded classrooms, poor indoor climate and worn-out rooms. The working environment for pupils and teachers is poor, especially at many of our secondary schools. The conditions may be worse at many of Oslo’s schools, where the Labour Inspectorate has recently completely or partially closed several schools because the conditions were directly harmful to the health of the students. It is the municipalities and county that are responsible for primary and secondary schools. State funds for the financing of primary schools are mainly transferred into the framework grant to municipalities. The same applies to secondary education, where the State grant is included in the framework grant of the county municipality. When many municipalities have reduced their working capital to primary school, it goes beyond the quality of school and affects both pupils and teachers. Then you can ask yourself whether local politicians don't care about the school, and that's why it becomes the balancing item during the annual budgetary procedures. I don't think so, but maybe students, teachers and parents have been too patient. The Labour Party believes that the most important thing we can do in the short term is to increase the free income of the municipal sector. In this round, they're increasing by 650 million. kr. That'll give over $800 more per. pupils in primary school. Then it remains to be seen how the municipal politicians will use the funds. Teachers’ organisations had preferred the funds for primary school to be earmarked; they have poor experience with today’s framework transfers. One is clear, we need to invest resources and actions in many areas in order for students and teachers to get a better day at school. The right has some good suggestions for strengthening the education sector, but there is little going to strengthen primary school, and that is where, in my opinion, the needs are greatest now, especially in the case of high school. The weakness is also that none of the funds go to the municipalities. On the contrary, the Right Local Government Budget is weakening by reducing government grants to school leisure schemes. They are proposing to increase the resources for the training of teachers, which is important, but they also require a municipal proportion. The right-hand proposal does not enable the municipalities to contribute. They will increase the number of hours in primary and middle school by one week and thus feel that the need for school leisure arrangements will be reduced. It is a mere wishful thinking and does not in any way correspond to a reduction in the state subsidy of about 10 %. One-third. This reduction is a downturn in school leisure provision. Children use the school leisure system both before and after school, many of them until their parents’ working days are over. It means almost nothing that in a week they have one hour more education. This is an unusually poor reason for entrusting most of the funding of this scheme to the municipality and its parents. I am pleased with the budgetary agreement with the government parties. We have agreed on most of the reforms in the education sector, and we have a common goal of developing and improving the single school. We also know that the Right Party and the Progressive Party have other objectives for their school policy. That is why it is good that they do not have any influence on this budgetary procedure, and I hope that we will also be able to avoid it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e2113	Budjsett-inst. S. No 1 for 1998-99, the members of the Committee of the Workers' Party shall state the following: ‘These members indicate that price increases affect price growth. These members believe that the outlook for the Norwegian economy next year suggests that one should be cautious about charging increases that contribute to further price increases. The special cost developments and the risk of an international setback suggest that Norwegian business is facing major challenges in the coming years. The working party is therefore in favour of significant improvements in the charging scheme in relation to the Government’s proposal. In total, the Workers' Party's proposal for charging arrangements provides for some 2,9 billion reliefs. crowns in relation to the arrangements of the Government.’;» The government's budget has a tax increase of SEK 2.9 billion. The working party increases this by 600 million. NOK 3.5 billion. In response to a reply yesterday, Tore Nordtun said that there are dramatic times for his county, which will hit thousands of jobs. Is it not close to expecting that the signals sent out in the 1999 budget debate were at least continued for the year 2000? The next year, the crisis will be a complete blow to business. Obviously, the Workers' Party has not understood any of this. In the state that Tore Nordtun and I come from, we already see frightening examples of what's about to happen. And at this stage, the Workers' Party is choosing tax increases and thus making it more difficult for Norwegian businesses. The working party was also quite clear in the last year’s debate when it concerned the increase in the electricity charge. It would hit the weak, and it would hit the families of children. I can mention for the Workers' Party that approx. 50 pst. the flow turnover in Norway is free of charge. Industry has exemptions, and Finnmark and Nord-Troms counties have exemptions from this fee. By also increasing the mineral oil charge, the heating companies with mineral oil may, if appropriate, turn the heating from mineral oil to electricity, where they have a tax exemption. The result may be the exact opposite of what the Government expects, namely a reduction in power consumption. If we look at Norway and the EU as a whole, our country is over 30 pst. by hydropower, 45 pst. of the gas reserves and 75 pst. of oil reserves. We have 1 pst. by the population. Real energy production in Norway in 1998 was 3000 TWh, and we exported 92.5 pst. of this. In 1998 we received 6.12 cents per cent for the sale of oil. kWh, and for the sale of gas we got 6 cents per. kWh. Apart from coal, Norway, with 4.4 million inhabitants, has almost the same energy as the EU’s 375 million inhabitants. Today we sell gas to the Netherlands. There they built the world's largest gas power plant, and we buy this power back again for between 12 and 20 cents per. kWh. I actually don't think the molars had been able to take care of themselves like this. On the right-hand side, we have submitted a Document No. Eight proposals, which I now hope the Labour Party will finally support. It is about to open up to build gas power plants in Norway. I hope someone from the Workers' Party can say a clear and loud yes to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e2133	The Right and the Progressive Party have said throughout the debate that the Labour Party has little left for the budget agreement we are now in. It's nonsense. This is an agreement that means a lot too many people here in the country. This means that the municipalities, where the whole population of Norway is known to live, can now offer a better education and health offer, that 200,000 employees who earn very little will again be entitled to sickness benefits from 1 January, and that 622,000 people will benefit from the new salary deduction introduced next year. This also applies to pensioners who have relatively low pensions, and in addition have some labour income. These were some examples. There are many more. Now, large groups who have little to walk with will get something better at the expense of a few who are making a lot of money today, having to pay something more in taxes. That is what the Workers' Party believes is a fair distribution. The Workers' Party has strengthened the municipal economy with approximately NOK 1 billion. It could have been more, but it's good. The difficult situation of the local government sector is shown in the 1998 result, where the operating deficit is estimated to be as much as DKK 6.7 billion. It is the worst in ten years and is a result of the cooperation between the Government and the right. However, to the surprise of many, the Government did not put any effort into the municipalities in the budget for 2000. For Eastfold County Council, the increase in the budget agreement means something more than DKK 8 million in free income. By using these millions for hospitals, the new transfers with today's health care income system will trigger an additional DKK 8 million from the state, and a few thousand more patients will receive treatment for the next year in relation to the government's plans. It is essential for those suffering and suffering who are waiting for treatment. The Labour Party has been given an agreement that gives the Minister of Labour and Administration a very good starting point for a good labour market policy next year, which can meet the problems that arise when more people are outsourced and terminated. But the Council of State's commitment to these groups was in this room yesterday in no way convincing. It doesn't promise well. The Government recognises that labour market measures are effective. It's in the budget. Nevertheless, there was nothing to do with extra measures next year. But it has now been corrected by the Workers' Party. We're going to have 4,000 more action sites. Then the Council of State should be optimistic and committed and enter the difficult job of qualifying the unemployed, so that they can defraud the job vacancies. When the Prime Minister in his speech today spoke about permitations and ‘a certain depopulation’, there must be reason to ask about the world in which the Prime Minister is located. Let me give you an example. When Aker Verdal with 1,100 employees today, in a built-up community of 14,000 inhabitants, is going to cancel a whole 350 and also permite 200, and the Prime Minister calls it "a certain" depopulation, I'm starting to wonder in what reality the Government is. I think those who work and live in Verdal or other places that are so heavily affected by the problems in the shipbuilding and offshore industries, now are afraid that they will lose their jobs and may have to move. The government had not intended to do anything about it, but now they have been helped by the Workers' Party to address this problem. Finally, every year the right has been subject to charges, not least the party has flagged high that the border trade is a problem because we have too high taxes on alcohol and tobacco compared to Sweden. I agree. That's why I'm very surprised that the Right now, when they're out of influence, goes so high on the track in relation to the border trade. Why didn't the Right do anything about this problem in the two years they had influence and could do anything? The Labour Party has agreed in the budget agreement with the Government to come back to this in the revised national budget, and then we will see what we can do then.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e2152	There has been little focus on health so far in the debate. For patients, it means much that one in the 2000 budget follows up and continues the major health reforms and action plans adopted. The escalation plan for mental health will be followed up by 408 new million next year. This gives optimism to users, user organisations, personnel and municipalities. It is noticed that mental health is put in focus. October 10th is the World Day for Mental Health. Never has this day been marked this year. The motto was «Time of openness». And greater transparency is also important in the escalation plan. It's said that the stigmas that are still attached to mental illness are the last big brand in our century. At the beginning of a new century, it is important to remove these. It is written daily about hospital crises. Increased resources next year will provide room for treating more patients and short waiting times. Intervention-led funding – ISF – has had some start-ups. At startup, the registration of patients and diagnosis was deficient, but it has now improved. Several hospitals have reached the ‘cryp limit’ this year. Then an average price per tonne is given. patients. This may lead to a treatment of patients based on what pays off financially and not on medical needs. To avoid such a twist, the ‘creep limit’ is raised. Together with an expected increase in the DRG index, this will increase payments to hospitals, even if the unit price is slightly reduced. The Christian People's Party is pleased with the huge increase to ISF of 695 million. So kr, that's about 700 million. kr, and that an estimate has been made, so that hospitals are guaranteed payment for increased activity. ISF provides hospitals with better incentives to look at costs and identify bottlenecks, better patient flows and finances. In addition, SEK 0.5 billion more to new equipment next year will allow for more efficiency. The government has invested heavily in our hospitals and in the recruitment of health professionals. It is then a crossroads that numbers from SAMDATA show that in 1998 only two new patients were treated per year. week for each new member of staff. It is important that you continue to work on the organisation of our hospitals and take care that health professionals do the tasks for which they are trained. I am glad that the government in its budget proposed to lower the claim for sick pay back to 1⁄2 G. The agreement with the Workers' Party makes this possible from 1 January onwards. This change is important not least for part-time workers and students. The year 2000 will be the third year of ageing. The initiative is in progress in the case of increased staffing and the number of nursing homes and nursing homes. The size has made great demands on the municipal action plans before the earmarked grants are paid. There has been some concern over the demand for activity growth. I am pleased that there are now only six municipalities that have not received the earmarked operating grant for 1999. These funds have helped to further develop the care of older people in municipalities and have improved the quality of service. It is important to look at the individual needs of each. User-controlled personal assistance is a service that has been tested for six years, with good experience. Help is adapted to the needs of the disabled. The budget is increased by 10 million. kr next year and results in 700 users getting help. It is positive that this scheme should be legislated. Today's welfare arrangements in our country can, of course, be improved, but I am glad that at the beginning of a new millennium, together with the Workers' Party, we have prioritised increasing aid to those who have little or no welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e2175	One possible reason for the low turnout in the autumn may be justified doubts as to whether politicians are able to solve the most important public tasks, so that we can meet the most basic needs of the population. This concerns in particular the safety from violence, together with health, education and communication. The majority policy on the Storting has become unclear, because the state operates a bit of everything, but without doing the most important thing first. It is not possible without a stronger priority for some areas rather than others. Everyone wants serious crimes to be investigated and resolved quickly. No one shall wait unnecessarily long for judgment or for the commencement of acquittal of punishment, and the content of the punishment and follow-up shall subsequently allow for a law-abiding life. But this is not possible without the whole criminal chain being seen together, and the justice sector as a whole is being allocated more resources than today to remove bottlenecks. Therefore, the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre is disappointing: We know that the police's free means of operation are heavily under pressure – that has been clearly stated by the Minister of Justice – but these are the means by which the police can, or cannot, move out when something happens. That's why the right set at 100 million. additional to free operational police resources, together with more money for training and more money for the Narcotics Police Association, because it does an important prevention work. Budgetary agreement between the Labour Party and the Centre, on the other hand, cuts in a pre-negligible police budget: We know that the Tromsø courts lack premises to execute the trials, and that a start-up grant is now crucial. That's why the Right has found $10 million more to get started. But the majority of the budget has not made it clear.We know that there is a lack of funds to implement individualised rehabilitation of prisoners. So the right-hand side has a priority of 16 million. kr to it, twice as much as the budget majority.We know that there is a great lack of funds for post-closure protection, and that this is critical to preventing relapse or detecting new crimes during the probation period. The right-hand side has a 5 million priority. kr for this – the budget compromise is nothing. Nor did the budgetary partners find it possible to give priority to the launch of the new resource department at Trondheim Kretsinzel, a resource department for prisoners with severe mental illness and with a high shortage of suitable prison sites. The right is impressed by the work of the Fangers Family Association, and we are genuinely concerned when, in consultation with us in the Committee, they inform us that they have difficulties in continuing their operations. If prisoners are to be rehabilitated, programmed and motivated, we need someone to help them through the process and meet them when they get out. No groups are as important here as the relatives. That's why the right priority is 1.2 million. kr to their work. Finally, we have to train more prison officers, and both the YS and the LO associations are crystal clear of the desire for an additional class at Prison School to 6 million. kr is the top priority. The right has prioritised it in our budget – the majority of the budget does not. In total, the right has increased the criminal care effort by 36 million. kr, while increasing police activity funds by 100 million. kr, the training of police officers is increased by 5 million. kr, and we get to start building the court in Tromsø by 10 million. kr. Training of police officers is important. In the last year, the size of the population has adopted a number of new laws and practices to be used by the police to achieve better results in the fight against crime. At the same time, we are facing reorganisation and increased demands for management responsibilities and results. How are we to do this when it is cut at the same time in the policing school for the same people? Priority is given to key voluntary actions, such as the work of the Narcotic Police Association in detecting and informing young people about drugs. Not even one million to this end have been clearly supported in the budget compromise, nor do they support the important student law aid measures, where one million are crucial to the level of activity. This concerns advice to people with poor advice and has an enormous impact on legal certainty for those concerned. The government has made this budget harvest a judicial policy choice, a choice to give priority to justice policy. That the Workers' Party does that is nothing new. They have been cutting the judicial budget for several years, especially the police, so when the Labour Party becomes a budgetary partner, this is the result. But on behalf of those who are concerned with the fight against crime and the right of ordinary people to fundamental security, we are just hoping that the next fiscal year will end differently.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e2230	Today we are discussing fiscal policy and the budget for the first year of a new thousand years. This should probably have produced the policies of the long lines, with more visions of what we want in a longer time perspective than just a one-year budgetary period. Many demand greater predictability and stability, while changes at all levels of society go very quickly and in such a way that many feel powerless. Early in the history of Storting, it was proclaimed that all power would be gathered in this hall. We know that reality is different. Market liberalism with its capital forces is the main cause of this both locally and globally. Even within the concept of cooperation, not least in the context of so-called globalisation, we see that this is to a large extent happening on the premises of these forces. The centre party has been accused of being manageable and, in the opinion of some, more than that. I think we all have to take inwards to become more knowledge of governance and take more account of developments, if there is not to be a little polite judgment on the last decade's political environment and systems when this is to be evaluated and evaluated in a historical perspective. I think it is rather worrying that we have had such a turn of power and influence that there are now largely representatives of the stock exchange and stock market being used as truers in relation to whether our country has a healthy and proper development. The advice and point of view of these professionals must also be heard, but measurement must be far more than this and the point of view much further. If we want a society of balanced development, which takes account of one another and shows solidarity in the broadest sense, we must include all the facets of society. Not least for the weakest terms, those that need the most help and support. The centre party raised the issue of differences in Norway during the previous growing period. Several in the political environment were not willing to meet this challenge. In particular, the Workers' Party was negative and described the Centre's involvement as black paint and crisis maximisation, claiming that we did not have such a difference in our country. The central government and the central party of the social minister have now demonstrated, by submitting their anti-inflation notice, that developments from 1986 to 1997 show a clear difference, where, with the highest incomes, they have improved their incomes and living conditions dramatically, while with the least incomes they are lagging behind in relation to an average wage trend as well. This is a solidarity challenge we face as we enter a new century. Of course, we are also facing other major challenges. We need value creation and life base, but here too, in solidarity with future generations, we need to be more cautious about the resource base and living conditions not to be so burdened that we make our descendants a totally losing group. Perhaps we should pay more attention to the words of Einar Schrärasen and Albert Schweitzer in our political exercise for the future. We need material management and development, but it must not be overshadowed by growth fanaticism, which ignores long-term management and smoothing. If we are to have a safe and healthy society for the future, we must draw with all of us and give a future for everyone. In contrast, inequality and poverty will develop dissatisfaction and disease. The challenges are in the queue, and we can take the first ones already in winter when dealing with the defrosting message. A follow-up of this will show whether we have enough will to show solidarity through system choices and priorities. The central government will, among other things, also provide two other key monitoring messages this winter: ‘Care 2000’ and ‘Health 2000’. Through these major and comprehensive areas of action, we must promote respect for the individual and the understanding of Community responsibility. In this totality, it is a matter of giving the individual the possibility of self-expression and autonomy on the basis of their own assumptions, and such a situation of life shall also provide a meaningful opportunity to contribute to the community. If we are to do this through our social system, we must have a fine-skinned network that takes into account the value and needs of individuals. Then, in my opinion, the solution is not even larger administrative units and a one-sided focus on «rational» units. I think transparent units of knowledge and knowledge are the solution for the best possible public administration. But then I think we all have to take more inwards that such a quality society costs. The centre party wants a strong public sector, in cooperation with the voluntary effort that is indispensable to many levels of society. But such a strong and quality-assured public sector needs resources in its external offices, and I hope that it will have a stronger impact on government budgets in the future, as the importance of the local government sector is being given greater priority and attention.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e2260	Some have characterised the budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Workers' Party as a turning point in Norwegian policy. The agreement has also been called historical. I am also in favour of the agreement, even though part of it is still stuck in the throat, namely the cash support. The fact that the agreement represents a turning point in relation to the last two years is no doubt. However, I'm a little presumptuous about the characteristics of history. In my view, it is too early to draw such a conclusion. Let me stress, however, that I have a strong desire for it to be, but it is evolution in the future that determines whether it will become something more than a parentheses historically. The most joyous thing is that it has created a positive climate between the center parties and my own party. There is no doubt that the best responses to the challenges of Norwegian society can only be found through such cooperation — at least this is the election period. It has been absolutely essential that I also try to swallow the cash support to the best of my ability. The fact that the Minister of Finance, too, said yesterday that such cooperation is a prerequisite for a better distribution policy, is worth noting. I sincerely hope that he has the entire government with him. However, after the Prime Minister’s statements earlier today, there is reason to doubt it. On questions from Jagland, he failed to answer directly if he supported his Minister of Finance. He also underlined that the Government would continue what he called a ‘steep course’ — a course of continuous swings, to the right and to the left. The words of the poet, "squattering, waving, know where to go" are a good description of such a course. Some of the main challenges we face are described in the so-called Cohesion Communication, which we are dealing with in the Storting. Over the 1990s, there has been a trend towards increasing differences between those who have more than enough and those who have too little or nothing. The positive turn that may result from this year's budgetary settlement is a small beginning on a heavy road if we really want to do something like monks. In a reply to the Prime Minister, Kristin Halvorsen said that we can eliminate poverty if we want to. I agree. That's the will it depends on. And we have to take heavy thanks if we're to succeed. Among other things, we must: to take up a debate on the distribution of resources between the public and private sectors. Otherwise, in my opinion, we will experience that the community services are getting worse, as it grows up private offerings to those who can pay for them. Already today, doctors are prepared to repair beauty flaws and remove wrinkles on people with payability, while others have to wait in play queues – if they can afford the excess. It is also about cohesion. And strengthening public services must take account of the balance of the Norwegian economy and be done at the expense of private consumption. It will require both strong political backbone and broad political consensus to take such firmness. In the world's richest countries, thousands of people are totally dependent on direct emergency aid to survive in everyday life. Someone has claimed that maybe as much as 7-12pst. by Norwegian households live in poverty. 250 people come daily to the Saviour's slumber station in Old Town in Oslo to get food. The settlers and beggars are a daily sight in our capital. Against this background, it was disturbing to hear the Prime Minister insist on the objective of being the main challenger of the Labour Party. And when it came to the possibility of cooperation with the Workers' Party on the Cohesion Communication, he could not, as I understood it, say it more clearly than he did not overlook such cooperation. I mentioned at the outset that the cash support is still stuck in the neck. And when it is constantly claimed that the Workers' Party put itself outside because of it, I have to remember that, after all, it is about 3,000 million. kr per. years. Now we see that just 3 pst. several parents stay home with their children as a result of such huge use of public money, it should be easy to understand the resistance of the Workers' Party. Think of what we could do if the money had been used for the benefit of all the kids in our community. Finally, I would like to express great pleasure at the fact that we will now implement the grant scheme for non-governmental organisations adopted by the majority of the Storting in June. It was both with disappointment and with wonder the Workers' Party registered that the Government had not followed this up in its submitted budget proposal. There had to be strong pressure on both our side and the organisations to get it in place. Nevertheless, I would like to commend the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party for constructive participation. Now we hope that there will be no more curfew on that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e2277	The Christian People's Party has been and is concerned with family policies and child-growth conditions. The approaching millennium provides a good starting point for reflection and discussion, not least a rethink of what are the important and fundamental values that we need to take care of if we are to further develop a good and warm society. The century we lie behind has been marked by major changes in the private sphere. Increased gender equality, female participation outside the home and a well-developed provision of care for children outside the home are clear developments that have changed family life in Norway. This development has led to a lot of good things, but has also given us, as we like to call postmodern people, new challenges. These challenges take the Christian People's Party seriously. Gender equality, including independent father rights, the continuation of cash support, full child care coverage and child welfare for new age groups, are good measures to meet the challenges of the future for families with children. A wide range of optional schemes for families with children is one of the strengths of the year’s budget. Recently, the Christian People's Party has received the 'honour' for the new feminist debate in Norway. Cathrine Sandnes, one of the editors of «Matriark», said during the launch of the book in the fall that the feminism debate has partly flourished again because of the Bondevik government, which holds the cash support torch high. The equality debate is a debate that needs to be debated over and over again. We who have followed the gender equality debate over time know that. I am pleased that the Christian People's Party has also contributed to the raising of the awareness of new generations of men and women. In this light, the cash support debate is of great importance for more than the children who enjoy more time with their mother or father. It has also led to increased awareness of human dignity. The purpose of the Government is for all bodies to work on equality in their fields of competence. For example, the Government wants more women to enter leadership positions. It is more difficult to adopt gender equality at home. But something can be done to facilitate father’s participation in the home, as well as what is done to stimulate mother to positions of leadership outside the home. In this year's budget, we take one long step in the right direction in this area by giving fathers the right to birth and adoption money based on their own earnings and job breaks. This is an important reform primarily for the children, who have the opportunity to make better contact with their fathers. Several fathers will be able to enjoy closer contact with their children at an early age. We are also very pleased that, in our budgetary cooperation with the Workers' Party, we have found room for 8 000 new kindergartens, and we are looking forward to the government submitting a kindergarten message in a few weeks. The Christian People's Party aims to give parents freedom of choice in relation to child care. Cash support is legal. Now there's still to be full babysitting. The Christian People's Party is not satisfied with family policy until full child care coverage is achieved. Child welfare is over-mature for revision. Child welfare stops today at 16 years of age. The vast majority of children go to school and are cared for by their parents even after they have reached the age of 16. The child’s dependants’ obligation under the Children’s Act is 18 years of age. For the vast majority of families with children, child-restraint remains the main transmission system. The government has been criticised for reducing child welfare per year. a month in order to be able to extend child benefit by two years. I think most of those who have young children now will be glad that they get child welfare even for the 16- and 17-year-olds when that time comes. In fact, families with teenage children have not necessarily paid off mortgages and student loans. Apart from the period of nursery expenses, there is probably no period that costs families with children more than the years with teenage children in the nursery, with the need for books for high school, food, clothes, cinema tickets, etc. It is such that no government budget can adopt happy nuclear families and safe children. Luckily. But we have a responsibility to facilitate good growth conditions in the context of new cultural conditions. That is what we have done in the budget of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e2300	The next speaker shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e2303	I'm not going to undertake to give a summary of the debate on next year's budget after these two days. What can be concluded, however, is that the decision we will take in a short time, in my view, will lay the basis for good development in our country next year. In my speech yesterday, I spent some time on the division of labour in economic policy, and I made it clear that, in my view, the fiscal regime has fulfilled its part. The other area I mentioned was the income policy, where I underlined the responsibility of employers' organisations and employee organisations together with the board of directors to avoid weakening competitiveness. In this context, I would also like to point out and stress the call made by the Minister of Finance about moderation in his speech yesterday. Similarly, I would like to mention the Prime Minister's intervention today, where he expects the organisations to follow up what they agreed on through the Arntsen selection when it comes to the future development of income – and that on this basis one must find ways to give priority to groups that need extra attention. I started my article yesterday by showing that in a few months' time we will be entering a new thousand years – and that there should be reflections. Of course, in a ten-minute article there will only be an estimate of such reflections, when one is going to enter into the reality of the budget at the same time. I'm happy to accept that. But what I stressed about giving a handshake to the poor in a worldly context was a small attempt in that way. If you go to the source of the word economy, the Greek language, you find out that it means administrators. And that's just what I think must be one of the important thoughts of our economic policy – we're going to manage, or if one will benefit from a good new-nosed word, household. We're going to have the resources at our disposal. Maybe this could be a dot, if not a summary of the financial debate in the autumn of 1999.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e2319	Several have not asked for the word –
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e2322	Yes, President!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e2329	However, that was not the sentence suggested by the Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e2332	It was a good try, but I actually think there's a couple of things that should be linked at the end. I think there have been some particularly interesting articles, among others. On one side Steensnæs and on the other side Tom Thoresen. I mention Steensnæs because he so clearly admitted that the so-called block-independent government has actually had the Workers' Party as the first election in budgetary cooperation three years in a row. The difference between this year and earlier was that the Workers' Party said yes this time and no earlier. It is interesting to note that a government that should be independent of the block, i.e. gives the Workers' Party the first right to choose which block the Government should join. His logic for this was also striking, namely that it is because the Labour Party is the largest one to do so. Everyone knows that the Labour Party will also be the largest until next year, and so the Labour Party will also be the preferred party next year. After all, the Labour Party is in no way satisfied with the government's conduct. Ichland was very sharp in his review, and Tom Thoresen made it very clear that if you haven't moved so much this year, the ambitions for what to move on are considerably greater to next year. As you can imagine, this year's budgetary cooperation is in many ways a kind of introduction offer that Tom Thoresen obviously sees to be followed up with ever-closer political relations. But what then becomes the jumping point, is the question I allowed myself to ask Tom Thoresen, and that is, how long will the Workers' Party find out that there is a junior in government? That it is the Workers' Party that in this cooperation will become the heavy and large partner, is quite clear. What we've seen in this budget is that in some areas it's going in the wrong direction. Despite what the Prime Minister tried to say at the beginning of this meeting, we see that small businesses get worse conditions than they had. We see that the so-called distribution policy means that pensioners are not allowed to adjust their special deductions, that everyone, regardless of income, has to pay more in electricity, that everyone, regardless of income, who has housing, has to pay more in housing taxes, and that the small savers are hit by the removal of the AMS scheme. So this is the distribution policy. In this context, it is important for the Right to focus on another policy course, a course where we really get a boost for school, where we get a boost for building infrastructure, and where we get a boost for value creation and what this country is going to live on.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e2345	When this debate started yesterday, the committee leader said that this was the last financial debate in our century – and that is, of course, true – and that this should try to raise the debate, so that one could get a slightly bigger perspective than what might be common in a financial debate. My summary of that is that we did not succeed. This financial debate has been boring and has not, I think, rocked so many. There aren't so many people out there who have experienced what actually happened here. It's a little sad, because you should have used the opportunity here to come up with the visions we're going to have for Norway and the international community into the next century. This debate has simply been a little boring. The only thing I think will be remembered from this debate is that the Centre has entered into a new alliance with the Labour Party. Maybe you shouldn't underestimate that either. It could be that there are perspectives in it, perspectives we don't know about today. And let me be completely open about it: that perspective is a perspective that SV appreciates. I hope that, like many of our neighbouring countries, we will, in the future, establish majority constellations that go from left to centre. If you look at Sweden, Denmark, France, Italy and Germany, you will see that there are majority constellations consisting of centre/left. During this ageing period, it is not possible for SV to be the heavy on the scale that determines this, but we still hope that the cooperation pattern established through the year’s budgetary settlement is a perspective that points forward, even after the 2001 enlargement. The reason for that is very obvious. If we look at some of the questions that have been debated in the Chamber that go on fair distribution, that go on environmental protection and not least on education, it's just an alliance between the centres/left that will be able to solve those problems. My assessment is that the Right and Advance Party have contributed in this debate is to marginalise the right side of Norwegian policy, simply by having positions that are not visionary, nor are they of such a calibre that they will succeed in the future. What the world and what Norway needs are therefore no further tax relief – tax relief at all costs. What we need is a fairer distribution, a more solidarity policy, and that's the perspective we have to take into the new century. Our wish is, in other words, that what has been a boring debate, however, has the germ and the trace of having a majority solution established in Norway that has a visionary perspective that allows us to see a relative desire to go into the next century.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e2364	Jan Petersen came back to this with that the center parties for the third time chose to contact the Workers' Party first. So there's no difference between what we did this year and what we did in the previous two years. To put it this way: had it been a good reason to choose another strategy, and had there been an invitation in the signals that had come from the Right and the Advance Party that made it a more natural choice to make, we could of course have done it. We have not received such signals, and I must say that in the budgetary proposals with which the Right has followed up, the economic distance in important areas of the centre parties is greater to the Right and the Advance Party than it has been to the Workers' Party. But we'll see. Next year, a budget will be dealt with again in Stortinget, and we will carefully consider the signals that are coming. I confirm what I have said that each year we have assessed how we should start the negotiations. There has not been any automation in it, but it is true that sometimes it has been justified that when there are no other good reasons, a person can start from the largest lot and start there. Then Jan Petersen says, "It's going in the wrong direction." That's what I think is a completely wrong way to sum up both the country's economic situation and this debate. On the contrary – it goes in a very positive and good direction. We have a situation where interest rates go down, we have a situation where the currency is stable, the petroleum fund relies on it thanks to the fact that the oil price is «all hour high», we have a unemployment rate that is low, but worrying in some sectors – we admit and want to do something about it – and we also have a price increase and a wage increase under control. Everything indicates that the country is within one of the most positive periods. And I like to think, regardless of the opposition and position, that at least we could agree on that description.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e2376	Who would have thought a few years ago that we should hear a central government stand summing up its second year, in front of the third, by boasting that the oil price is «all hour high». It was at the time they complained that oil production was too high. Who would have thought that the Value Party Christian People's Party would sum up a debate by also embracing the market – yes, this was a relatively monopolistic market, then, quite rightly – by saying that the oil price is «all hour high», everything is going well. I would like to say that we have no reason to be fundamentally dissatisfied, but there are some factors that are actually not going so well in Norway. We focus less on knowledge and education than most countries we can compare with in our part of the world. We have less technology in our exports than our neighboring countries have. In the field of research, we have been slowing down in relation to our neighbouring countries, even in relation to Finland, which has been struggling with such fundamental economic problems. This doesn't turn out exactly this year, nor next year, nor the year after, but then it comes. Then it is of little benefit to a ‘value politician’ to sum up by pointing out that everything is going well because the North Sea money machine, based on investments for five to ten years, brings us great income. It's kind of superficial. I also just want to say that it is not right as Mr. Steensnæs still says that the distance to the Right's budget proposal this time is greater than before. He has no evidence of that in actual numbers. And he himself met with the Right Budget proposal when it was presented, saying, "It was as expected." I don't know what he had been waiting for, but I assumed he was waiting for something on the basis of what came last year, and he's quite right in that. If I were to highlight two features that are actually different, it is that this time we supported the government's municipal council, but we also had problems with that. In return, this time we were higher on the education side, about the same amount. None of this should be insurmountable problems for the Christian People's Party. So Steensnæs finally says that the distance was greater to the Right and Advance Party than to the Workers' Party. Yeah, how in the world can he know? The Labour Party has not presented a single alternative budget this time. They have gone right in negotiations, and in negotiations you can probably always experience the distances bigger. But let me say that last year, it wasn't – according to my memory – the Christian People's Party that we had the biggest problems in getting to a settlement with, it was a completely different party that finally triggered what became a consensus, and that party just spoke to the representative Steensnæs, the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e2389	Just so we agree on what we disagree on: when I said that there are some things going in the wrong direction, it's obviously about the content of the budget and some of the ways that this budget shows. I think that's not what Norway needs. But when Steensnæs talks about the economic situation, among others: the way the interest rates have taken in this country, yes, then I must immediately agree with him that there is a direction that has been right, and it has been very positive to point back to, and whether that I think Steensnæs and I can agree. But what's so strange is that because this year we have had a good budget line adapted to the situation, and the government has boasted of this, not least throughout the election campaign, and the Right has been involved in creating this budget, so the Government finds out – because it's doing so well, because so many things created by the budget in 1999 point the right way – that it has been necessary to change partners. That's the kind of logic that I think Steensnæs also have a little bit of difficulty communicating. That's when we thought maybe it would be right if we had built on the success of the current year, and continued with such cooperation later on. Now Per-Kristian Foss has taken a good look at the question of our missing invitations. It is quite right, as it is said, that our budget line is quite exactly as it was last year, except for the two areas in which it should be easy for the Christian People's Party to be involved. It can't be a problem if you put yourself on the same municipal framework and that we have a bigger stake in the school. I would also like to remind you, when he says there were no signals, that on the night of the election I suggested to all three government parties that it might be interesting to sit down and talk about long-term lines to try to build us together. Sponheim responded positively to it. However, among other things: From the Einar Steensnæs side it has been absolutely quiet, completely empty, nothing. I think it's also useful for Steensnæs' own voters that you see that reality. I had hoped that Steensnæs would be as responsive as Sponheim was. There has been no lack of invitations from our side. Then I want to end by saying that last year I read the Steensnæs insurrection paragraph for the Right and made it very clear in the Newspaper that if you didn't agree, it would have dramatic consequences for a hope for a new non-socialist government. Of course, we took it seriously, and we agreed. So there's no consensus this year because the government wouldn't even talk to us. And since Steensnæs has the word after me – does he see as seriously this lack of consensus this year as he did last year, when he read the insurrection paragraph for us?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e2402	The Christian People's Party has a very clear national meeting decision on government cooperation. What happened last year gave cause for concern, for there were signs that the Right could imagine going completely different ways in cooperation, to throw the government that was sitting by the power. We thought that was a very problematic signal, and I said that. I think to the extent that the debate can now be concluded in the positive spirit that I perceived that Jan Petersen included in his last speech, namely a desire to approach each other in positions and priorities. We have been able to see that in the three budgetary rounds that we have put behind us in this period, when the financial framework of the year is adopted tonight, the Right has, through its priorities, quite a distance from the centre of the parties. I repeat what I said before, that in the economic context of important political priorities for us, we have been closer to the Labour Party than to the Right and the Progress Party. It's a backside of the medal that Jan Petersen wants and likes to show when it comes to betting on roads, research and education. That's the way the Right wants to fund these in and of course the good purposes, which are unacceptable to us. I've mentioned it before, and I'm not going to repeat it here. I have not wanted to sum up this debate by pointing out that the oil price is «all hour high», I just point out that this is the case. It's not ruled by the Government. Everyone knows that these are international trends. But it has the positive effect that the oil fund, the petroleum fund, is investing in such a way that we can see the future safer when it comes to serving the obligations imposed on us by a rather ambitious pension scheme. I want to replicate to Jan Petersen regarding the research: it's true that we're worried about research, and the government has taken the consequences. Of the areas that have been prioritised in this year’s budget, research has just been highlighted and has received a very positive response in the research community. I have here an article of Jan Petersen's party trap, Kristin Clemet, where it says, "Lilletun kept the promise." And where she has a very positive summary of what the Government has now taken on, to create a smaller distance between research in this country in relation to what the OECD countries are doing. It should be a shame to everyone in this Chamber that we are actually below the average for research in the OECD countries. Then I'd like to repeat that rose to the Right and the Advance Party that I understood Petersen would hear once more. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e2415	The President stresses that the rose is given overtime. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 - 3. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e2425	The vote will take place at the next voting time on the items on agenda No. 18, which has been treated in the last two days.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e2431	The President proposes that the Minister of Finance's statement on the 2000 national and state budget be annexed to the minutes of the Grand Duchy meeting on 4 October 1999. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e2439	Case No. 2 applies to the budget-inside. S. I. Case No. 2 a total of 18 proposals have been put forward, and these are included on the 175-178 pages of the vote. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 3-7, by Siv Jensen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 8 and 9, by Per-Kristian Foss, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 10-15, by Øystein Djupedal, on behalf of the Socialist Left-wing Party, no. 16-18, from Steinar Bastesen. In the vote that follows, the President will start with the proposals from the smallest fraction and move forward after increasing size. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16-18, by the representative Steinar Bastesen: Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a plan for the renewal of the fleet of self-rescue and modernisation of the shore-based industry in the context of the revised State budget for 2000.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to provide appropriate information to the Government on the measures it intends to take to resolve the problem. research on the problem of unsafe landing data and what can be done to improve the data base.’» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to assess these appropriations in the revised national budget for 2000 with a view to restoring the allocations for 1999-level security training for fishermen.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e2486	: Votes are given on the proposals No. 10-15, from the Socialist People's Party: Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘For the treatment of the State budget by the Grand Duchy, including the public interest for 2000, the following framework for appropriations is laid down in accordance with the breakdown into framework areas adopted by the Grand Duchy on 19 October 1999 and supplemented on 16 November 1999. Framework No. Rammesum1State administration11 356 978 0002Family and consumer28 886 059 0003Culture2 172 297 0004Exchange13 743 356 0005Justice8 256 391 0006Inmigration, regional development, housing and labour10 044 395 0007Day money etc.11 316 400 0008Defence22 103 039 0009Industry3 672 018 00010Fischerry497 215 00011Agriculture14 191 291 00012Oil and energy 46 509 195 00013Environment2 649 786 00014Distribution to the community sector55 625 00015Social and health27 754 264 00016Folkering, social and health care148 268 850 00017Education and research29 626 823 00018Education and transport18 028 495 00019Ramme grants to the municipality sector55 014 000 00020Fair charges and revenues4 244 00016 00016 00016Folkering costs, social and health297 000transactions - 568 000 Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up rules for a certain proportion of the petroleum fund’s share capital to be used to purchase larger shares in individual companies. In those companies, the fund shall use the voting rights of the fund’s shares, inter alia, to promote employees’ rights and the environment.’;» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘Up to 60 pst. the loan framework of the Husbank can be used in the first half of 2000. The loan framework is considered to be increased in the Revised National Budget following an assessment of the application entry of the Husbank in the first six months.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The SND grant framework and the framework for the 2000 loan growth are set in line with the Socialist Left Party's remark in the Budget Final. S. [[1999 - 2000]] I Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to reintroduce policy-driven interest rates into the State Loan Fund for Education’. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the interest rate in the State Treasury is set at 4,5 pst. from the end of the year.’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e2716	: The proposals are then put to the vote. 8 and 9, from the right. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘For the treatment of the State budget by the Grand Duchy, including the public interest for 2000, the following framework for appropriations is laid down in accordance with the breakdown into framework areas adopted by the Grand Duchy on 19 October 1999 and supplemented on 16 November 1999. Framework No. Rammesum1State administration10 850 267 0002Family and consumer28 959 915 0003Culture1 522 927 0004Foreign affairs11 510 356 0005Justice8 349 391 0006Inmigration, regional development, housing and labour7 709 855 0007Day money, etc.11 545 000 0008Defence25 546 039 0009Industry3 286 018 00010Fiskerry437 215 00011Agriculture12 654 055 00012Oil and energy-47 385 195 00013Environment2 259 286 00014Distribution to the community sector45 625 00015Social and health29 955 674 00016Folkerry, social and health123 963 450 00017Education and research27 809 734 00018Education17 350 295 00019Facilities granted to the municipality sector45 296 499 000Facilible expenditure, 374 000,3 397 000,3 million,3 million, and 3-133 million. Proposal No. 9 sounds: «The granting framework and the framework for net lending growth for 2000 by the State banks are set in line with the Right-wing Notes in the Budgetary Section. S. [[1999 - 2000]] I
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e2927	: Proposals Nos. 3-7, from the Advance Party to voting. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘For the treatment of the State budget by the Grand Duchy, including the public interest for 2000, the following framework for appropriations is laid down in accordance with the breakdown into framework areas adopted by the Grand Duchy on 19 October 1999 and supplemented on 16 November 1999. Framework No. Rammesum1State administration9 653 730 0002Family and consumer30 410 805 0003Culture926 733 0004Foreign policy5 568 287 0005Justice8 704 591 0006Immigration, regional development, housing and labour6 671 265 0007Day money, etc.11 045 000 000 0008Defence25 611 039 0009Industry2 535 218 00010Fischerry270 715 00011Agriculture7 641 004 00012Oil and energy 48 096 195 00013Environment1 984 063 00014Distribution and health770 348 00015Social and health31 065 174 00016Folkerry, social and health145 096 450 00017Education and research25 991 515 50018Trafficking16 730 195 00019Facilities of expenditure and revenue35 174 00016 348 00016Tourage costs, social and social security3 337 000Tourage, social and health196 750 0002 million Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and propose an extension of access to investments in foreign shares to the Fund for Social Security.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose guidelines which effectively ensure that the basic amount of the public interest is developed in line with the general development of income’.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The Government requests the Government to make the necessary legislative amendments so that decisions on power plant taxation relating to the Innst. O. No 62 shall be deleted and the former regime shall be reintroduced.’; [[1995-1996]] Proposal No. 7 sounds: The government is asking for the reform of the Post BA, for the maintenance of the budget. The government is asking the government to submit a regulatory report for existing regulations, so that the cost of the regulation can be measured against the objective. d. the government asks the government to tighten up the rules and practices for the day-to-day payment. e.g. the government is asking for changes in the labour environment law § 58 a so that temporary employment is permitted. f. the government is asking the government to liberalise the legislation on voluntary overtime. g. the government is asking the government to improve the quality of life of the business and the economy is asking the government to make the compensation system for value added tax to municipalities and county municipalities in general. h. The government is asking the administration to change the management of Norwegian airports so that the airports are organised as the supply of the supply agency. g.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e3240	We are drawing proposal No. 5, as this will be addressed in the budgetary position of the Social Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e3245	There is an explanation of vote for proposal No. 7 from the Progress Party. It is a series of different structural proposals, many of which are identical to proposals that have previously been promoted. When these are promoted as a package, we are voting against them because we have chosen the method of promoting the kind of structural proposals in the positions of the individual sectoral committees.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e3250	: Then we go to voting. Proposal No. 5 has been withdrawn and the proposals Nos. 3, 4, 6 and 7 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e3265	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Progression Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend the rules of the Swedish Social Security Fund in order to allow the Swedish Social Security Fund to invest in listed shares in the other Nordic countries.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals in the Revised National Budget that Norwegian investors who own less than 10 pst. the shares of a company in another Nordic country may be deducted from the income tax on the tax paid in the other Nordic country.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e3285	You're going to have to vote over the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e3484	The President assumes that the Party of Advancement, the Right and the Socialist Left will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e3500	The President assumes that the Advance Party and the Right will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e3517	The President assumes that the Party of Advancement, the Right and the Socialist Left will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e3542	We're going to vote on case no. 3, and that applies to budget revenue. S. No 1 for 1999-2000. A total of 22 proposals have been put forward for this matter. It's: the proposals No 1, 4, 7, 14 and 15, by Siv Jensen, on behalf of the Group of the European Progressive Democrats, No. 10 and 11, by Siv Jensen, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and representative Steinar Bastesen, on the proposals No. 12 and 13, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Steinar Bastesen, no. 2, 5, 8 and 16 – 19, by Per-Kristian Foss, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, No. 3, 6, 9 and 20, from Øystein Djupedal on behalf of Socialist Left-wing Party proposal No. 21 by Mr Steinar Bastesen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats). 22, from Erik Dalheim on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left and the representative Steinar Bastesen. Proposals Nos. 1–21 is included on pages 136–164 of the setting. Proposal No. 22 is distributed in the hall. When voting on the present position, the President will refer to Section 19 of the Storting Rules of Procedure. It appears that once decisions have been taken on the financial envelope for the 24 framework areas into which the budget is divided, the amounts adopted may not be waived in the further examination of the framework areas. Such a decision was taken in the previous case, and as a result, some of the proposals currently put forward will not be put to the vote and will therefore lapse because they are based on framework amounts other than those adopted. It concerns the proposals Nos. 1 to 9 in the present position. Proposals Nos. Ten to twenty-one are independent of the frame, so these will be over. Proposal No. 22 provides for a correction to be made to the proposal for a vote concerning one of the charges under Framework Area 23, to which the President will return. The President first takes into account the framework-independent proposals. There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the representative Steinar Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government assessed, in the context of the revised budget for 2000, the reintroduction of the seafarer’s allowance for state losers.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e3588	There is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to assess the distribution effect of replacing the scheme with a dependent deduction to a scheme in which the State’s granting of child benefit is increased corresponding to the amount granted by the State in the form of a dependant contribution.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e3602	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16-19, from the Right. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for proposals for a national emission allowance scheme for SO2 early in 2000.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Grand Duchy asks the Government of the Revised National Budget in 2000 to present a exit plan for the product charge for aerated, non-alcoholic beverages.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The budget requires the Government of the Revised National Budget 2000 to present a exit plan for the levy on aerated, non-alcoholic beverages.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government asks the Government to make the following earmarked grants for the free income of the 2001 Municipal Economic Proposition: Chapter.221item 63 —Funds for the School Leisure Scheme Chapter.221item 66 —Funds for salaries, camper education Chapter.221item 67 —Funds for Music and Culture SchoolsCap.234item 60 —Funds for the dissemination of reform apprenticesCap.322item 61 —Funds for municipal cultural tasksCap.326item 60 —Mobile library service and library facilitiesCap.610item 60 —Funds for preventive and competent measuresCap.705item 60 —Recruitment with more of health personnelCap.705item 61 —Turnal service, further education etc.Cap.705item 62 —Intra-company education etc.Chap.1330item 60 —Taxation compensation scheduled carsCap.1427item 60 —Communal nature managementCap.1427item 62 —Funds for inter-municipal free air councils
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e3724	The President assumes that the Advance Party will vote in favour. The voting boards showed that 76 votes were cast against and 32 votes in favour of the proposals from the Right. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 18.35.44]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e3733	President! I voted wrong. I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e3738	Then the votes were corrected to 77 votes against the proposals and 31 against. With this number of votes, the proposals have not been accepted. The proposals are then put to the vote. 14 and 15 from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to present further investigations into alternative executions of the judgment of the EFTA Court concerning a differentiated employer’s fee.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The size asks the Government of the Revised National Budget for 2000 to propose that the annual fee be paid only for the part of the year in which the vehicle is registered.’;
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e3759	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12 and 13, from the Party of Advancement and the representative of Steinar Bastesen. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government of the Revised National Budget for 2000 to submit proposals to lower the tax on petrol used for the propulsion of boats to the same level as the levy on diesel used for the propulsion of boats with a view to its entry into force from 1 January 2001.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government of the Revised National Budget to submit a closure plan for the Fee on boat engines.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e3780	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10 and 11, from the Party of Advancement, the Right and the representative of Steinar Bastesen. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘a.Bigninget bet The Government will come back with an assessment of the level of the product charge in connection with the revised national budget for the year 2000.b.The government further asked the Government to submit annual accounts for the product tax scheme for the Stortinget.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit a plan for the closure of the levy on chocolate and sugar products as soon as possible and at the latest in the revised national budget for the year 2000.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e3806	We're going to vote on the proposal for a decision in the vote, and we're going to start with the framework area 19. In this area there are minority proposals from the Progress Party, the Right and the Socialist Left, the proposals No. One, two, three. As the President has previously stated, these proposals lapse in line with the provision referred to in paragraph 19 of the Storting Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e4102	The President assumes that the Party of Advancement, the Right and the Socialist Left will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e4112	There are also proposals for Framework Section 20 by the Progressive Party, the Right and the Socialist Left which are now falling away. That is the proposal No. Four, five, six.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e4250	Here too, the President assumes that the Progress Party, the Right and the Socialist Left will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e4260	We're about to move on to the 23rd Framework Area. For Framework Area 23, there are proposals from the Progressive Party, the Right and the Socialist Left. That is the proposal No. So 7, 8 and 9, which is going to cancel out. Furthermore, there is a proposal, No. 22, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the representative of Bastesen, which is a correction to the amendment to Section 4 of the Recommendation under the basic fee for fuel oil. The President will come back to this a little bit later.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e10065	We then vote over the framework area 23 and the corresponding II and the underlying tax and tax decisions, with the exception of § 4 under the basic fee for fuel oil. The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Right and the Socialist Left will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e10077	Under this framework, there is still to be a vote on this section 4 under the basic fee for fuel oil. There is a proposal, proposal No. 22, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, the Left Party, and the representative Steinar Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows: "GROUND NAME OF FEEDING OIL M.V.§ 4 shall be replaced by the following:On condition that the Department may determine, exempt, refund or grant a fee for the proportion of biodiesel in the mineral oil.» The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Right and the Socialist Left will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e10097	As a result of this Decision, the proposal for Section 4 of this Decision is deleted. We have now reached the 24th Framework Area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-26.ana.ud1352e10782	There is no record.
