ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e44	I am pleased with the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Workers' Party. The agreement results in a redistribution of NOK 1.9 billion between different items of expenditure and a redistribution of a total of NOK 1.4 billion within the tax and tax arrangements. The budget has the same rigour as the government's arrangement. Expenditure growth remains unchanged and the budget has a good distribution profile. The main priorities of the Government's draft budget have been maintained. The budgetary agreement will contribute to a stable development of the Norwegian economy. There is a good basis for a soft landing after a long economic recovery. This is the third state budget to be dealt with under the new rules of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting. An important objective of the reform was to ensure that a majority in the Grand Duchy takes responsibility for the whole of the budget. This has been well taken into account in the consideration of the State budget for the financial committee for 2000. The budgetary balance sheet has not become a balancing item in the compromise. A year ago, the Norwegian economy was in a critical phase after five years of recession. After the income statement last spring, the growth in wages and salaries came out of line with the growth in wages and salaries of our trading partners. At the same time, the oil price was almost halved in a short time. The external economy showed a deficit after several years of high profits. There were economic and financial crises in Asia, Latin America and Russia. These conditions contributed to the failure of confidence in the Norwegian economy. The Norwegian krona fell sharply in value. The Bank of Norway found it necessary to increase interest rates by a total of 4.5 percentage points in a short period of time. The Norwegian economy is now strengthened. The exchange rate is back at the same level as before the euro. Norway’s Bank’s administered interest rates have fallen by 2.5 percentage points since the turn of the year. Price increases are low and are expected to fall next year. Moderate supplements were given in the annual salary bill, so that the annual salary increase is estimated to fall from 6.25 p.m. last year to 4.75 pst. this year. However, the annual wage growth in 1999 remains significantly higher than in our trading partners. The main challenge in economic policy now is to bring price and cost growth down to the same level as in our trading partners. This is necessary if, in the years to come, we are to be able to maintain high employment and low unemployment and to avoid a peculiarly high interest rate. The wage growth of our trading partners is estimated at 3.25 p.p. Next year. It is important that wage growth in Norway is not higher than this, so that we can avoid further loss of competitiveness. It's going to be a big challenge. But with a payover from 1999 to 2000 on moderate 1.5 pst. it would be fully possible to achieve the objective of a wage increase in line with our trading partners. Here, there is a considerable responsibility on the part of the social partners, which must continue the moderating line from the income statements in our countries. The outlook for the Norwegian economy has not changed significantly since the government presented its draft budget on 4 October. The state budget that will now be adopted provides a good basis for balanced development in our economy. I would like to stress that the tightness of the budget line must not be weakened through the financial year. We have to avoid spending increases without any interference. Oil and gas are non-renewable resources. Petroleum resources must therefore be managed in such a way that our children and grandchildren also benefit from them. Economic policy must be based on the gradual decline in petroleum revenues. At the same time, increasing numbers of older people in the population will lead to a sharp increase in pension expenditure and an increasing need for care services. The active proportion of the population will fall. To meet these challenges, two important elements are in particular: the State must add a significant part of its oil revenues to the State Petroleum Fund, and professional participation must be maintained at a high level. The State budget has been based on an oil price of DKK 125 per year. This year and next year. The oil price has increased again in the last period, and is now more than NOK 200 per year. barrel. The average oil price to date this year is NOK 134. At present, therefore, the state receives significantly higher revenues from the North Sea than budgeted. However, economic policy cannot be based on the fact that the high oil price will last, and we should not allow the state's expenditure or the level of taxation to fluctuate in line with the oil price. Such a financial policy would help destabilise the economy. It's less than one year since the oil price was less than 80 kroner per year. barrel. It would have been equally unwise to cut government spending dramatically then, as it would be unwise to inject further oil money into the mainland economy now. Last autumn, many predicted a sharp increase in unemployment in the current year. We've avoided that. In the 2000 national budget, average ACU leave is estimated to be 3.2 pst. in 1999. The average unemployment rate is the same as in 1998 and in line with the estimate in the national budget last autumn. The availability was for comparison 4.1 pst. in 1997. The latest data from the labour force survey show a seasonally adjusted unemployment rate of 2.9 pst. in the third quarter of this year. The registered unemployment rate is also expected to be around the same level in 1999 as in 1998. The labour market is expected to be tight again next year, with still considerable shortage of many types of labour. However, as I have pointed out earlier, we have to wait for a slightly higher unemployment rate in the future. Developments in registered unemployment since the summer also indicate this. Unemployment may in particular increase in the shipbuilding, supply and other oil-related industries. The long-awaited fall in oil investment contributes to lower activity in this part of the economy. This is due to structural conditions and cannot be countered by a more expansive economic policy. However, in the State budget, there are instruments that will help to mitigate the fall in activity in this part of industry. These establishments possess a great deal of competence. Employees in these enterprises are therefore in demand in other parts of the labour market. At the same time, it is important that labour market policies are actively used to remedy the situation in these industries. In the budget, the level of action next year is increased by 4000 places on average. A significant part of the response sites should be targeted at the dismissals and lay-offs in the yard and supplier industries. This will allow key personnel to be maintained and further qualified pending new assignments to the enterprises concerned. The municipalities are responsible for a large proportion of the services the Norwegian welfare community relies on. The income of the municipal sector has increased significantly in recent years. This has been necessary to enable municipalities to increase their efforts, among other things. in the health sector and in the care of the elderly. The state budget now adopted means that the real level of revenue for the municipal sector next year will be about DKK 1.5 billion higher than that of the municipal economic proposition in our year. Within the framework of a tight budget line, there is room for increased efforts in important areas. Among other things, expenditure from 1999 to 2000 is increased by approximately: $3.5 billion for health and $800 million for health. SEK to international aid700 million. SEK to the families with children700 million. SEK for education and training and training 600 million. SEK for research and innovation 500 million. SEK to the districts 500 million. kr to the justice sector Within a sound budgetary framework, it is necessary to increase the level of taxation somewhat in order to allow for increased appropriations to be allocated to important areas. The decision of the majority of the committee involves a real increase in taxes paid and taxes of just over NOK 1.3 billion. Taxes and taxes actually increase by just over NOK 2.5 billion. Changes in child-responsiveness are not included. The main measure of the charging scheme is an increase of the electricity charge by 2.5 cents per year. kWh to contribute to reduced power consumption. The tax increase is partially compensated by tax relief for people with low incomes. The tax arrangements have a good distribution profile. The minimum deduction is increased from 21 to 22 p.m., and the minimum deductions for labour income are greatly increased, from NOK 3 900 to NOK 30 600. Increases in the minimum deduction amount provide significant tax relief for those with the lowest employee income – up to NOK 139 000. The person deduction, formerly known as the class deduction, is increased by DKK 1400 in tax classes 1 and DKK 2800 in tax class 2. A new step in the top tax is introduced with a rate of 19,5 pst. for personal incomes above NOK 762 700, equal to 16 G. All in all, this gives a significant balancing effect, which I am pleased with. However, the balancing effect would have been even better if the general income tax rate had been increased, in combination with increased deductions and lower social security contributions or peak taxes, as proposed by the Government last year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e113	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e116	I noticed that Minister of Finance Restad, in several areas, on the main demands of the Labour Party in the negotiations we have conducted with the centre parties, highlights the importance of what has been put into place through the budget agreement. I think that is both pleasant and positive, not least because the Minister of Finance so strongly emphasises the importance of the package of measures we have received to the industry. In addition, Minister of Finance Restad is known for being a very sober gentleman, but when the budget agreement with the Workers' Party was signed, he made amends with both soft cakes and serpentines. There could be many good reasons why the Minister of Finance celebrated the budgetary agreement. First of all, it could be because he was satisfied that he could still be Minister of Finance. It could also be that the Minister of Finance considered the budget agreement to be a good financial arrangement, and it could also be that Minister of Finance Restad thinks like his party leader, Enoxsen, and that he was therefore also pleased that the agreement had been concluded with the Workers' Party, because, as Mr Enoxsen has said, it is only with the Workers' Party that the Centre parties can achieve a better distribution policy. I assume that the Minister of Finance shares my view that a good distribution policy is about the whole of the financial system, and my questions to Minister of Finance Restad are: Does Minister of Finance Restad agree that this year's budgetary agreement actually involves a significantly better distribution? Does Minister of Finance Restad also agree with his party leader that a fairer distribution can only be achieved by cooperating with the Labour Party on economic policy?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e125	As I actually started my speech with, I am pleased with the agreement that the government parties and the Workers' Party came into being, which is now the basis for the budget that will be adopted tomorrow evening. It's true that there was some celebration here. It was not because I was so happy to continue as Minister of Finance, although it is a challenging and decent job to be so, but it was because of what the agreement looked like. For the first time in a very long time, a budget corresponding to the last decimal point proposed by the Government is adopted. Some reallocations were made – 1.9 billion on the expenditure side and approx. 1.3 – 1.4 billion on the tax side, but it was just redistribution. There was no deterioration in the budget balance. It was the same neutral budget, the same expenditure growth, etc., as I explained, and for a finance minister, of course, there is every reason to be satisfied with it. Then, of course, I don't disagree with my party leader that distribution is important, and I also expressed in my article the joy that we had got for a better distribution. I guess I also have to say that there is no reason to disagree that it is with the Workers' Party that we can get to the best distribution. It is not as easy with those with whom we had a budget agreement last year, and it should well be a confirmation of what Roger Enoxen has also said.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e134	It is possible that the budgetary agreement was celebrated with both soft cakes and serpentines, but one might wonder if it was also celebrated with port wine, as this is the type of alcohol that actually receives a reduced level of fees after this budget arrangement. It might be interesting to hear the finance minister's assessment of why exactly the port wine was to be picked out. Is it to counteract border trade, or is it to make young people drink more port wine and less of anything else? To ask a question that is a little more serious: in the tax settlement we have seen a sketch of marginal taxation as a result. There is no level of marginal taxation that goes up evenly in line with income trends, but it jumps up and down completely without any correlation with income developments. Is there, in the view of the Minister of Finance, a favourable development of the marginal taxation system? And if not, what do you have to do to fix this? I also have a third question. Once again, the total tax burden goes up. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance where he believes that the pain limit goes for individuals and businesses in terms of their overall tax burden. It is said repeatedly that it is necessary to increase tax and tax burden, and therefore I would like to know where the Minister of Finance believes that the limit for this is going, and whether it is not soon time to put a stop to increases.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e143	The representative, Siv Jensen, started with a little excited to ask why exactly port wine gets reduced fee levels. As an accomplice, I have to say that I cannot give any good answer to that question, but it was at least not for reasons that the Minister of Finance was going to buy cheaper port wine that the level of the charge on it has fallen. In order to be a little more serious, it has to do with the alcohol tax system, and that port wine has in the past been clearly heavily taxed in relation to a more sensible system. Then the next theme was marginal taxation. It is true that marginal taxes vary slightly up and down. It may have its drawbacks, but the most important thing we took into account this time was to make sure that with the lowest incomes, they get a real tax relief. I think Siv Jensen, who would like us to have tax relief, should be able to enjoy it. Although this time it was taxed to them with the lowest incomes and not to those with higher incomes, we should have a common reason to be satisfied. So that was the question of where the pain limit goes for taxes. For my part, this is not a question of the limit of pain for taxes. I could in this respect also ask back: Where does Siv Jensen think that the pain limit goes when it comes to the public offer? If you want to make tax cuts to the extent the Progress Party wants, you obviously have to pass all the pain limits for public offers, which it will not be possible to give. But here it has been important for us to find a better balance between private demand/private purchasing power and public demand. And the very modest, I would say, the tax and tax increase that is now being adopted – with just under NOK 2 billion, approx. 1.9 billion accounted for – should be living with after many years with solid paychecks for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e152	At first it was nice that the Minister of Finance clarified why the representative Steensnæs danced on the table and hung up serpentines in the Council of State after the budget was clear. It was the first time the government got through the budget down to the last comma," said Restad. It didn't sound like that when we heard the Left's representative this morning, when they said that there's a lot of people who could think of themselves differently, especially in relation to the huge tax and tax increases. In the agreement that is on the table today, there is not only disagreement between the government parties, but it is also that the centre and the Workers' Party have agreed on something that is against both, namely a new step in the top tax. Both Sigbjørn Johnsen and Gudmund Restad have stated that such a step increases tax evasion. The government warned as late as one year ago against the consequences of a new step in the top tax: the distribution effects of a third step are likely to be limited and such a ‘high marginal tax may provide strong motivation for tax adjustments’. When the tax on employee income rises to 65 p.m., many will try to infiltrate the divisional model. There have been many peculiar reasons for introducing a new step in the top tax. The most exotic thing was probably the chairman of the finance committee, Lars Gunnar Lie, this morning. He was aware that increasing the differences in the taxation of capital and labour income involves a breach of the Waxenås Declaration, but, as he said, it is not so dangerous, because the ‘only wage earner group that receives a notable tax increase is wage earners with more than average government minimum wage’ – what it is. Perhaps the Minister of Finance can be helpful with a little clarification. Given that it is the government's stated aim to reduce the differences in the taxation of capital and labour income, it is surprising that they are increasing. Is it so to understand that the Minister of Finance believes it is easier to get a flat tax if you make it less flat first?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e163	What I did when I tried to justify the joy that we had adopted a budget that to the last comma was what the Government had proposed, was just pointing to a fact. All indicators remain unchanged in the budget currently adopted compared to the budget proposed by the Government. It is, especially for a finance minister, very satisfactory and perhaps gives reason for a soft cake piece. The next topic the representative Burnde raised was the new step in the top tax, which I also mentioned in my post. It is true that several finance ministers, including those signed, have raised concerns about introducing a new stage in the top tax. That would therefore not be what the Minister of Finance wanted first and foremost, but this was what was possible in an agreement with the Workers' Party. As I pointed out in my post, I believe that it would have given a better effect if you had followed up what the Government actually proposed last year, to increase the tax on ordinary income and combine it with increased deductions or lower social security contributions. At that time, it would have been possible to increase the difference between the taxation of capital and earnings and to help shrink it, which is also a goal in the Adult Declaration. But it is that when you are going to make agreements, you have to give and take something, and in this case this was the grip you could agree between the Workers' Party and the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e170	There's a lot of times you sit with a feeling that I've heard this before. I believe to remember that Finance Minister Restad said to Stortinget that this is a good budget both last year and the previous year. The most important thing here is that we have a health and a tightness that needs to be maintained, and he is happy that he has achieved. I have a feeling that almost no matter what budgetary settlement the government had made, and almost no matter how it had used the money through the state budget, the finance minister had gone up here and said the same thing. Anyway, he said it at least last year. What's interesting is that if you go into the national budget, you'll see that many of the exercises that were conducted last year have actually not become a reality. Last year there were two sizes that were important: one was that the oil-corrected deficit should not increase by more than NOK 5 1⁄2 billion, and the other was that the tightening should be approx. 9 billion kroner. If you go into the national budget, you'll see on page 70 that the oil-corrected deficit will be NOK 15.4 billion. That means that the government has spent $10 billion more than the budget partners for last year. It's probably made sense, because that money has probably gone to reasonable measures, but what's obvious is that the tightness that was absolutely inevitable last autumn, that is, has been aberrant throughout the year. The tightness last year was necessary for interest rates to fall and inflation to fall. Despite the fact that the tightness has not been maintained throughout the year last year, interest rates have fallen and inflation has fallen. The lesson you can learn from it is that much of this is about psychological exercises. Finally, I must be allowed to ask the Minister of Finance the following question: How do you explain that the tightness that you are also very concerned about today is so absolute in the crown, as you here boast that you have even made a budgetary settlement, when the reality is that the economy is much more flexible than that? And why do you spend so much time on that kind of exercise when you know afterwards that it's actually not like that? It's not such absoluteness.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e179	I think it would have been very risky for the Norwegian economy if you were to base Djupedal's philosophy on making budgets: if you pull it, you pull it – it's not that dangerous with billions from or to. On that basis, I understand these billion promises that SV was out in the election campaign, for example. to school. But it is my reverential claim that if you had followed the SV's recipe and created a budget with such a large increase in expenditure growth, the Norwegian economy would have done damage to it. At least I am personally not in doubt about that. With regard to the budget we were adopted last year, it is true that it has not been possible to implement it to the point and the point. But that's because of a lot of events that we had a hard time predicting the harvest before, when the budget was created. I am thinking of the crises we have had in our neighbourhood, in Kosovo, and where it was necessary for Norway to set up. It cost considerable amounts – well up to 2 billion kroner. It was not possible to predict and budget with. I am pleased that, despite this crack in relation to the adopted budget, the economy has nevertheless evolved positively for several reasons, and we have received a gradual strengthening of the crown. The crown is now in place where it should lie, and we've got interest rate increases – 2.5 pst. during the year. There are also many other factors that show that the Norwegian economy has now become very healthy. But it would hardly be long if the SV's thinking had been taken into account, that it's just a matter of asking for additional expenses. A cost increase of more than 2.5 pst., which is approx. 1⁄4 pst. above a trend in GDP growth, would hardly have been sound.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e191	President, a manifest misunderstanding!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e198	The President thinks it's nothing but a political misunderstanding. We will have to do that later in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e203	I think the Minister of Finance had a thorough and straightforward explanation of the importance of keeping the budgetary balance and not spending more oil money. We've heard that before. When this government took over, we had an interest rate roughly in line with Europe. Then a budget was presented that autumn when the finance minister said it was very important that we did not spend more oil money. So the government made a compromise with the Right Party and the Advance Party and spent more oil money. Then the interest rate went up. The next harvest was important with tightness in the budget that the government provided, to get the interest rate down again, and it was very important not to spend more oil money. So the compromise with the Right and Advance Party led to the Government spending more oil money. And even if the interest rate has fallen, it is still approx. 3 pst. above the average in Europe. As the Minister of Finance stressed, this year a budget was created with the exact balance proposed by the Government, for the first time under this government. I'm not going to try to get the Minister of Finance to promise lower interest rates – it might not be a good idea. But I can ask the question in this way: does the Minister of Finance think that the budget now adopted in cooperation with the Workers' Party, which maintains the tightness of the budget, provides a better starting point for reducing interest rates than the budget compromises that the Government has concluded in the last two years?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e212	I have been made aware that I blamed myself for a delay instead. It is possible that that was why Øystein Djupedal asked for the word of an obvious misunderstanding. I told you we had experienced an interest rate increase of 2.5 pst. But everyone knows that we've had an interest rate reduction of 2.5 pst. since the end of the year. Then it's corrected. I think Dag Terje Andersen in his line draws a strange picture and gives a remarkable explanation as to why we had a weakened crown and interest rate increase last year. It was supposed to be the result of a totally hopeless financial policy in agreement with the Right and the Progressive Party. After all, Dag Terje Andersen, who sits on the Finance Committee, knows that. Day Terje Andersen is not unknown that we had a crisis in the world economy. We had a low demand and a high production of oil that caused oil prices to drop to 80 kroner per year. barrel and partly beneath it. We got a paycheck that was twice as expensive as our trading partners. All of this is a lot more detailed explanation of why we've lost confidence and interest rate increases last year. As I said, I am sure that Dag Terje Andersen knows, but I have noticed that he has also previously tried to explain the interest rate increase last year that we had a hopeless fiscal arrangement. So I'll correct it a little bit. It's not as bad as Dag Terje Andersen said that we still have an interest rate in Norway that is 3 percentage points above the interest rate in the euro zone. But the three-month money market rate is now approx. 2.5 percentage points above the euro rate. Whether the budget that is now adopted is better suited to bringing interest down than the budget that we adopted last year, I would not have expressed my opinion on. But I'm pretty sure we won't get 2.5 percentage points of interest reduction in 2000 on the basis of the budget we're about to adopt. So we've had that this year. Moreover, it would not in any way be desirable for us to have a further 2.5 percentage point reduction in 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e223	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e226	The Labour Party has taken on a misunderstood role as Robin Hood in this budgetary process. This role has been extended through the budgetary agreement to include the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left. Is it the case that the 2000 budget agreement takes taxes and taxes from the rich and gives to the poor? Of course it's not like that. So even though these parties want to be presented like this, they take money from everyone. These parties have pointed out a group in business that is going to be kind of a symbol group for the kingdoms of this country, and it's the shipowners. The fact that these shipowners probably move from the country along with the maritime environments clearly does not concern the Workers’ Party, the Christian People’s Party, the Center Party and the Left. I guess that's how you want to get rid of the ones you so repugnantly call rich. I see this as a cynical game from these parties in order for them to be perceived as some kind of Robin Hood. The truth is that everyone in this society is taxed and taxed so much that through various support schemes they have to get money back from the public to survive. Medium and lower incomes are likely to be most penalised because of the scale and level of excise duties. One can almost not buy anything in this country without it being subject to tax through some form of excise duty. This applies, inter alia, to: taxes on electricity, where the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left propose a strong increase. Do these parties believe that it is the so-called rich who will suffer from this increase? No, any up-and-coming politician understands that this will hit particularly hard those in society that have the least, such as the United States. minimum pensioners — a group that often sits with old apartments or old houses that are precious to keep warm. The same applies to large families of children, where the need for washing, cleaning and heating of several rooms requires more electricity consumption. Are these the kingdoms to be struck? What about the car charges? Here, too, the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left Party are increasing because, as it's so neatly called, they're strengthening the distribution profile, which obviously means they're going to take from the rich and give to the poor. Does anyone in this room think that the increase in the car charges these parties are proposing will have any meaning for the rich who want to buy a Jaguar, a Lamborghini or a Ferrari? I don't think so! On the other hand, I think it is very important for the children's family who are going to buy a slightly larger car, perhaps a combined car or a seven-seat car to fit the children. The result is that the so-called rich people continue to buy the car they want, while the families of children cannot afford to buy the car they need. In reality, these families of children have two choices – either to buy a small, road-hazardous car where everyone has to be intrusive and uncomfortable, or to buy a slightly larger used car that pollutes more than necessary. Who will be punished, the families of children or the rich? I'm just asking. Norway is one of the countries with the world’s highest petrol and diesel taxes. Who believes the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left are most affected by this charge? Is it the rich that are driving around in their Ferraris, or is it the lower middle class that is forced to drive old, environmentally polluting, end-of-life cars that use far more petrol than it should, and that in Sweden would have been thrown a long time ago? I'm just asking. We have a charge on the flight of passengers. I do not know how many kingdoms live around in District Norway, but insofar as there are any, they must also pay the so-called passenger fee on the flight. As all emerging politicians have recorded, the policies of the Workers' Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left have led in various governments, led to a large movement flow from District Norway and to the central strike of the country – which confirms the fact that the Progress Party has consistently asserted that the district policy of these parties is not working. And as you're probably aware, it's not useful to do what most other parties do in this year's government budget, that's to increase the dose of the drug that doesn't work. When you've had a continuous flow of moving from District Norway to the central eastern region, it becomes like this, whether you like it or not, that the family is scattered across the whole country. To care for these family ties you have to travel and visit each other, and then often flights are the only option. As you know, charges amount to approx. 35 pst. of the price of an air ticket. Who believes the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left have the greatest opportunity to care for their relatives through visits? Who is the most severely punished by this charge? Is it the rich people who are going to visit their closest, or is it the co-worker who is going to buy an airline ticket when he is going to visit his parents at home? The specialty alcohol and tobacco taxes are at a level that qualifies for mention in the Guinness Book of Records. That these charges have a level that leads to severe trade leakage to Sweden and Denmark, which in turn leads to the closure of jobs in vulnerable counties, does not enable the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left to do anything in this state budget. The Labour Party has drawn up a budget statement outlining how a person wants a future alcohol policy. It is going to lower the brandy fee by 17,5 pst. and raise the price of darts. I assume that it is part of the Workers' Party's distribution policy that the rich's brandy should be reduced, while the working class's people's pills should receive an increased fee. How the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left can claim that through this state budget they have implemented a much better distribution profile, which in a more popular language means to improve the situation of those who have the least by taking away from those who have the most, is a mystery to me. It is my claim that through increased electricity charges, increased car charges, increased fuel charges, etc. these batches have gone against the road and hit those which have at least, even harder than before. Those who have little, can afford even less for next year than they had this year, while those who are rich, can afford the same thing as this year. It is worth noting that the document fee, which particularly affects those who are in the process of establishing and with which the Prime Minister in the election campaign promised to do something, continues with full weight, possibly with good distributional justification – what do I know? The party of progress will claim that when a charge is imposed on the top of what a product costs to produce, the hardest hit is those who have the least, and by doing so, large parts of the population are made dependent on different types of public support. The Party for Progress does not want such a development and is therefore going the opposite way. We are promoting proposals for government budgets that reduce taxes and taxes so that they cater for most people, and that make everyone in this country better able to cope. The Party recognises that shipping is an industry subject to international rules and conditions of competition. The Progress Party wants a strong maritime base with Norwegian shipowners in Norway, which will once again provide the basis for several Norwegian seafarers. That is why we want a tax system and a regulation that facilitates this. The Progress Party therefore rejects the proposal for increased shipping tax. As I mentioned earlier in my article, the increase in the electricity tax will hit those in society that have the least, hardest. That is why the Progress Party is strongly opposed to this increase. The party recognises that car and car use are essential for a long-term country such as Norway to function in a sensible way. We are therefore proposing a substantial reduction in the taxes on passenger cars. In this way, those who are rich can continue to buy their Ferraris, but what is important is that then families with children who need a little better, a little bigger and a little safer car, park the old, petrol-extinguishing environmental bomb and buy the car they need. The progress party proposes to lower the petrol price by 2 kroner and 50 cents, the diesel price by 1 kroner and 72 cents and the annual tax by 205 kroner and to halve the annual motorbike fee. This is something that will suit most people. The Progress Party wants the taxes on alcohol and tobacco to be much lower and harmonised with Swedish levels. Of course, this should apply both to the conjac of the rich and the people's beer, the skirt, of the working class. Furthermore, the Progress Party proposes that the passenger charge on flight be removed so that the fee shall not be the cost to enable the interoperability officer not to afford to travel by air to visit his parents or other relatives. The document fee is a particularly burdensome fee, because most people who buy a house or apartment have to borrow to pay it. The Party therefore proposes that this levy be abolished.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e270	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e273	If the budgetary position and, to the extent, the contribution of the representative, Mr Svendsen, show what the main priorities of the Progress Party are, it is in many ways interesting to read and hear. The car charge is e.g. a policy area of high attention, while the policy area of the local authority sector is given equal attention. But it's the municipal sector that produces most of the welfare services that people most need. I have also noticed that the Progress Party in the vote disagrees with the principles of the income system on which the municipal sector is based, but that they will nevertheless use them in the design of the budget. In such a context, it is interesting to see that the Progress Party actually reduces funding for education and the local community sector overall, by around DKK 12.5 billion in relation to the agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties. However, for the Workers' Party, as opposed to the Progress Party, it is important to strengthen the economy of the local government sector. And through the budget agreement, we also have, among other things, has been strengthened the economy of Mr. Svendsen's own municipality. So the Progress Party says that a greater part of the income of the local government sector must come through tax revenue rather than as transfers in the income system. What will that mean in practice? Well, that would mean that the municipalities that are already in poor shape get even worse because many municipalities have a weak income base. Then you have to solve this by outsourcing or privatization. But then my question to the representative Svendsen is: when you take the sum of the recordings that form the basis here, won't it in many ways cause those who are already in a bad state to get out worse, because of the poor nutritional basis of many of these municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e284	I have recorded during the debate that there are several people who have read the draft budget of the Progress Party. After hearing the question that was asked here, I am not so sure that the representative Eriksen has taken the time to read it. We have sent our draft budget to the Statistical Central Bureau to calculate what this will be for the local government sector. This will result in a further 2.4 billion kroner in the local government sector going along, we'll get lower inflation, and we'll get a lower price increase. Now I also believe that even to a large extent the municipalities have the opportunity to improve their economy, starting with competition in the municipal sector. It was said before today that there were many municipal politicians from the Progress Party who also complained about the municipal economy. And I think that's quite correct. They complain that they do not get the other political parties to introduce competition in the public sector and in the local economy, so that more money can be spent on the weakest in the municipality, spend more money on the schoolwork in the municipalities, spend more money on the elderly in the municipality and spend more money on the sick in the municipalities. Unfortunately, you do not get the other political parties in the municipalities for this, but you are allowed to hope.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e295	There is an interesting development in the Progress Party as to whether the Progress Party should be seen as a bourgeois right-wing party or whether it is entering a social democratic mixed economy. In the financial position, the Progress Party and the Right stand together on a comment related to private ownership, where we agree with the Government's objective: «... to reverse the trend of direct ownership of private individuals in Norwegian business. This requires that the active private ownership and private institutional ownership be strengthened at the expense of the country’s ownership of the business community.» At the same time, the leader of the Progress Party, Carl I. Hagen, has gone out with completely different thoughts about increasing the state’s ownership involvement in Norwegian business, using, among other things. The Social Security Fund and the Oil Fund are much more active in investments in Norwegian enterprises, including: to prevent buying-in. Fridtjof Frank Gundersen has characterized this as a form of state involvement that has so far been foreign and unwanted in the Progress Party. In my opinion, this totally violates the historical tradition of the Progress Party in relation to limiting the influence of the State, and it could be interesting to hear what the representative Svendsen's position is in relation to the debate that is taking place internally in the Progress Party. Do you want increased state ownership, or do you not want increased state ownership? Does he agree with Fridtjof Frank Gundersen that this is a proposal that may seem negative and that it is very difficult to work without problems, among other things. the return on the amount of the insured person’s money? Tuesday we discussed a proposal to legislate this money.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e311	The last speaker was very concerned about whether we should be seen as part of the social-democratic side of Norwegian politics or as part of the bourgeois side. The Progress Party wants to be seen as the Progress Party. It is actually the only alternative in Norwegian policy, and those who read the budget position see that it is only one option. It is one party that makes other proposals as monks, and it is the Progress Party. So that's the way it's always been: it's the Progress Party towards the rest. So the representative is trying to make a point that there is a debate in the Progress Party and that there is a turnaround in private investment. The party to the progress will not have direct State ownership in private business. On the other hand, we want a fund-based ownership structure, which is based on strengthening public confidence. It's turned on quite clearly in the program.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e321	In recent times, it may have looked more like the Progress Party against the Advance Party. That is what I think I do when it comes to a matter that is important for SV, and on which the Progress Party has also had quite a high flagging. The SV believes that imposing extra taxes on sick people is a deed. Tax is to be imposed on you by means of wealth. In the budget position, as I have also read, the Progress Party writes that ‘the own-payment over the previous 3 years was increased by a total of 33 pst.’ And now it's enough to see the Progress Party. There's SV in agreement, that's more than enough. But in the last two years, the Progress Party has been sitting at the negotiating table and has chosen not to emphasise that the disease tax, the excesses, should not increase. On the other hand, they have been very concerned that those who have great wealth and, not least, large wealth should escape with less taxes. So it's a direct result of the Progress Party's own priorities that they're now going out and critically criticising. They say that now sick people have ‘problems in purchasing their prescribed medicines and seeking medical care if necessary’. What, then, is the reason why the Progress Party clearly still believes that tax relief is more important on large assets and on large revenues than making a significant effort to bring down the tax on sickness?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e328	The Progress Party has consistently opposed the increase in equity. If you had taken the trouble to read through the draft budget of the Progress Party for the previous two years, you would see that it is quite clear that the Progress Party does not want such a burden on disease. That was also done last year, and we also had a budget proposal that took a great deal of distance from this. Then you came into a position where you had to choose between two budget proposals, i.e. if we were to provide subsidized support for a different budget proposal than our own. Then you were forced into a corner where you had to choose between the plague and the cholera. Had we not been included in the budget that had been provided, it would have been much worse for the sick too – because they are affected by the same taxes and the same charges that we managed to bring down last year. As a result, the overall situation has improved for them by giving us a hand in the budget. Although this was a subsidiary vote for a draft budget for which we did not at all like anything very good to vote for, it was better than the other option.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e333	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e336	The so-called supplier industry, which supplies goods and services to our offshore activities, plays a very important role as cornerstone activity in many regions, especially in some coastal areas. This important industry is entirely dependent on the expansion and other off-shore activities of oil companies. In recent times, we have experienced the dry order from the oil companies. This has major implications for the supplier industry, including: by providing, during a transitional period, an activity level which is slightly lower than that which will become the future level. Such a situation imposes extra demands on how to take care of both the human beings and the important competence of the industry. In the government's draft budget there are several good moves to improve this situation, especially with a view to stimulating the rate of expansion in the North Sea. I can mention the reduction of CO2 tax, the reduction plan for the production fee, 100 million. to project-right technology development and labour market initiatives to safeguard and further develop skills. These measures were well received. Under the budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party, the measures for the supplier industry have been further strengthened, including: in the case of new action sites and in the case of a separate action plan for the dismissal and leave of absence in the industry. I am pleased with these measures. The Norwegian supplier industry represents a world-class high-tech peak competence. It is very important that we do not lose this competence, but that it is, on the contrary, further developed. From contact with the professional community, I can confirm that all the measures I have mentioned here – both those contained in the original government budget proposal and those resulting from the budgetary agreement with the Labour Party – together with a generally positive and satisfactory attitude from the Government, are helping to create optimism and progress towards those industries and regions that are currently really struggling. I have also noticed that the measures targeted specifically at oil companies seem to be contributing to the emergence of new investments. Another area I want to mention is voluntary teams and organizations. This part of Organisation Norway, which we call the third sector, carries out important and irreplaceable work in many fields. The Christian People's Party is concerned that voluntary teams and organisations should have good conditions. Therefore, it is gratifying to record that the Government's proposal on tax deductions for gifts to such organisations is now being implemented. Although the tax-free sum is not yet so high, it is, however, fully pervasive for this important principle. The flora of voluntary teams and organizations is large and represents a very large variety. Therefore, it may be difficult to find good and tidy definitions of who should be covered by this scheme. Many organisations are team- or group-based, without a central membership register. For this reason, a majority of the Finance Committee has asked the Government to assess whether requirements for a certain number of teams/groups can be equated with the requirement for at least 3000 members to be included in the scheme. The overarching objective of introducing the tax exemption scheme is to encourage, stimulate and help these organisations to continue and further develop the important work they are doing. Therefore, the scheme must also match the organisations for which it was intended. For the same reason, the Committee has also asked the Government to consider whether the scheme should also include organisations that promote cultural protection. I am also very pleased that we are now seeing that Section 8 of the tax on property can be introduced with effect from 1 January 2001. In consultation with the Government, the Committee of the Regions asks that a legislative and regulatory change be introduced to ensure that the consequences for the municipalities of power in the implementation of Section 8 are consistent with what was the majority of the population's commitment to managing the electricity tax reform in 1996. I am overconfident that a long and difficult case with this will find a good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e357	So far, I think the discussion about the state budget here in Stortinget has been very calm. In fact, in the discussion among the many affected by the budget, this year, as in the past, it seems that the budget compromise is not enough either. But it has at least been calm in an area that has worried us when we have had budgetary procedures in the past, namely the discussion that has been common in economic circles about whether this budget is good enough to meet the economic challenges in a responsible way – to keep the krone price stable and to keep interest rates down. That discussion has also not been part of this autumn. There may be several reasons for the favourable situation. I think one reason is that no matter who makes the budget agreement, it is an advantage that the political situation is clarified quite early and quite quickly. It's happened this year, and I'm sure it's good. But in addition to that, and perhaps even more importantly, I think a reason is that it has been clear for a long time – and it became clear early – that the budget compromise was not supposed to result in spending more money than the government put up to it. We have managed to keep the budgetary balance through the treatment, and we have managed not to spend more oil money. I am very pleased that the Minister of Finance here so strongly stresses the importance of that order in the economy, the importance of not allowing ourselves to be tempted to collect more oil money in order to resolve matters in an easy way by slipping on the budget balance. In that case, there is a little disagreement as to whether budgets mattered. At least we agree that it is important that the budget is not now broken and that it is going to have a positive development in the future. That means that we've got an important piece of solidarity option in place again, namely that the tightness of financial policy, the governance of how much money we spend in society, follows a proper line. And fiscal policy is an important element of the solidarity option, and that is our responsibility. It was the financial policy that broke only when we ended up in a situation where we were then given a liberal wage settlement and an adverse development of our crown price, with the resultant increase in interest rates. That's why it's so important that we get this really going. In addition, monetary policy is important, and we hope that the tidyness with which this budgetary procedure takes place means that we can also look forward to a decline in interest rates. And then, as Minister of Finance Restad said, it becomes important that the third element also comes into place, namely control of price and wage developments. There should have been a useful starting point for it with the structure that lies here now – and that is perhaps the most important element in a situation where we see that industrial employment for the first time in several years now, unfortunately, is falling. As a starting point, I find it very strange that the government instead of inviting the trade union movement to proper cooperation, chooses to confront the trade union movement by proposing changes to contractual pension schemes, which we all know are the result of tripartite cooperation in negotiations. For there are concrete proposals for changes in the contractual pension from the Government. It may not provide concrete proposals for decisions at this stage, but some ideas have been put forward on how to cut contractually agreed pensions, among other things. by reducing the possibility of a grant pension, weakening the right to earn pension credits over the duration of the AFP, etc. For our part, it is important that, to the extent that one should at all discuss changes in such a contractual arrangement, it must be done through negotiations and at the same time with negotiations. That is why, in this case, we are asking for it in the Workers' Party's remarks in the budget position. And it's a disappointment that the government parties couldn't be part of it either, precisely because it would provide a better basis for the important process that wage making becomes now in spring. When there has been cooperation between the Government, the Right and the Advance Party, the budgetary compromises in the Storting have gone wrong in relation to this type of consideration. This time, the treatment in Stortinget has provided a better basis for a positive attitude towards the beginning of the spring payroll. It has, among other things, has been achieved through the budget compromise to ensure that the unfair system of eradicating low-paid women's health insurance is restored. Fortunately, the increase in the demand for income in order to receive sick pay has been reversed. We have managed to increase the number of response sites. In a situation where we know that in some industries there is an increase in unemployment, it is an important tool. In the compromise with the right-hand side, those places were cut. We have been given a business package that leads to investments not least along the coast: in the offshore industry in connection with the construction of ferries, in fishing ports, etc. It means a lot, because it is in the sector of reduced employment. In addition, we have received road investment and measures in the woodworking industry that will have a positive impact on employment policy. We also think that the improvements we have made in the municipal sector are positive, with a total of about a strengthening. One billion kroner. Large parts of the funds are free of charge. We strengthen both the municipalities and the county councils' free framework, as well as the strengthening of regional hospitals, kindergartens, school leisure facilities, etc. What remains in the municipal sector – and that is another point where I wish we could get support from the government parties for our comment – is to see if we have fulfilled the intentions of the Rattsø Committee. It seems that the municipalities that were to be lifted, which were too low, are still too low in income levels to be able to give their inhabitants a good enough offer, as we can do otherwise in the country. It is a well-known fact that the municipalities in the Oslofjorden counties have to a large extent not yet been lifted, as was the intention of the Rattsø Committee. There has been a significantly better distribution profile in the budget after the treatment in Stortingen than it was. I am pleased that the Minister of Finance also underlined the importance of it, and the importance of our working together to achieve it. We have increased the tax for those who earn the most, and we have reduced the tax for those who earn the least. It is moving in the right direction, and it is in the opposite direction to what has been the outcome of budgetary agreements between the Government Parties, the Right and the Advance Party in the last two years. So there's been a lot of discussion here about the direction of budgets. The representatives of the Right and the SV and others have been concerned about whether there is any change in the direction of the budget. Yes, it is! The direction has changed, and it has changed to the better with the eyes of the Workers' Party. It's become a fairer distribution. But, of course, the Labour Party and the SV have ambitions to turn the policy towards the left, and we are pleased that we have got it. Of course, the Right and Advance Party, legitimately, have ambitions to turn the policy towards the right. That's the way it's all about the old stuff. And the government has ambitions to sit down. That's how most people can now be satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e394	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e397	The situation that has now arisen reminds me a little about the trouser woman who sat in the hymnbook and said that there are many songs that you could have sung. And there are also many things that could have been commented on in Andersen's posts. He is usually very concerned that the budget is properly drawn up, at least until now in the autumn, and that the budgetary settlements have a real impact on the increases made. Therefore, it was with some excitement that I looked forward to whether the Workers' Party would correct the government's most peculiar measures to bring the budget together. The Government proposes to remove the charge on radio and television equipment, but not until 1 September. The only reason was that you couldn't afford to remove it before. In the Right's budget, we have supported such a removal, which makes sense, but we do it the usual way, of course, from 1 January. But what do we see in the agreement? Well, not only does the Workers' Party support the proposal to remove the fee only a long time after the harvest, but they postpone it as well until 1 December. And as if that's not enough, to save even a few more dollars, the increase in child-restraint is postponed by four months, until 1 May. And then I have to ask Andersen if he doesn't see the problems of this creative form of budgeting. Is it not true that the changes will be fully effective in 2001, and that it will only be fooling itself when one waits to implement the changes well into the year? Would Andersen think it reasonable if the Right in next year's budget put all the taxes on cars, alcohol, tobacco and electricity down to the level we think is right, but only from 1 December that the figures should not become too crazy?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e404	I am pleased that more people are expressing the importance of responsible budgeting. Therefore, it was not unexpected that the Right would ask questions about this particular claim here. We've been a little excited about this debate and about that question. For while the right of each year before has been in a way the economic sentiments of debate, it has been shown every time that you – i.e. They, President, but as far as you are concerned! – have made a budgetary agreement with the central parties, the sacred budget balance that has been discussed by the Right has never been held. We've done it! I know that the right was very excited to see how things went with the crosspost this year. But the representative Burnde did not ask about it, because it has been touched much less now than in the budget compromise reached with the Right and the Advance Party last year, and only in line with the recommendations made by the Government, which can assess the need for coverage at the external point. In the case of the cassette fee and child benefit, there is a new lift. In fact, in the case of the cassette tax, it is a charge that we have all agreed on for a long time has expired. But it has been very difficult to remove it just because we have to set those revenues against expenditure for good purposes. I am therefore pleased that the government found room to cut through and get rid of a fee that we all really believe has played out its role. And then it's like what we spent the 90 million. NOK to which we saved was to prevent the introduction of a new fee on the impregnation of wood. I think we should all be happy that it was not introduced.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e416	The representative, Andersen, said that the Workers' Party and SV have ambitions to turn the policy to the left, and that is right. That means that we want, among other things, to strengthen the community and community services, i.e. schools, health care, elderly people, etc., and to provide the services of good quality and quality to enable people to get what they need and to be satisfied with the way in which they organise such needs. I imagine some problems with that. One is that if we are to be able to recruit and keep enough professionals for these important areas in the future – there are 85 000, after what has been outlined in the municipal economics proposition, and there are therefore twice as many people in the macro-economy – there must be something significantly different with public-sector pay and employment conditions than those we have today, if we are to have a chance to compete for this labour force. So there is a need for a completely different promise in the local economy than the Workers' Party so far has been willing to take. In fact, if the KS, who is now sitting and selling pay here at least with the health care groups, should be able to come up with something other than the puslerium they have brought in the last few years – that is, make an offensive wage and employer policy that will in some way enable us to believe that we should be able to recruit and keep the people we need – they must get a clear signal from a majority in the Grand Duchy that they can expect this money to come, and that they will come over time, so that these goals can be achieved. I could imagine asking the representative Andersen if he is willing to give such signals. I heard a radio debate last night between a representative from the Workers' Party and one from the Right who spoke about the same thing when it came to school settlement. They both signaled that they were willing to come back to the revised national budget to compensate for a salary settlement. I also think that the Labour Party should answer that question in the financial debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e427	I am pleased that there are at least several representatives of Andersen who want the policy to the left. On the issue of pay and employment, it is one of the areas where I think it is important that we follow the rules of the game to the point and the point. We have been careful throughout the election campaign to say that it is not in Stortingen that we conduct wage negotiations. Not everyone has brought it, but at least we've been neat about it. It is absolutely necessary to have a situation where the government is negotiating wages and negotiating wages within a responsible framework in order to achieve the good results we have talked about to a large extent in this debate, and that the Stortinge does not drive and promise extra pots on the side of the responsible framework, because they do not become extra compared to the responsible framework, in which case we will expand the framework. I've said it before and I'd like to repeat it, that something good should have come out of the government shift we got. And at least it's come out of the fact that we have a much more responsible opposition than we had before the government change. See that the Government of the revised national budget makes proposals for financial containment in relation to a wage settlement that is behind them – not to blow up a framework, but, if necessary, in relation to the local economy, for which the Government feels responsibility. We have agreed in the past that the local government sector must take responsibility for its wage framework. The kind of questions we have to come back to when the government presents the revised national budget and when they present the municipal economic proposition, but here and now to promise extra pay supplements to groups from the Stortinge pulpit, it will not be included in the Workers' Party!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e441	There were a few of the questions I asked, which I did not feel quite I received an answer to in the posts of the representative, Dag Terje Andersen. He said that the charge on radio and television equipment has expired. And we fully agree on that. But now I also think we should agree quite quickly that the way the Workers' Party and Centre finance the removal of this fee, which gives a proceeds to the state of 90 million. kr, has also expired. If you want to remove a fee, you do it from 1 January and not from 1 December, which the Centre and the Workers' Party have now invented. Had it only been that matter, we should of course have pointed it out. But it goes into a pattern. Especially from a party that has made it a virtue to point out that kind of thing, it's surprising that now you've chosen to expand child welfare from 16 to 18 years. And then you phase it in from May 1st, because you haven't found the money to fund it. But in 2001 it will not be forgotten that it will have to be financed as a whole. This is some sort of budgeting that I actually didn't think the Norwegian Workers' Party would recommend. My question to Andersen's representative is: Does Andersen's representative think that this is a good way to budget, or was it with the pen and with a little bad conscience you did it? So the representative told Andersen that he had noticed that I was not afraid to say anything about the cuts in the stock post, because the cut that was made in the stock post this year, is actually recommended by the Government. Yes, as if the adjustments made in the crosspost as the center, Right and Advance Party last year were not recommended by the Government! The point is that last year the Workers' Party stated that it is unprofessional to cut the miscellaneous item to finance current expenditure. Isn't it unprofessional when the Workers' Party cuts $300 million? kr in the stock item this year?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e452	So the changes in the budget are funded this year in a way that I have a certain understanding that the representative Burne is envying us, given the way things were funded last year. So we've been able to do that without picking the easiest of all the solutions: slide on the balance sheet. But yes, we have some cut at the cross post on which we have supported the Government, among other things. on the basis of additional proposals and assessments by the Government. But that amount is much smaller than the corresponding amount last year. In addition, we have been very careful that we have to have real deposits for heads in relation to expenses incurred and income incurred. This means that we have now included some changes in the budget, including: in the tax system and in the tax system, which means that we know that the revenue accruing is going to be significantly higher than the revenue recorded. This means that, in those areas, we have actually laid a better basis for entering the 2001 budget year than what we are collecting in the year 2000. So we're looking forward, we're looking forward. But instead of introducing a new fee that cost 90 million. NOK, we agreed last round that it is better that we live with the cassette fee for three more months. It will be possible for the representative Burnde, and everyone else, to live with that fee for three months. After all, the representative will receive the Christmas deal free of charge.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e457	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e460	Just at the end of the last answer from the representative Dag Terje Andersen, there is a very interesting budgeting philosophy. If I understood the point correctly, sliding on the calendar is a commendable exercise, while slipping on the balance sheet is a non-recommendable exercise. It can open up many interesting future budgets to follow up this calendar budget. What's interesting about this financial debate is that we have now listened to three main contributions from three main speakers of the largest party in Storting, the Labour Party, and that not one of these articles has mentioned in one single word the case that the Workers' Party has used almost the entire financial debate to talk about, namely the cash support in the last two years. Not in one word! The representative, Stoltenberg, said in the morning meeting that there is no goal for the Workers' Party to drive the centre of the arms of the Right and the Advance Party. No, no, no. It must have meant that it has been of pure insanity that you have been doing it for exactly two years, that you have not been fully aware of what you were doing. What has happened from last year and years ago to this year that makes what made it impossible for the Workers' Party to cooperate with the Centre, is suddenly gone? Yes, it's not just gone, but the Workers' Party is now insisting on setting itself 100 pst. behind each detail, including the cash support, of the Government budget. It is remarkable in itself that the largest party in the Grand Duchy does not find it worth promoting its own draft budget. It must be interpreted, too, that it was almost conscious to have been broadcast directly on television, in the Workers' Party's comments after the conclusion of the budgetary agreement, that the whole of the Labour Party's policy had now been fully implemented. That is, there is really nothing in this budget that the Labour Party would have wanted to change if they had been with the government itself. The representative Stoltenberg also talked about that this might be a turning point in Norwegian policy, because it would mean that now the Workers' Party and the Centre have found each other. Furthermore, Stoltenberg said that the Workers' Party wants to find back to the cooperation with the Centre. Then you have to ask yourself: what have we witnessed for the last two years, and for that matter, including the election campaign in 1997? Then the center parties went to the election to be an alternative to the Workers' Party, and that was the whole point of the center election campaign that time. There was a need for a change of power; there was a need for a completely different policy; there was a need for an alternative to the Workers' Party. What is the central alternative to today, when, from the centre and from the Labour Party, you are now competing for the joint budgetary agreement? You actually insist from both sides on both the fatherhood and the fun of this budget. It will be interesting to see the further development of this great sea towards the next big elections in 2001, and what kind of government options we get if the Workers' Party is no longer an alternative to the sitting centre administration and center is not an alternative to the Workers' Party. Then there can be really interesting states in Norwegian politics. The recommendation of the budgetary agreement concluded by the Government and the Workers’ Party states that it is the right, forward-looking response to the challenges facing Norway. Yes, the Chair of the Financial Committee went so far in the beginning of the debate that he used the 2000s as a springboard for this time a special long-term and particularly forward-looking budget. It is said that there has been a commitment to education in this budget agreement. What is it that you've got? You have an increase of 100 million. The school leisure system, and many good things can be said about it, but it is not exactly a strengthening of Norwegian education! You've got 100 million. D to a school book lending scheme in high school, which has been investigated three times, and all the investigations have concluded that it is not recommended, inter alia. because managing the scheme would cost an inescapable amount of money. It is actually a scheme in which neither the county councils as school owners, nor the student and student organisations, nor the publishing industry are interested. What's certain is that these 100 million. kr does not contribute to the improvement of Norwegian education. To spend 200 million. At least no forward-looking focus on education is on measures that are so peripheral that they have to be characterised as disc bombs in relation to the challenges facing Norwegian school and education. In order to achieve this, quality promotion measures in schools have been cut short in the nutrition research of this budget agreement, i.e. by post, which relates to the qualitative aspects of research and education. The right has found room in its alternative budget to increase continuing training for teachers, which is one of the keys to improving the recruitment situation for the future, by DKK 250 million. We have found room to increase the number of recruitment positions at universities and colleges. Everyone agrees that this is a crucial part of a forward-looking commitment to research. In the government's budget proposal, there are zero new recruitment positions. For the first time in human memory – zero! And in the budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party, it is not mentioned in a word that you intend to spend money for that purpose. It is true that the biggest challenge for Norway today is to return to school, to invest in research and education. But this budget is actually quite in line with what the central parties themselves said in this year's election campaign, namely that there is no bet at school, and that the next two years, if you sit with government power, you intend to bet at school, because you have so many other important purposes to fulfill before you get there. It's hard for me to understand that the Workers' Party can believe that the reconciliation that has been made with the Centre is really near to meeting the challenge that the Norwegian education system requires us to meet today. On a point-by-point basis, the budgetary conciliation of the majority intends to vote in favour of the end of this financial debate, to say one thing and do the opposite. The working party has claimed that they are still against the cash support. In this respect, they are fully in favour of it in this budgetary settlement. The Centre has claimed — and the Workers' Party has done so too — that what is the problem of distribution in the Norwegian community today is taxing earnings too high and capital income too low. To this end, it is proposed to step up the progress and taxation of employee income. The Labour Party has achieved what they never achieved in the government position, that is to say, to win their year-long war against the AMS system, which is the only system we have in today's system that may contribute a little to equalising the difference between those who only have income and those who have the opportunity to reap a gain from the appreciation of the capital market. The small door opening has now succeeded in closing again. The working party would never have been able to do that if they themselves had been with the government power. The new thing in Norwegian policy is perhaps the seventh and last thing that the Workers' Party, by supporting a central government, can take advantage of more social democratic policies than they could have by sitting with the government itself.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e489	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e492	I believe, and I am convinced, that the Norwegian people are very aware of what the Workers' Party believes about the cash support and its principal effects. I do not think Inge Wohnung should be concerned about that, since it is not mentioned, as he says, earlier in the debate today. But what's surprising is that the representative, Inge Wohnung, who runs a very high profile in the media on the wage development of teachers, doesn't mention it with a single word from this speaker. He has also not mentioned the local economy in a single word, which has a direct connection with what he has said in the last few weeks and months. Even today, Inge Wohnung goes into the Evening Post and supports teachers' pay demands at approx. NOK 50 000. The evening post writes: ‘No pay supports teachers’ demands for a wage increase of SEK 50000, but does not mean that it is the responsibility of politicians to provide for the increase.’ It's a very interesting play, for who else in the public sector than politicians should be the granting authority in this context? At all events, in this debate, the Right has been close to e.g. to say that the local economy actually needs DKK 4 billion more if you were to meet the proposal that Inge Wohnung now supports for a salary increase of DKK 50000? However, according to the same article in the Evening Post, he goes even a little further and says that “teacher’s pay should be increased by $50,000 – $100,000” over a certain period of time. It might be interesting if he elaborated this something closer from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e506	The representative of Kristiansen was probably injured to confuse the evening post and the newspaper. This may be because he no longer recognizes his own old newspaper from the time it was called Arbeiderbladet. The quotation was most deficient on the part of the representative of Kristiansen. If he had quoted in his context what was stated in the Newspaper, he would have seen that I explicitly stated that of course it is not a realistic idea to raise all teachers by $50,000 in one paycheck. The opinion on 50 000 – 100 000 kr fell long before the summer holiday, but it plays a minor role. It was an indication by my side of where I believe a future salary level for teachers should lie. At the time I said explicitly that you should get to it, you have to think of a stepping up over, for example. three to four years. I have also clarified in what I said to the Newspaper that the teacher organisations themselves must take a substantial part of the responsibility. If they are to pursue a forward-looking wage policy, they must stop prioritizing all other objectives in line with wage developments. It has a special address to the National Association of Schools, which lives in a very close relationship with the LO and the Workers' Party, who have worked hard to bring into the debate in the last few days the question of a fifth holiday week and compensation for teachers in that context. At least it is not a sensible form of union policy. Of course, the Right very well knows that the consequences of wage fixing for spring come in the revised national budget, and that is when we have to hold the debate on those consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e520	President! To a manifest misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e527	I think we should leave it, because it has been both in the newspaper and in the evening post today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e530	Yes, but the accusations directed at me here, I almost have to be allowed to correct. I am sitting with the Evening Post for Thursday 25 November, the evening edition. It is an interview that has come to light today!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e537	No pay, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e541	I have not made any accusation against the representative Kristiansen, but I can inform him that I have not had any conversation with the evening post. I have not read the notice either, so I do not know what the evening post is based on.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e546	The representative on the payroll said in his post that the biggest task is to return to school. Now there are probably several of us who believe that we have a good education system in the international context, without undermining that we have challenges, and that it can get better. The representative also drew up several of the Right’s good suggestions for increased school investment. Then one would think that the right was also concerned about getting a majority for that. The more surprising it was to see the Right Draft Budget. Here there was tax relief and large cuts in public expenditure, expenditure for purposes that were well justified. The Christian People's Party was unable to read any invitation to cooperation in the Right Budget proposal. Cutbacks in aid to poor countries are not what increases my desire, but a political consequence is also that the Right is unable to get a majority for increased school spending. The government and the Christian People's Party have put in the budget a commitment to IT at school, mainly related to youth. The Christian People's Party thus carries out its promises from the election campaign in the fall. It looks worse because the right hand can do it. My question to the representative Wohnung will be if Right in any budgetary settlement with the centre parties would have sacrificed their tax reliefs to increase the investment in education.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e557	Let me remind the representative Lyngstad that of the constraints that the Right has made in its alternative budget proposal, the biggest and heaviest reduction in the health pay system is indeed. It also has the Christian People's Party programmed that the party is in favour. So at that point, I think it should have been quite interesting for the Christian People's Party to discuss how to find discovery with the Right possibly. It was said earlier today by the Chair of the Financial Committee that the Centre can well imagine cooperating both on the right and the left, but one will at any time consider where one can achieve the most. What has happened this time is that you have never tried – at any time – to initiate any conversation with the Right about any cooperation. What's absolutely certain is that if you had tried it, and if we had achieved such cooperation, we would have got a government budget for the next year that had brought about a much stronger and more offensive commitment to school and education — far more offensive than the one you now seem to be sitting with in the relatively gray and sad agreement you've entered into.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e564	Right and left agree that if we're going to get young today to want to be teachers, and if we're going to be able to keep the good teachers, we have to do something about the teacher's wages. I heard Dagsnytten a few evenings ago, where the head of the Church, Education and Research Committee, Grete Knudsen, and Høre's head, Jan Petersen, discussed this. Both were much clearer than the Right and Workers' Party is today, at that if it was such that the teacher's settlement until spring was good, it should be compensated for in the revised version. Today we have received many strange, different explanations from the Workers' Party. Among other things, Rune Kristiansen was up here and said that whoever could grant authority and politicians would do something if they were to do something about the teacher's wages. I fully agree with that. At the same time, however, others from the Labour Party today have been up and said that wages must politicians and the Stortinget do not at all comment on. Now the Workers' Party is going to explain its own confusion. But I need to ask if the Right is up to its promises. If we see what they've written in the financial position, they're saying that they're saying that it's going to be 100 million. kr for follow-up of the recruitment message, and you have set a pot for it. Then my question is, is that all? Is it all the right to come with you, if any, also revised if you negotiate a completely necessary paycheck in order to be able to maintain and recruit enough teachers and good enough teachers for your school in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e573	No, that's not all. What we have done in our alternative budget proposal is to assume what we did not know for sure at the time, namely that the teacher recruitment message would contain concrete proposals. It doesn't. It is practically empty of content. Even on the right, we have made some such concrete proposals, which will cost a lot of money, such as: shall be covered by the 100 million. kr, e.g. the proposal that university-trained teachers with six years of study up to a master's degree should not have to finance an additional year in order to be allowed to enter a low-wage occupation afterwards. The full scholarship of one year is going to cost some place about 30 million. kr. It's the kind of action that we've been planning to add to the hundred-remion-pocket. It has never been meant to face the consequences of a wage settlement — of course not. We have always made it clear from the Right that this is not done in the ordinary state budget proposal, until there have been negotiations at all. This is usually done in the revised national budget. I can confirm to the representative Andersen's question that all that has been said about this, of course, is at hand. We understand very well that the recruitment message is the drop that has been asked to run against teachers and students and parents at the grassroots, precisely because it does not take seriously the situation in which Norwegian school is located. Here it's not useful to wait for one year, two years, three years, four years, five years before doing any things, because then it'll be too late.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e582	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e585	Unlike the previous speeches, I don't intend to keep a 10-minute line directed at another party, but to focus on important things, as we see it, within the budget for the year 2000. For some time now, we have shown that the shipbuilding and supply industries will have major problems next year. The Labour Party has therefore fought for a more active industrial and employment policy that can help mitigate the decline in investment and offer active measures to those who have resigned and have left off. The budget agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties involves a doubling of the renewal rate in the ferry and a significant increase in the renewal of the fishing fleet. This will provide loving assignments for several shipyards along the coast that are now struggling with empty order books. Increased subsidies to port facilities and increased road construction appropriations will also be involved and increase activity. In order to quickly increase investment in the oil sector, we have now seen the production charge escalate faster into fields with more building-ready additional projects than the Government has planned. These measures will ensure more jobs in vulnerable industries. Nevertheless, we do not exclude that the number of people available and on leave at the offshore yards and in the supplier industry will increase sharply next year. In order to maintain and develop the competences of these industries and communities, we have proposed increasing the number of action sites by 3,500 compared to the government’s approach. Up to 3000 sites are part of a separate action plan aimed specifically at vulnerable industries such as the offshore and supply industries. Within the action plan, labour market measures shall also be applicable to persons on leave. A pilot project shall also be organised for adapted arrangements in the context of the reform of continuing training for the unemployed in these industries. One of the last items to be put in place in the budget negotiations between the Labour Party and the Centre Parties was the charging scheme. It will strengthen the economic profile of the budget that the Government's proposal to impose base charges on fuel oil for the wood processing industry and the new charge on printed impregnated wood are now rejected. One of the main objectives of the Workers' Party was to achieve a settlement in this budgetary agreement that contained a tax regime for redistribution. It is essential, in the view of the Workers' Party, that the tax system itself be designed in such a way as to ensure the allocation of resources. Fairness and broad disintegration of a relatively large public sector indicate that those with the largest actual income contribute most to the single fund in relative terms. For the Workers' Party, this is a basic starting point for the design of the tax system. The new salary deduction is one of several examples of redistribution elements in the agreement. New salary deductions of NOK 30 600 have a direct effect on the lowest employee income. It is precisely these groups that have slowed down in the development of wealth. Providing this redistribution through taxation could increase the motivation to participate in professional life. This may be particularly important in the care professions, where part-time work is widespread. The new step in the top tax increases the tax on those with the highest personal income, about 28 000 people. The point of entry is added to NOK 762 700. Studies show that these individuals also have other relatively high incomes, including: from shares and other capital. In particular, it is the uneven distribution of such capital income that increases income disparities in society. It is therefore important that these high-income groups now contribute to a more even distribution. So a few words about the national budget's mention of property tax law § 8 in relation to power plants. One of the main drivers of the electricity tax reform was the new competitive situation created by the introduction of the Energy Act in 1991. Two objectives were clear in this energy law: a tax system that was to be based more on profitability and fiscal non-discrimination, tax system that would enable electricity undertakings to meet the new competitive situation. The Norwegian power industry is now undergoing extensive restructuring and is increasingly open to competition with power companies in other countries. In the conversion of the 1996 tax on electricity undertakings, the majority of the municipalities of power did not assume that they would lose money on the changes in property tax for power undertakings. The majority of the Committee continues to support these formulations. What has happened that we did not have an overview of in 1996? In my opinion, there were three important criteria that changed in relation to that at the time: the development of the spot price market; That time we based our spot price on 16.5 cents. It has been shown that the spot price has varied between 11 and 12 cents per cent. kWh.The difference between sampling and final taxiing when available.The strongly varying power conditions of the various power plants. Among these reasons, the income of the power stations would vary too much in relation to the decision of the Stortinge, which was the intention of the Stortinge. It has then been right – and we have supported the Government – to postpone the entry into force of Section 8 of the Property Tax Act for power plants, because it made too much impact on power stations, and that would not be in line with Storting’s assumptions. For these reasons, the majority of the Government is asking the Government to propose legislative and regulatory changes so that the total income of the municipalities from property taxes from power generation plants in 2001 becomes as if the Stortinge assumptions were in the treatment of the electricity tax reform, namely that the municipalities should have the same income before and after the new reform. Finally, it is important that the Government in the treatment of property taxes also emphasises the need for overall strengthening the soundness and competitiveness of Norwegian power companies. There is no doubt good industrial policy, that is good for districts, and that is not least the right environmental policy. Proposals for legislative changes should be made in order to meet the requirements of the Grand Duchy in relation to the treatment of the electricity tax reform and these changes should be made in good time before 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e636	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e639	I know that Tore Nordtun, a tax spokesman for the Workers' Party, takes this task seriously and carries it out with great responsibility. I mean to think that in an earlier debate, he said something about the importance of cost-effective and stable framework conditions for business, and that this is not least the case with tax rules. I'm completely in agreement with this. Our business tends to know what they can count on for a reasonable period of time to come. I am well aware that the Labour Party has strong views both on the sharing model and on the fleet layer tax. In the budget agreement with the Workers' Party, we have made adjustments to both of these arrangements. And my question to the Nordtun representative is as follows: In view of the fact that there are now certain adjustments to these two arrangements, and in order to give business stable and predictable framework conditions, will Nordtun and the Workers' Party no leave sharing model and fleet tax alone?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e646	Predictability, the representative Sørfonn asked me about, and referred to a previous reply I had when it came to tax. There is no doubt that predictability in the framework conditions is one of the most important issues for business and, in particular, for business that makes large and forward-looking investments. With regard to the divisional model, the position of the Workers' Party is well known, but let's go back to the tax reform in 1992. Then there was a broad tax settlement also about the sharing model. And in the broad tax settlement, two important elements were in place: the identification rules and the ceiling. The Workers' Party has not been involved in diluting the 1992 tax reform. It was precisely Sørfonn's party that attacked both the roof and the identification rules in the sharing model. The divisional model of 1992 has been the subject of the Workers' Party. And what has been important to us all along is to close tax gaps and use them in cohesion policy. We have now partly agreed with the government parties that we have gone back a little bit on the identification rules in the divisional model, and got what we want, and that was part of the starting point from 1992. We are very pleased with that. As far as shipping taxes are concerned, it has been under discussion over a long period of time. It was also important for us to go back, and refer to what the Government proposed at the previous budgetary procedure, when they pointed out the obvious, large tax holes that were in the shipping tax. We are very pleased that we have now got the government parties to support the government's previous proposal, to close these holes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e655	It was well hoped in 1992 that, with the broad agreement reached, tax policy would become the foremost symbolism of a number of parties. The Labour Party agreed to lower the marginal tax even though it would appear to provide tax relief for the high-income groups and agreed that the extension of the tax base then made helped to create a healthier and better Norwegian economy. What has happened in recent years is that tax policy has again become a symbolism policy for the Workers' Party. Now Tore Nordtun is going to play Robin Hood and run around and take from the rich and give to the poor. The problem is that who are the rich have changed radically since October, when the agreement was concluded. Initially, it was not those who had employee income, but there were some groups of capital incomes, which were to be taxed by closing the gaps. So it was the whole Artist-Norway, who through the sharing model had seen an opportunity to reorganize, even though most of these reorganisations would de facto mean that if it was just to avoid the sharing model, they gave away money. And then finally, there was a high-wage employee. The problem with part of the changes and what has happened is — apart from introducing higher marginal taxes on employee income, which will lead to the problems known in the past, namely, attempts to circumvent taxation through other types of goods around the enterprises — that for the first time also a level of taxation has been introduced for that type of income, for example. in rural professions, which actually makes it beneficial for everyone to reorganise to be independent and then to bring in a towing partner in a sharing company and come out with a lower tax. Until the change that is made this year, it is actually not profitable to do all of these operations. How can the Workers' Party explain that their purpose is to ensure that even more people reorganize?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e670	Erna Solberg asked if there is a risk of reorganization following the decisions we are now making. Tax policy is arduous; it is demanding on the basis of several angles. But when we live in a society where there's a part that's professional in finding ways to avoid paying into the common fund, it's our job to put fences around, so that the common fund gets a part in, so that we can operate with redistribution and security and security in our society. I want to point out that next year, as I've heard the Government say and that is our demand, we're going to have a review of the tax system again. I do not imagine that with this compromise that we have reached with the Government, so much more will happen than has happened in the past. Let me do two-three examples. The shipping tax involved the sealing of some tax holes. The rule of identification in the split model was clearly the extension and tax gaps. It is not so difficult to see that when we introduced the third step in the tax, it was the absolute highest wage that had to be involved and contribute to the common fund. In other words, we got an impact on a part of our redistribution policy that was important to us. Not least, we have now taken a really good turn for those who serve at least in our society. Now we've been able to do that in the budget deal with the center parties. I think these people are going to notice very carefully that we've been running a redistribution policy here, which they're now going to appreciate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e679	It was Nordtun's review of the situation of the supplier industry and the oil industry that made me feel the need to take a line, because of course it's a very difficult situation when you get a fall in activity, as you've experienced. In particular, I believe that Nordtun's homelands are those who experience the most dramatic. Today it is reported from NTB that unemployment in Rogaland has increased by 43 p.m., and I guess that is mainly due to the supplier industry. But then again we have the opposite problem: how should it be possible to maintain activity in an industry that obviously lacks a job? Here's what surprises me, because many of the measures the Workers' Party is taking are right and targeted. You go into action areas, and we very much agree with that. You go in with the means of continuing training, and we agree to that in order to make the transition. Then you go into the CO2 tax, which is a relief for oil companies, but not a relief for the supplier industry. So you've let the oil companies push you, which says you have a too hard tax regime. Then you take an environmental tax and remove it in the hope that it will lead to a larger mission, which in itself is not a natural context. The industry in total uses the most is long-term. Nordtun even spent much of his time telling me how important predictability and long-termity are for business. But in an industry that has a variation from just over 30 billion SEK in investments to over 70 billion SEK – yes, even 74 billion SEK in investments last year – it is very difficult to have predictability. Then is my challenge to the Nordtun representative: At some point in the 1970s, we had something called the tempo committee, which had the task of trying to see how to allocate tasks forward in order for society, employees, businesses, the supplier industry and oil companies to have predictability. Wouldn't it not now, at a stage where the oil industry must necessarily be built down, be right to get a tempo sample again, so that we can see how to get the most resources and predictability into such a jo-jo-business? This is my challenge to the Nordtun representative.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e688	It's true, as Djupedal said and pointed out, the news from my county, Rogaland, is dramatic. There are probably several thousand workers now entering very difficult times, with layoffs and redundancies. The working party said this for approx. two and a half years ago. That's when you predicted those difficulties. I remember Djupedal, too, about that debate. It was not SV who stood the hardest on in the debate that took place here in Stortingen two and a half years ago – two years ago on the framework conditions for this industry. It is obvious that there are measures that need to be taken, and I refer to the package that we have launched. With regard to the CO2 tax and the production charges, it has been shown that it has to do with investments, it has to do with the belief in Norwegian capital, and it has to do with predictability. As you know, both the CO2 tax and the production tax have had elements in themselves of dwindling. It's important that we give the industry the signals now, so they can make the faith invest. It would have been preferable, as Djupedal said, to have a more even production in this industry and thus also a more even employment. Nothing would be better. But I must also say that we have parties, including: government parties, who have said before all the time that the North Sea investment rate had to fall dramatically. The majority of the population has meant something else. What is the industry going to believe in? The main question to Djupedal was whether you want to go in for a sample to serve the missions. I don't think that's the way to go. But I want to point out the discussion it will be about the oil message, I think that's when you want to put such leads.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e701	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e704	Norway is a very different country in Europe, and it is especially in two areas we are. In one area, we are stifled and can afford to invest in what is necessary – and that is an area where we are different in the good. But it's an area where we're at a different disadvantage, and it's about housing policy, or lack of housing policy. So in five years' time, social housing and support for social housing have been reduced by 70 pst. Other European countries have several times as many reasonable rental homes and student housing as we have, and in addition, all our neighbouring countries have a completely different investment in social housing. If you're alone now, or you're a newly educated teacher or nurse, there's almost no home that you can afford to buy without becoming a debt slave. The house bank has been relatively empty in recent years. Almost all municipalities, and also the state, have sold their plots at market prices. There's got to be a housing crisis of that kind. Most young people today have high debts when they finish their education, many of them actually have hundreds of thousands in debt. And now banks say no to mortgages, for example. new-educated teachers and nurses because they cannot cope with such a large mortgage at the top of the study debt. So they have to rent out. Renting often becomes much more expensive than buying, and it also makes it impossible to save the equity you need for once to enter the owner's market. There are very many involuntary consensual societies that arise in this way. People are actually forced to live together. It should probably worry the government a little bit. It is not everyone who sees this as a crisis, for many make good money in this crisis. They probably care little about what a student has to live on, or what an assistant serves. Many people may think that it is okay to pay NOK 5000 the month for a cab, or from NOK 7 000 to NOK 9 000 in expenses for an apartment. But this is almost impossible for very many young people and people with normal incomes. So the problem is that we almost completely lack rental homes in this country. The Norwegian housing market is completely different from most others, and we lack, to put it another way, financial debate, a structural element in the Norwegian housing sector. In Norway, almost all of their housing is owned, and it has a reason. Before that, there were a lot of cheap rentals, there were expensive and bad dwellings, and there were rented sharks/house sharks. No one should own the home of others, said Trygve Bratteli, and the overthrow of Norwegian housing policy. It went very well as long as you had regulated loans and a good stake in social housing policy, and you built a lot of homes. The old - fashioned regulations had to be removed, but at the same time the child was thrown out with the bath water. The entire social housing policy was also removed, and now very little such housing is being built. Then it's the market that controls what's almost most important for people, that you have to have a home, a place to live. It is now completely left to the market, and so a lot of things are not doing this fight. We also see that the government has made a difference message, which shows that the differences between people are increasing, that some are becoming extremely much poorer. Then, of course, too many people go wrong. And now we're almost back again where we were when this «all should own their own housing» policy was designed. Now we're there, so now a lot of people are giving up on the private landlords, who are taking sky-high prices. The bank owns your home and every penny you can scrape together in the foreseeable future. This has to be changed. There is now a need to fill in the House Bank with sufficient funding so that it is possible to build enough cheap rental properties in the country. At least 3,000 homes at half price should be built this year and up to 5,000 in the next few years, if you're going to have any opportunity to give people a choice, a choice perhaps between staying in a sleeping bag or on the sofa with your mother until you're 30, or having the opportunity to have your own key to their own home.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e727	The Labour Party and the Centre Parties agreed that it is good for countries and people with a budget agreement between us. It gives stability, tranquillity and order to the economy, and hopefully it also gives further interest reductions soon. We in the Workers' Party could have thought of an even greater redistribution from those who have good advice, to several of the welfare tasks, and distributed more to those who have little. But with the content of this budget agreement, the policy is moving in the right direction, some say towards the real centre. I actually expect that what is today described as a budget for a fairer distribution, is not set at zero next year, then with a budget agreement with the two right parties. I assume that we have actually seen a line shift in the center search for friends, and that we get a ‘justice’ that lasts. There is reason to rejoice with the Minister of Finance Restad said earlier in the debate here tonight – freely quoted: Only with the Labour Party one sheep for a better distribution – at least the Labour Party is easier than with the two right parties. Looking at the proposals of the two right parties, a cost cut that really affects the weakest — cut in sick pay, labour market measures, school leisure schemes, just to mention something. Their tax breaks also have a poor social profile. We are now entering the year 2000 with a fairer tax system, where some of the richer have to provide more to the community in the form of increased taxes. This is fully returned to those with low incomes, in the form of tax reliefs. In fact, 622 000 people have improved their finances, among others. because of the new salary deduction. Pensioners and social workers with lower incomes, up to DKK 160000 — or about half of pensioners — also receive tax relief. The specific tax reduction rule contributes to this and increases the rate of the minimum deduction from 21 to 22 pst. The social security person who has some income from work also enjoys the new salary deduction of NOK 30 600. About 20 pst. of the group of pensioners and social securityers, they have income in addition to social security and pensions. There is also reason to rejoice that, as a consequence of the budget agreement, municipalities will have something more to do with next year. I don't think what is now granted to the municipalities is enough in any way. On the contrary, I believe that Municipality of Norway will need many billions more in the coming years if we, in the world's richest country, are to boast of our welfare arrangements. All municipal politicians do these days sewing together their budgets. There's gloomy reading in the locals, and many come, understandably, in pure frustration here to the Stortinge to get help. Discussions about system failures in the income system, many nurturing, skewed age compositions are themes that go back. What's a fact is that there's a lot of millions missing around the world. It has to be cut into welfare schemes, there is too little money for care for the elderly, for school and for roads, and culture is on the blush. There's not going to be much cheaper kindergartens, and so is the school leisure system. That's why it's about one billion in increments to the municipalities almost just a drop in the ocean. So one might ask, is it for ambitious welfare tasks that we have imposed on the municipalities? I don't think so. They are competent and are likely to increase the requirements of users gradually. Is there an organisational issue where we can make ourselves more efficient for more well-being? I don't think that's the answer alone, although I also see that simplifications and smaller forms fields in Kommune-Norway would release many competent people to other tasks. Sees one, for example. in the counties and county councils, there are some double roles. There is a director of education and the head of county schools, both the head of road and the head of the community, both the county and the head of county health, etc. Probably well justified – but. If you look at the lack of health professionals today, there are about 7 000 vacancies in nursing and health protection. Taking into account what is needed to carry out the already adopted reforms in care and care, in 2030 we will need twice as many employees as we do today, with the challenges facing it. Therefore, next year's budget cannot just be a test of more justice. With the major challenges we face in solving the welfare problems and ensuring a fair pension for everyone through popular fear, in the next few years we need to get even more redistribution, even more money for education and knowledge building, and even more for those sitting at the bottom of the table. Only then will we become a proper welfare state.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e750	Who had believed that a government with a prime minister and a minister of health from the Christian People's Party would be the first government in decades to implement a regular policy of tightening up to Norwegian hospitals? Unfortunately, this appears to be the case in 2000. Worse still, this reality comes from the fact that the Labour Party is now behind such a policy, the Workers' Party, which sometimes claims to be the self-guaranteed guarantor of the welfare, health and care of ordinary peoples. I think I hear the protests of the government parties: what about stepping up the psychiatry? What about the cancer plan that this government has adopted? I guess that's good. But how can these good plans be realised with the funds provided by the State budget for hospitals in the year 2000? In addition to the inadequate budgetary resources, hospitals are required to cover their budget deficits for 1999, which, for regional hospitals alone, amount to 360 million. kr. The consequences are obvious. Elective patient treatment needs to be drastically reduced, and breaches of guarantees will increase dramatically. I repeat what I said in the introduction: for the first time in ten years, the majority in this room adds up to, among other things. sick people through reduced appropriations for our hospitals will have even longer waiting times in hospital queues. Such a health policy will not understand the Norwegian people, nor will the Progress Party accept such a policy. The size of the hospital cuts is currently unknown to anyone. The income system for Norwegian hospitals has become so complicated and complicated that hardly anyone, I think, in Stortinget is able to overlook the consequences of these schemes. The local government's Central Association claims that the cuts on the hospital budgets can be as much as 5 pst. An adequate volume increase that can offset unit prices in input-based financing and an efficiency requirement of 140 million. kr, which is embedded in the budget, I don't think it's possible to do anything about it. It is my prediction that the current government and the majority of the population are about to throw the country into a new health crisis. The extent of the problems will only be seen in the spring, when we begin to see the impact of the government budget combined with hospital closures for 1999. The majority has decided that if a Norwegian hospital treats several patients, they will also be paid correctly for it. Through the proposal in the State budget, it appears that the Government has forgotten this principle. Now the whole ISF system is being undermined by the fact that next year hospitals will have to do more to get as much money as last year. To put it another way: has the government lost faith in carrot since it now turns to using the whip, or is the reality that one will not spend more money on treating sick people? With an estimate, one does not have any problems with the budgetary balance in the State budget. From our hospitals there are still reports that the credibility of the new income system is deteriorating. Lack of predictability, changes that are so complex that no one knows the consequences, the problem of the so-called creep limit, lack of compensation for the use of new drugs and treatments, among others. expensive implant treatments are some examples of how difficult this has become. All of this gives cause for concern. Compared to gross domestic product, Norway uses little on health as compared to other OECD countries. A sickle shift is itself a big event. This century has given people in this country an incredible material prosperity development. But on the threshold of the new century, the national authorities and this vast majority still fail to provide ordinary people with the security of decent treatment when disease occurs. The Progress Party believes that hospitals should largely cover their budget deficits in 1999, and will make proposals to that effect. It is totally unacceptable that Norwegian hospitals should close hospital records and reduce their treatment capacity due to lack of money. If the necessary human resources are available for increased activity, the Storting must cut through the issue of the problems due to the county councils or the Stortinge by providing the necessary funds for the 1999 budget during an additional balancing process, so that all hospitals are struck by most of their deficits for 1999. In fact, I expect the Labour Party to support the proposals of the Progress Party in this way, and I will be very surprised if that does not happen. For the Progress Party, health and old age security is a fundamental pillar that we give priority to all other areas of society in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e778	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e781	The representative John Alvheim and I share a common concern and challenge. This relates in particular to the resource situation in healthcare and hospitals, such as Alvheim was very concerned about in his post. The funding of patient treatment in hospitals takes place in partnership between the state and the county in a 50 – 50 distribution. Now I know that the Progress Party does not like the county council, but sees a big state bureaucracy as a substitute for it. The reality should also have been raised by the Progress Party, namely that the majority of the population does not intend to close the county in 2000. Nevertheless, both through cuts of SEK 3.6 billion in the municipal economy and through large tax reliefs, the Progress Party brutally cuts in the county economy. This will make it even more difficult for hospitals. After all, we see what the scheme for 1999, as the Progress Party was behind, has resulted in a deficit in our hospitals. The county councils do not have the opportunity to defend their share of the costs of patient treatment. The promotion party wants to privatise the healthcare system, with the risk that the services outside the highest population concentrations will decrease and provide lower health care. I would like to ask the representative Alvheim: is starvation of county municipalities a means of privatising Norwegian hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e790	Let me start with the last and answer the representative Asmund Kristoffersen: the party of progress has never said, never written and never meant to privatize public health. What we've said, and what we've agreed to, is to get stronger complements of private health services in different areas. No, neither will the Progress Party bring down the county council by tormenting it for destruction. In addition, we have too much respect for patients, as the county council is currently responsible for treating them. With regard to the hunger feeding of the county council by the Progress Party, it is also not correct – if the representative Asmund Kristoffersen has followed the alternative draft budget of the Progress Party, both this year and in the previous two years. This year we are adding 3.4 billion kroner to health and care for county municipalities and municipalities. So we have no bad conscience when it comes to following up the tasks in the hospital and care sector for which the county and municipality are to be responsible. That we want to remove the county municipality is right. We've wanted that for a long time. What's interesting and positive is that several parties now realize that it has to do, even far into the Workers' Party. In my own county, the group leader of the Workers' Party is now going in to assess the closure of the county municipality, because one sees, first, that the county municipality is too small a unit to operate hospitals, and, secondly, that the county municipality is very expensive in operation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e802	The representative Alvheim has a clear commitment to the weak in society – not just in words. I respect him for that, and it affects his efforts in health policy, where we can partly disagree with the funds, but not with the target. But I am seriously concerned about the Party's charging policy, which will not promote our common public health objectives. The proposals for alcohol levies made by the Party in the budget of the year represent a reduction of between 30 and 40 p.m. on the strongest goods. In the case of drinks with a lower alcohol concentration, the Advance Party will partly eliminate the fees completely, and partly reduce them by more than 50 pst. In the case of tobacco, the lot will reduce the fees by 46 pst. for smoking tobacco up to 78 pst. for snuffs, which will lead to a price reduction per year. package of 19 SEK for cigarettes, 25 SEK for snuff and 32 SEK for tobacco. Reduced taxes on tobacco and alcohol either lead to a reduction in income for the country or to an increase in consumption. I am ignoring the much-mentioned trade leakage to Sweden, as most of us have the joy of living at a relatively large distance from the Swedish border. I am aware that the government has also seen need to adjust some of the alcohol charges. However, experience shows that reductions in fees of a size to which the Advance Party adds will increase the consumption of alcohol and tobacco, especially in young people, where the price is a particularly decisive factor for consumption. And this is not good health policy. Researchers at the State Institute for Alcohol and Drug Research have calculated that a reduction in the price of alcohol to approx. a quarter above the German level would result in approximately a doubling of the number of alcohol-related deaths in Norway, from about one quarter above the German level, from around one third to another. 2 000 to approx. Four thousand. In the case of tobacco, it causes more than 7,000 deaths in Norway every year, i.e. about one death every hour. My question to Mr. So Alvheim becomes: does the Progress Party include health, and therefore health-economic, effects in the assessment of its charging policy?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e813	It was a lot at once from the representative Are Næss. I think the representative spoke up at the outset. We agree on the objectives, but on the one hand, we disagree on the means to achieve the objectives. As far as I can see, the representative said the exact opposite, but that's okay. Not unexpectedly, I get a line against myself from the Christian People's Party, almost the same every year from different representatives. In terms of taxes on alcohol and tobacco, our aim is not to remove taxes, but to try to get down to a Swedish level, such as: has the side effect of reducing trade leakage and, above all, smuggling of both alcohol and tobacco. I do not have the expertise to cope with the number of deaths of various poisons in both tobacco and alcohol, as the representative Are Næss preferred here, but I must honestly admit that both alcohol and tobacco abuse cause health damage. I guess there's no disagreement about that. But these are, after all, legal goods in a free democratic society, and then I think it is fair that prices are also proportionate to the prices in our neighbouring country and elsewhere in Europe. We cannot ban either tobacco or alcohol, but we can very well keep the fees at a level that is similar to our nearest neighbouring country. And then you don't have to forget, when you think about the health damage and the cost to society from both smoke and alcohol, is big and covers most of the hospital stays. [[The President Clubs Again]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e824	The President requests the speakers to remain within the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e827	I also share the concern of the representative Alvheim and the assessment of the situation in our hospital. The Progress Party and the Right agree with many of the health policies, including: that the State should assume responsibility for, if not the ownership of, the hospitals and that the county municipality can be closed down. Thanks to the Progress Party and the Right, we have now managed to fund hospitals, which has stimulated increased activity and more treated patients. But it is important that this system does not become discredited. It is now that no financial instruments are perfect and so far the evaluation of input-driven funding shows that there is a need to improve the mechanism to ensure increased patient treatment and reduced waiting time. On the right, there is a need to improve the system on several points. Firstly, the rates need to be increased to at least 60 p.m., and secondly, funding should go directly to hospitals. In addition, the Right considers that a system of differentiated unit prices for DRG reimbursement should be developed which takes into account the major hospitals, such as regional hospitals, which treat patients with more complex diseases and thereby more costly treatment. My question to the representative Alvheim is whether we can count on the support of the Progress Party for a proposal on differentiated unit prices for DRG reimbursement. This could provide more resources for regional hospitals, and there is a greater need for this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e838	It was a very pleasant line, and it is in essence a pity for Health-Norway that the government parties have abandoned the two parties that have faced a forward-looking health policy in this process over several years. I can without further saying that the Progress Party will fully support the proposal that was now announced by the Right. I think it is a proposal that is absolutely necessary. And of course, in terms of the percentage of ISF, we will also support it – 60 pst. It is also a proposal we have in our own draft budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e845	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e848	Labour market developments are so far in line with those laid down in the 2000 national budget. I am pleased to note that the actual unemployment trend is somewhat better than expected. The development is characterised by a two-fold division. In parts of industry, employment is declining, while in large parts of the service sector and in public service production, employment growth is increasing. Although nearly 4,000 more are available at the same time last year, the unemployment rate is still only 2.5 pst. The labour market imbalance particularly affects the Agder counties and Rogaland, and has affected men to a greater extent than women. This is a serious development that I have taken up with the tools I have in labour market policy. A particularly high fall in oil investment is leading to lower activity in the yard industry and in oil-related industries, which have more than one industry in the past. I believe that a significant part of the problems facing these industries are of a structural nature. My impression is that there is a broad consensus that current capacity is higher than what appears to be a market base for the coming years. This is also necessary to address problems. The government is well in the process of following up the problems in these parts of the labour market. For 2000, we want to establish labour market policies to counter increased unemployment resulting from economic and geographical imbalances and to mobilise labour into job vacancies. I have asked the labour market seat to intensify the dissemination efforts aimed at people who become unemployed in offshore shipyards and suppliers. As some of these people will need to acquire new skills, we have proposed in the 2000 budget some funding for qualification measures aimed at people from the yard industry and oil-based supplier industries who become, or are at risk of becoming, unemployed. In addition, training will be given to employees and leave to ensure key industry competence when the new tasks come. The budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Government provides the basis for stepping up this effort. I'm very happy about that. I will follow developments in the labour market closely, focusing in particular on developments in the oil-based industry. If development beyond winter differs from what we expect, the Government will return to the Stortinget with any further action in the revised national budget. In our budget line, the disabled are a priority target group. Over the last few years, with a sharp reduction in labour market measures for ordinary people, we have stepped up efforts towards people with disabilities. We have proposed to continue this effort – I point in particular to the efforts towards people with disabilities with complex problems and a high level of assistance needs, and people with variable working skills without any prospect of prompt improvement. People with psychiatric disorders should be offered a better offer in line with the mental health escalation plan. This must also be seen in the context of the follow-up to the Equalisation message. We're going to start a long-term wage subsidy experiment aimed at people with complex problems and variable working skills. Such a measure, together with our other measures, will be able to provide even better opportunities for many people with disabilities, to the satisfaction of individuals and society. In the context of the ‘Simplifying Norway’ programme launched by the Government this summer, I will draw attention to the objective of making it easier and less resource-intensive for municipalities, businesses, organisations and individuals to deal with government administration. There are more than one hundred small and larger projects under ‘Simplify Norway’. We have also asked our users and co-workers to give us ideas for more action. My department has a special responsibility to improve the relationship between administration and individuals. Management needs to provide users with better information, streamline and coordinate their services, and reduce the burden on users of data collection. Two projects I would like to mention in particular. One is that state agencies should have service declarations by the end of 2000. Such statements may be seen as ‘facts of merchandise’ from state agencies. They shall show users what the establishment does and what level of service it will hold in relation to important matters such as process times and other waiting times. This is in good hands in all state institutions. The second project is public service agencies, which aim to coordinate public services for the benefit of users and to facilitate the availability of state services throughout the country. We hope that such offices will be established throughout the country within a reasonable time. [[The President clubs]] There's five million left over. kr for the establishment of public service offices in the municipalities [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e874	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e877	Representatives of the Government and government parties have underlined in several speeches today that Norway has a good economy. We have a low price rise, we have a relatively low interest rate, virtually no inflation, etc. But the willingness to share the honor with others has not been quite striking. This is why it is appropriate to highlight the crucial role played by the trade union movement — not least in the fight against unemployment. Without the solidarity and moderation of the trade union movement, we would not have had Europe's lowest unemployment today. It is therefore alarming and worrying that the government is constantly acting so as to push the trade union movement away. The last advance in this way is the attack on the AFP scheme. Select here the Government by clicking without delay to terminate one party. The government has mentioned several good reasons for changing the scheme. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State Davøy if she does not see any good reasons to play with the trade union movement in the time to come. Of course, it is desirable for older workers to remain longer in work, but there are better ways to achieve this than to attack welfare schemes that have been established after constructive cooperation with a responsible trade union movement. I have recorded that the council has stated that she wants a good dialogue with the trade union movement, but then she should well reach out an open hand, and not what is perceived as a tied fist. Can the Council of State promise that she will make sure that the Government respects agreements concluded between and with the social partners? The answer to my two questions is crucial for future development, not just in terms of the economy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e886	I have no difficulty in praising the professional movement for the efforts they have made in the years that have gone by, in terms of wage development and economics, and that we can actually say today that we have a good economy in society. It is true that the Government has signalled some changes to the AFP scheme. It is also true that agreements on the AFP system have been concluded with the trade union movement. I want to say that I was at a large cartel conference last night that LO held, where we discussed senior policy, and where I, among other things. invited the trade union movement to cooperate in precisely caring for older workers — ready to provide incentives to keep more people in the labour market. We also have major problems with many older people who are being pushed out of work, who actually want to work. We have signaled some changes to the AFP system, and I can answer yes to the representative's questions about whether we want to cooperate with the trade union movement. So let's do that. Last night, I invited the trade union movement and LO to join and discuss pension issues, including the measures we have proposed in the national budget. There has been a problem in the Olsen Committee, which we had some time ago, that the main organisations signed up for this work. It is also true that the LO did not want to be consulted afterwards by the Olsen Committee. I have invited them – at the latest yesterday and also earlier – and I am ready to discuss at any time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e895	I have two questions to the Davay State Council as a specialist minister and one question to the Davay State Council as a Christian People's Party politician. First of all, the Council of State referred to the project ‘Simplifying Norway’ in its article. What is the reason why the regulations of the Accounting Act have made everyday life more complicated for businesses? According to the NHO, the regulations will be very costly for businesses, and it is about billions of them. Question no. 2: State Council Davøy referred to the AFP scheme, and when I hear the Council of State, I realize that she will discuss with someone, but the problem is that then the Government must have a vision. When I listen to the Government Council of Davøy and read the government parties' comments on the AFP scheme, I find no position. At least you have to meet with an attitude. I read from the government's national budget that at least there is a need to tighten something up on the AFP system, but when I hear the government council, I don't notice any of this. Therefore, this direct question: is the Council of State in favour of everything contained in the Government's budgetary documents on the AFP scheme? Last question: Representatives of the Christian People's Party have repeatedly said from this interlocutory that the Right's budget option was not an invitation to cooperation with the Bondevik government. I don't understand, because some of our proposals were actually taken from the Christian People's Party program. And how can it be an insult to a Bondevik government to make suggestions from the Christian People's Party program? Then the conditions of power must have changed dramatically. It would be exciting to gain insight into these conditions of power as we now experience taking, for example. part of the sick pay scheme or the reduction of housing tax, which is taken from the Christian People's Party's programme – yes, it's more in the Christian People's Party's programme, it says, like in the Right, that you want to remove the tax on housing benefits. We have now been more modest in our alternative and actually suggested not to increase it, which one might think was a contribution in the Christian People's Party direction. There were three questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e909	We have launched ‘Simplify Norway’, which I have already said consists of over 100 projects, and the representative asks why there are so many difficult regulations in the Accounting Act. I'm sure the Minister of Finance could have responded much better than me, I don't know the details so well. But what I can say is at least that any proposal for action in different areas – economics, organisation, anything – we accept thanks. We also have a number of changes in economic conditions and regulation related to this. So if the representative has proposals to agree on how we can move forward, we will also accept them from big business representatives. There are many schemes that are complicated. Then to the AFP scheme. We have a vision, but in this budget we have put forward some suggestions for discussion, without us proposing a decision right here and now. It's just for getting a dialogue. It's also to invite both the Storting and others who have opinions, to say how we're going to proceed. We see that we have to do something under the AFP system, and I actually think that part of the trade movement and other political parties see it. We may not agree on all the measures we have wanted to discuss. Well, it's got to be. At least something has to be done. In the case of the Right Budget, it's fine if the Right has taken part in the Christian People's Party programme, then we expect that we will also receive support for some. But I have to say that there is also a whole series of proposals in the Right Budget that are directly contrary to the Christian People's Party – I mention u-help as one example.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e920	The Equalisation Communication states that the main cause of increasing poverty is a combination of lack of work and poor health. The proposition to the Minister of Labour and Administration also states that labour market measures are effective, i.e. that the chance of getting a job increases if one is on the job. It is then with great amazement that the government is making a proposal saying that unemployment should increase by 10,000 and the measures only by 500, i.e. that you increase the passive daily allowance and take the chance that more people are not going to work. This is also the case for people with disabilities, where the figure has been over 54 000 for many years, and where it is now increasing. What is the reason why the Government had to have help in the budgetary conciliation to correct the worst weaknesses of this? Is it so that the Government will not use the mechanism that they themselves say works? So the second question: the community economics proposition in ours showed that the municipal sector, the public sector, should get that share of the expected labour force to cope with the reforms ahead, they need an increase of 2 percentage points of the labour force, and there is twice as much room in the macro-economy. In other words, there will be an alarming shortage of public sector employees — doctors, nurses, teachers, etc.? How will the Council of State, as Minister of Labour, address this? What kind of action does the Minister of Labour have to take to ensure that the public sector is not completely depleted, so that classrooms are not reasonably empty for teachers, and that hospitals are not depleted for help nurses and nurses?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e929	First, I would like to point out that as Minister of Labour, of course, I am pleased that in the budget agreement we have also been given more job-unemployment-related action places. Of course, the representative raises an important question when she connects the assumption for the number of unemployed with the fact that, in her opinion, there are too few action areas on the part of the Government. We've looked at the whole of the labour market measures, as the labour market law works today. What we have seen in recent years is that there has been a strong increase in the emphasis on dissemination, and it has proved to be very effective. It is also true that in Norway today we have a number of areas where there is a shortage of labour, and it has proved to be effective when we have been able to communicate. There have been as many as 144 000 individuals in 1998 and even more will be disseminated in 1999. I also want to point out that we have a strongly targeted effort in the labour market. We give priority to young people and the long-term unemployed. We also give priority to disabled people. In terms of recruitment to the public sector and the problems related to some groups, there will be too little time to address all the measures, but I would like to refer to the action plans for health professionals in the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs. A number of measures have been proposed here. As Minister of Labour, I still want to pursue a good human resources policy and try to be a good employer for all public employees in the government sector.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e940	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e943	In connection with the last two budgets, the central government has chosen to cooperate with the Right and the Progress Party. As a result, we have had a historic low when it comes to kindergarten development, labour market measures have been severely reduced, part-time workers’ sick pay has been abolished, school-time arrangements have been significantly more expensive for parents, and this has been cut in funds for training with hundreds of millions of dollars. At the national meeting of the Labour Party last autumn, we adopted the Programme for Fair Distribution. The budgetary agreement concluded by the Labour Party with the Centre Party this year is a step in the right direction, and it is a step towards following up a more equitable distribution. We've got several free funds for municipalities and county councils, there have been several dollars for kindergarten development, there are several crowns for school leisure arrangements, there are several crowns for university and high schools, and there are actually several crowns to build student housing for. In fiscal policy, redistribution means that those who have much must be involved and contribute to those who have less. Those who have little should actually be satisfied. Taxes of over $1 billion for those with the lowest wage income are really a big one, and that means tax bills of $4,300 for wages of $75 000. A salary deduction of NOK 30 600 is just a first step in a tax reform for the lowest wage earners. This means that part-time employees, students, pensioners who have paid work, will have more in the payroll bag when they are taxed. And when someone gets light, someone has to pay. Two billion dollars has the most people, can afford to pay. New top taxes for those who charge over NOK 762,700 can be very well defended. The removal of the AMS scheme has been difficult to implement in the past, but this year the Labour Party has closed down to do so. It's a very nice redistribution. It is not true that the Labour Party has had the entire program implemented – in close proximity! We have a lot of work to do before we've achieved it, but it's taking steps in the right direction. So with the agreement that we have reached, it has been a better distribution. And from 1 January next year, part-time workers will again be entitled to receive sick pay when they are ill. It has long been clear that the situation in the shipbuilding and offshore industries is difficult. Permits and cancellations we see all over the West. The government has not taken this seriously. We in the Labour Party created in the context of the management of the revised national budget a business package that applied both to food and employment measures, which we got in spite of in the Government. More specifically for offshore industries, reducing CO2 taxes and bringing them into quota arrangements, reducing production charges and reviewing fiscal policies for this industry were involved. In addition to that, we said that the fishing ports had to get more permits, there had to be more student housing, and we had to increase funding for education, higher education and university. In the negotiations now in the fall, we have spent a lot of time on getting a comprehensive employment package from the Labour Party, so that we can also manage these areas. There will be a reduction in investment in the offshore sector. It's something that everyone knows, but we have to take care of the competences that exist there, so that in a few years you don't have to rebuild the competences that are now being reduced. I understood at the Council of State Davøy that she was well pleased with the package that the Labour Party had created with the Government, and it is important that one get to see this into life so that there is less possible harm for those who have been added to this sector and for those who are also to maintain their competence further. Then to the AFP scheme. There is an agreement between the social partners, and I have to say that I was very surprised when the Council of State Davøy said that she would take the initiative to cooperate with the trade unions on this. We've got a whole range of trades going on. They have previously reported on how they wish to conclude this agreement, and an agreement has been reached with the employer. The state – big business, government – has joined it, and if anyone goes around and thinks that 20,000 – 25,000 employees in this country are going to be able to ruin the Norwegian economy, it's not just to be hard on, it's actually to say something that's completely wrong. Too many of these workers are worn out after a long life in a heavy industry, for example, and one has made an agreement to get them off at 62 years. It's actually spending money that they could have taken out in pay, to make a pension for. We in the Labour Party have clearly entered in the budget note that this system should not be pushed away, and that one should continue to cooperate with the social partners. Here the government has received support from the Right and the Advance Party in a comment that says that the government can come back with the proposals that they have not dared to make now. I have to say that if the Government comes back with them, it means that it's the Right and the Advance Party they want to have multiples with and not the Labour Party. How, then, have the other parties discussed this agreement that has now been established, which provides a better distribution, more for well-being and joint action and less for private action? I must say that I was positively surprised by Minister of Finance Restad when he almost just talked about how good this agreement was. That's great. The left is a little bit more backward and says that they have dropped cheaply from this. It's a strange characteristic that you've done so much good in so many areas, that you're talking about a little bit of a percentage change. It is clear that by making this a percentage debate, much needs to be changed before you can get in the right direction. But here's the important principle of distribution policy that you've managed to turn into a real mess, and so maybe the Left is not as happy with this agreement as the Center Party is. And I must say that the Rise of the Christian People's Party well took the leaf from his mouth when he said that they had invited Right also to government cooperation. It now has Foss taking the distance from, because he was not present at the Adultåsen because I understand. It is a little strange to sit and listen to this debate today, how the different government parties emphasise this agreement. But it's also good to note that those in the government think it's good, while perhaps some of those in the big room don't think it's so good what they've promised to do about change. What's most important in time is to see what the government is thinking about the political partners, what kind of direction they're going to go in. If they want a better distribution – and there are a lot of people here in this room – they can only be closed with it in a collaboration between the center party and the working party. It's been bad from the leader of the Center Party and also from several others. Changing the course from one year to another costs too much. If a year goes to the right and gives large tax credits and reduces on the common good, then to the next year to increase the common good again and distribute taxes in another way, there will be a pretty lot of winging out of it, there will be little security. Therefore, my advice is that the central government must continue this rate at which they have entered: more to the community and a better distribution when it comes to fiscal policy. But the government has to show that they want a change in that direction and not just that they take the multiple where it might be.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e974	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e977	The e-presentant Ranveig Frøiland has been very central to the negotiations with the central parties in order to reach a budgetary settlement, as it is called. She may therefore have had a strong influence on the result that has been obtained. It seems to me that having a deal has been crucial rather than getting a result. The Labour Party would like to talk about what they call solidarity. Now what is that? Could that not be the result of the budgetary conciliation? Does the Labour Party think that if you tax the so-called rich harder, without giving relief to them not rich, it is a solidarity option? In its draft budget, the Progress Party has made it easy for those who do not have too much, for example. Young families and pensioners, in the form of lower general housing taxes and lower electricity charges — that is, the opposite of what the Workers' Party has done. Then I have to ask the representative of Frøiland: Does the Labour Party and the representative of Frøiland believe that the Progress Party will remain the party that will take care of the least favoured in society, and where has it become of solidarity?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e986	At first I want to thank someone for thinking that I have an impact here, it can happen occasionally. I think the result is the most important thing, and I can defend the result that one has achieved in the conciliation. I think I used about my entire post to tell you what the result would have been. We're going to build several kindergartens for next year, there's more to the school leisure system, more to free income, which the municipalities themselves can use for the school if that's what they want to give priority to. There will be more to employment and more to the unemployed, in the form that we have created a large package for them. I would never dare, if I were among those who had the least in society, to trust the Progress Party, because it has turned out that there actually has one least to pick up. Now we've gotten an average of a payoff to those who have the least. This is the first step towards reform – NOK 30 600 in direct pay cuts. It's very good for those who think little. If they have a small salary in addition to their pension, they are taxed, and students and part-time employees also receive it. So one might say that one has redistributed, because it has one really done. It's not all the world with $2 billion more from those who have a lot, and it's not all the world with $1 billion in taxes, but it's going in the right direction. And no one should be able to say that the Labour Party is not the party that defends those who have the least, and who have always been concerned that we should have a fairer distribution. In fact, there are many people in our country who think a lot and who can contribute more to the community. That is what we have been doing this year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e997	In the budgetary position of the Committee on Energy and the Environment for 1998-99, we can read the following in the Workers' Party's comments: ‘These members indicate that price increases affect price growth. These members believe that the outlook for the Norwegian economy next year suggests that one should be cautious about charging increases that contribute to further price increases. The special cost developments and the risk of international setbacks suggest that Norwegian business is facing major challenges in the coming years. The working party is therefore in favour of significant improvements in the charging scheme in relation to the Government’s proposal. In total, the Workers' Party's proposal for charging arrangements provides for some 2,9 billion reliefs. crowns in relation to the arrangements of the Government.’;» It's next year we get drama in Norwegian business. The representative Nordtun said when he was standing here, that it is dramatic what affects the county from which he comes, and that thousands of jobs are at risk. We experience this at the same time as the Workers' Party has a tax and tax increase of 600 million compared to the Government's budget. NOK – up to NOK 3.5 billion. What kind of downcast is the Workers' Party taking on this matter? The representative of Frøiland said himself: it costs too much to change the course. What kind of course change is it for Norwegian business and for Norwegian jobs what we see here from the Workers' Party? So all the way to the end. Can Right expect to receive the Workers' Party's support in the Document No. The 8 proposal now under assessment, which is based on the possibility of building gas power plants in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1011	Last year, if I don't think completely wrong, the Right Government supports Bondevik when it came to a cabinet issue in connection with increasing the CO2 charges. They came to another result when they thought about it, and of course they agreed to reduce it. There are different situations in different years. That's why I wouldn't shout so loud if I were Johnsen. It has happened that the Right also has been involved in some things that you have later seen have not been the best thing for the industry. Last year the situation was different, I'll say, too much of our business. It was important not to increase taxes, and it was important not to increase taxes. I think that the course that the Government has organized with the government party has been willing to take here in the Stortinget, turning towards the Labour Party from the Right, has been very important for the business as well. No one can say with their hands on their hearts that business is getting a much worse situation for next year than they've had this year. We have taken care that we have a business that should have proper framework conditions. We've done a little bit in relation to the fleet tax that's been in real bad shape, and then we've done a little bit with the sharing model that can be well defended. We have increased some of the charges in relation to the level of charges we currently have, but the jam has reduced some of the charges in this proposal as well as the compromise that is leading. I agree with the representative that it is dramatic within some industries, but we have done so with measures in place with the government party, not least with labour market measures and empowerment. I did not get an answer to the question about gas power plants, but we are for that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1025	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1028	This year’s budgetary settlement, unlike the way the conciliators like to produce it, will involve a major attack on the economy of families with children. Why did the Workers' Party find the time to accept the cash support, in order to enter the center compartment? The reason was to give the Norwegian people a better distribution policy, especially in view of groups that have a difficult economy. Children’s families were clearly a priority target group to benefit from the new distribution policy. Prominent representatives of the Labour Party – now last Ranveig Frøiland – have reiterated this argument in today's debate. In this argument, too, a settlement with the Right would weaken the economy of families with children. At the same time, the Christian People's Party wants to be the best friend and benefactor and market itself as a family party. Then I find it alarming and revealing that the budget agreement entails a loss for the families of children of NOK 1.1 billion. This loss is even greater when we consider the happy messages about increased electricity tax, increased housing tax and increased petrol tax, which will be particularly severe for families with children. The right was involved in the investigation of an extension of child rights to 18 years of age, but we reserved the right to consider how the specific proposals would turn out. We've done that, and the result isn't much to jump on the roof for. Next year, the child-restraint rates will be reduced, so that you only get 9 948 kroner for the first and second children against 11 112 kroner today. For the third and the following children, the rate is reduced from NOK 13 092 to NOK 10 994 per year. As child benefit is extended to 18 years, the allowance for children between 16 and 18 years of age is reduced from NOK 2 540 to DKK 1 820. In a letter to the Right Grandningsgruppe that we received today, dated 24 November, the Minister for Children and Family Affairs has replied to what the change in child welfare over 18 years will be compared to a pay-adjusted continuation of today's child welfare. If you take a three-child family, this family will lose 35 938 kroner on the Workers' Party and the government's child benefit settlement. The result of the agreement is therefore a poor family policy and a poor distribution policy. The right-hand option is to keep the current system of child protection. We also want to keep the allowance in tax, which the Government originally proposed to remove. Our option is to strengthen the families' economy by 500 million. kr in relation to the Government’s proposal. Through the agreement with the Workers' Party, the Government has managed to weaken the economy of families with children by an additional 400 million. kr in addition to the reduction of 700 million. kr that was included in the original draft budget. It seems that the government will send the bill for cash support to families with older children. It was not the intention behind the cash support agreement that was concluded between the government parties, the Right and the Advance Party. Otherwise, as case rapporteur for the cash support, I have to be satisfied with two things. The year 2000 will be the first year in which all the elements of the cash support are in place under the much-mentioned agreement that was concluded. Next year, NOK 3000 will be paid per year. Children per day month for those who choose to withdraw full cash support. In addition, a few will put in place the freedom of choice by receiving a five-part cash subsidy. The other joy is that the Workers' Party and, in particular, the leader of the party seems to have accepted cash support as an important and necessary welfare reform. Last year, the cash support rates were significantly lower than they would be in the next year's budget. Nevertheless, the Workers' Party finds reason to accept the cash support for the following year. I would rather have trouble with the fact that in the family committee there is still considerable resistance to the cash support from the working party team. We'll be able to live with that. We have an agreement that ensures the cash support in the future. One thing that worries me is the operating situation of the private kindergartens. It's going to be throwing blues in the eyes of people when the government and the Workers' Party put off $45 million. kr for incentives for new kindergartens, when at the same time in the same budget proposal it is pointed out that 14 pst. private kindergartens are at risk of being closed down because they have such a bad economy. We have proposed 227 million in our budget. as a special grant to private kindergartens, in order to facilitate the operating situation somewhat pending the kindergarten announcement submitted before Christmas. I have recorded that the cooperating parties will also consider using the 45 incentivising millions for the operation of private kindergartens, and hope that that will be the conclusion. Finally, I would like to say that the current budgetary settlement is a step in the wrong direction with regard to the conditions of families with children. The agreement involves poor distribution policies and poor family policies.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1049	We're going into a new century with a unclear situation for the country in a number of areas. We have a minority government that wings from side to side in politics and has made it its policy, with the lack of this, of course, in predictability and long-termity. This also easily spreads to other areas that depend on policy guidelines and decisions. We have noticed this in several areas, where there is more and more focus on Storting as the body that needs to draw up guidelines that normally have a government to provide. Above all, we are in a period when our business life, in line with the business life of other countries, is seeking cross-border cooperation and interaction – a business life that, in such a situation, is uncertain as to the policy of the Norwegian government, among others. as regards the involvement of the State and the support of the authorities. Furthermore, we are in a period when the offshore and yard industry undergoes major shifts for various reasons, which require more than anything else that society's guidelines are just safe, supportive and forward-looking, and where there is a concrete willingness to increase competence to ensure that top-notch competence remains in the regions along with the necessary labour market measures. Through the agreement between the Workers' Party and the Government, the industry has been given the hope that these are economic areas that our country needs, and where we have competence in the world class. Then we do not have to take care of ourselves so that we lose competence and competitive advantages, which one in particular in the West has laboriously built up over the years. In the field of fairer distribution, which is particularly about people's everyday lives, the Government was clearly not satisfied with the cooperation they had with the right parties, as was stated by government members in the presentation of the so-called difference message. When it came to a better distribution of goods and responsibilities, it was only with the Workers' Party that one could achieve this. This was repeated by Minister of Finance Restad in a reply earlier today. It's not hard to agree with the Government. [[Grete Knudsen]] This formed, among other things: the basis for the agreement we are discussing today. As you know, a broad educational effort has always been one of the cornerstones of the Workers’ Party’s bet – no less in the years to come. In this area, the equation has given a rotation in the right direction. We have turned a reduction in education into a commitment to both more resources for municipalities and municipalities responsible for primary and secondary education, respectively, and given increased funds for conversion and decentralised higher education at a time when we know that both higher education and skills development in the labour market will accelerate. And as a result of the budgetary agreement, a lending scheme will be launched for schoolbooks to provide free schoolbooks to young people entitled to secondary education, to mention some of the elements of the budget agreement. But more importantly, we've turned our direction around. Because it could seem that the Government was entering into educational policy cooperation with the right parties on the very direction of education policy, which they have not done before. That school has the right parties standing alone, and we have not heard that the teacher organisations have wanted to go into the future with the answers of the past. We will continue to develop the school for everyone, in cooperation with the Government and the Teachers' Organisations. But that doesn't mean we're satisfied with the situation in school. We are concerned about a work situation at school that is unsafe for both students and teachers, at a time of violent changes that require a lot of those in school. We have an educational community, and much indicates that the societies of the future are becoming even more educational societies. We will not minimize the results achieved on the education front. Statistics show enormous quantitative growth, which has also been a democratization. Henrik Wergeland wrote that the bookcase is the ladder by which you can become your superior's like. Through the reforms of the education system, we have raised this ladder, so that everyone can have opportunities. This work must continue and it must be intensified. Both emphasising the learning process itself, more responsibility for each student through active participation, more interaction between school, enterprise and community, and more help through more teachers, so that teachers can face a work situation that is safe, including professional, because more parts of responsibility will therefore be central. In this budget, proposals for experimenting with several teaching resources are being made into school – a long-term approach advocated by the Workers' Party, hoping to further develop the projected youth trials into a reform that can ensure adapted training for all, within the community of public schools. We also support the follow-up to the new continuing training reform that the authorities and the social partners have come up with. The fact that the reform is now being followed by a legal right for all those who have not been given the opportunity before is positive. Being able to receive secondary education is a handshake for the different stages of work the movement has struggled for over the years, but for which there has not been a majority so far. But the government is changing its former position – fortunately! The teacher and teacher role are important, and we look at the school content, the work environment problems, and we get a fairly clear picture. Good schools, good educational institutions, depend on good teachers. We must therefore be interested in the teaching function, how training is organised and also put the spotlight on the role of the school manager within the education system, depending on the fact that the school is available to the students. About the less sweet lives of the teachers, we've heard a lot lately, signals that we take in the deepest seriousness. And it's a rather gloomy picture that comes to the public when teachers portray their everyday lives: poor pay, dissatisfaction, workload and teacher mobility. Similarly, we cannot say that teacher stability is low in school. That means that many still want to be in this divisive profession. We know that for many, the teaching profession is still a good profession. Our responsibility should now be to be able to bring together a broad majority of the Stortingen on the way forward when we are now discussing teacher recruitment, just to ensure that young teachers want to go into school. But then we have to interact with the teacher organisations, also in order to get the positive it is working with children and young people. So the practical sorrows of the teachers and some pleasures we get plenty of opportunities to come back to when we're going to discuss just this teacher recruitment message that the Workers' Party proposed to the Stortinget. However, several party groups have already gone to the barricades and made promises of both DKK 50000 and DKK 100000 in pay supplements, and have turned to the large heights so that the expectations of the teacher organisations and of the individual teachers in school are now that the Stortinge will make an action plan for better pay. I hope that during the budget debate we can agree that existing driving rules in the labour market still apply, so that in this house we can enter into a working situation with regard to this message that does not lead to disappointments or to expectations before the payroll that no one can now understand the consequences of, and that none of us here in this house will negotiate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1087	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1090	At the outset, the representative, Knudsen, said that there is now international cross-border trade between businesses and that there is a need for dynamism, action and stability on the part of the Government. I fully agree with that. But the equivalent should probably also apply to the Storting, I believe. Perhaps then the representative Knudsen should answer why the Labour Party in a matter such as this. The Norwegian banking structure — but it may not be business — can make a decision like what we've seen, after a process in which you've been in the Stortinge hiking hall and made yourself very attractive, and created the impression that now we're going to think about it carefully, and then get to the point. Apparently you have to do it – and then there's a decision that doesn't say anything. If you're going to interpret it a little favourably, the decision says: we might consider selling the credit card, but before we do, we're going to ensure a Norwegian solution – in a situation where the state owns 60 pst. by DnB, and in other words you have full control over a possible Norwegian solution. What does the representative Knudsen mean by the fine, beautiful words about the power of action and stability of the authorities, when not even the country's largest party has the power to have such a path?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1099	I think it is nice that the representative from the Progress Party puts the search light on state ownership and on how to develop it further. And I also think it is positive with the signals that have generally come from the Progress Party on business as such, where there may be a need for the state to be involved when looking at further developments outside the country's borders. I put the spotlight on what is uncertain about this Government, the fact that the focus has shifted from the one who is going to implement and exercise state ownership, to turning more and more to the Stortinget. That is why it is very important that every single group – and I must speak for the Workers' Party – set out some guidelines, but do not go into the pitfall of starting to organise the individual businesses. It's actually the one who's going to exercise state ownership, and in that context, the Workers' Party is now putting it up to, very correctly: the guidelines are put here, but the exercise is done by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1106	I felt at the last answer that the representative Knudsen was probably not fully involved in the matter. The question was, what are the guidelines for the Workers' Party? I agree with all the criticisms of the Government, because the Government has thus signed out of this, thrust its head into the sand and hope to stay there, or believed that by swearing to the status quo it can retain something. I agree with the representative Knudsen that it is critical – completely out of the question. But then the question is, what does the Norwegian Workers' Party mean? And now I'm focusing on in the Norwegian Labour Party, not on a matter that's under consideration in the Committee, but how do you read the guidelines based on the opinion of the Central Government of the Workers' Party? Or to be concrete, what is the reason why you have to wait for yourself before deciding whether to sell the shares in the credit fund? And by waiting for yourself, I mean, the state is in charge of the Norwegian Bank, and you have a simple majority. There's nothing to wait for it, you can handle it, you have full control. That's my question directly. I think I have a very direct question. The representative spoke a lot about predictability and competitive advantages for Norwegian business. I have tried several times to get answers to the following questions: Is the Workers' Party now a member of the shipping tax system we have, or are they not? And by system, I do not mean proposals for changes to the rules on intragroup transfers – just for the sake of order. It was a proposal that was taken up with a completely different starting point than the shipping companies; it was actually the oil companies that were the starting point for that proposal to be taken up by the Ministry of Finance, it is confirmed. I believe the shipping tax system, which means that shipping companies are not taxed for profits, but only on withdrawals on the owner's hand. Does the representative Mr Knudsen, on behalf of the Norwegian Labour Party, agree that this system can now be maintained? The reason I ask this question is that several representatives of the settlement partners have said that this agreement means that the system is now accepted, also by the Workers' Party. It would be a pleasure some years later, but so far we haven't got any clear answers.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1117	The Labour Party is in favour of a heavy Norwegian bank and, in connection with it, one also wanted that system to be in place before going on, therefore the decision to wait with any sale of the Credit Bank. In the case of the Fee for Fee, the adjustments and amendments made to the agreement are similar to those made by the Central Government itself last year, so that it is the government parties that have made the changes that have now been made. In other words, the Workers' Party has not made any other proposals for changes to the system established.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1124	The Labour Party has traditionally been at the forefront of promoting school reforms and extending the rights of an increasing number of age groups and of equal rights for the population as a whole. What will be the big challenge in the next few years is to make public schools good enough – modern and diverse – to be able to recruit the best teachers, to be able to open it up and get larger parts of society and business into school, and to be able to afford to go out into society and business and get a share in what's there. The challenge will simply be to do what the representative Grete Knudsen said, to ensure a broad majority that gives clear enough signals now that young people choose the teaching profession – because it is the most important profession we have. I then need to make a question to the representative Grete Knudsen, whom I heard in the New Year's Eve Eighteen last night, she debated with Jan Petersen. Both of them were reasonably clear in their conclusions that there was a willingness to compensate for a wage settlement — a necessary and correct pay settlement at school — if it were to be negotiated and that proposals were presented in the revised version. Yes yet both of them said that we tend to do that. That's probably not exactly right, but we're going to hope that it turns around. The question for Grete Knudsen is: if the Workers' Party is completely unambiguous in terms of the necessary promises that may come, the Workers' Party is prepared to follow up financially, for example: a necessary pay raise for teachers does not end up in even worse school buildings and even worse books? It is the balancing items that exist if the Storting does not compensate for such costs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1135	In the context of the teacher recruitment message, there are many conditions we will have to go into and improve in school. In addition to the fact that we've been through reforms in the last ten years about in most areas, we're going to have to, I think, look at maybe the most important thing. It is helping both students and teachers directly in the learning situation by providing more teachers – precisely because the public school needs to be of high quality. We will also have to go further on the continuing education front, which has been mentioned by several. So the question of pay. Kristin Halvorsen has advocated that SV should ally with the Right in the case of the pay question, and has also suggested relatively large sums, which are concrete at the Right, long before the wage settlement. There is one way to proceed that the Workers' Party cannot agree with. We have another large group in the public sector, namely the nurses, who also have a lot to do with them. Therefore, the Labour Party cannot – and will not – enter and promise concrete increases in wages in advance. But of course, because we see that those who work in the public sector care professions need improvements, we will follow up when the negotiations are real.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1142	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1146	There is talk from many quarters about the need to improve the local economy. The municipal economy is used as a composite concept for the economic situation of 435 municipalities and 19 counties, while it should be perfectly clear to all who read the reports of the Technical Calculations Committee for Municipal and Municipal Economics that it really makes little sense. The differences between municipalities are very large when we look at income per person. the population. This is of course well known, and the explanation from the followers of these large differences is usually that the municipalities have different expenditure needs, because some municipalities according to natural circumstances are more expensive to operate than others. This may seem a plausible explanation – to a view of free revenues corrected for the estimated expenditure needs, and gets the exact same picture, somewhat moderated. In other words, municipalities with high incomes also have high free incomes after taking into account estimated expenditure. Looking at the period 1985-2000, the municipalities of Eastfold and Westfold have always had the lowest incomes, while the municipalities of North Norway, Sogn and Fjordane and Nord-Trøndelag have had the highest incomes, and the distance has increased significantly over these 15 years. While income in the municipalities of Eastfold and Westfold has increased from about 90 to 93 pst. of the national average over these 15 years, the income of the municipalities of Finnmark has increased from 133 to 142 pst. This has happened despite the fact that during this period there have been two reforms in the income system, the last of which, in 1997, was aimed at balancing some of these unreasonable differences and providing us with a simpler and fairer income system. So there's actually no equalization. On the contrary, we have a more complex system and less justice. The municipalities of Finnmark, which initially had the largest income, have thus received the largest increase. These big differences, which are not due to the fact that some municipalities are more good at obtaining tax revenue than others, rather on the contrary, make it quite pointless to talk about the local economy in general. The implementation of the suspension of the Rattsø Committee would offset some of these differences, but when the bulk of the population does not have the courage to implement this completely necessary reform, but makes arrangements where the municipalities that have been given too little for many years now have to subsidise the municipalities that have been given too much for many years, the result is considered totally unreasonable. When the distance between the poorest and richest municipality is in the order of 16 000 to 133 000 DKK in income per person. per capita years, there must necessarily be major differences in the offer that can be made to municipalities to their inhabitants. The Progress Party wants to ensure an equivalent offer in the core areas of school, health and care in all municipalities, and it is clearly only possible by the State taking direct financial responsibility for these most important public tasks. Only in this way can we get an equivalent offer to all the inhabitants of the country and avoid these dramatic outcomes that we now see, for example. in the municipality of Arendal, where five schools, a nursing home and kindergartens must be closed. But Arendal is not the only municipality where we'll see dramatic results for next year. A wide range of minimum income municipalities will have to make large cuts. It is obvious that there is neither willingness nor room for large general increases in transfers to municipalities. This means that when the bulk of the population wants to maintain such a strong regional policy commitment, it has to go beyond municipalities that are not in what is defined as districts. And that's exactly what's going on, and it's gone so far that the municipalities that are the lowest priority of the bulk of the population are now largely in economic crisis. It's really amazing that these municipalities haven't reacted much, but now probably the reactions have to come, simply because the unfairness has now become so great and the expectations of greater justice then until those degrees have been put to shame. Then it must be district policy that becomes the target, and it is well deserved.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1161	The government has prioritised health and the elderly, families with children and international assistance at the top of the first year of the next century. We continue to focus on a comprehensive rural policy, and in the budgetary negotiations we have also protected the instruments in the Nord-Troms and Finnmark Action Zone. This representative is pleased with this, as the regions have to bear high costs both in the public and private sectors, due to the lack of competition on a number of services and large distance disadvantages. The need for the action zone in the northern part of Norway is at least as high now as when the action zone was introduced in the time of the Syse Government. This representative is pleased that the relative strength of the Action Zone has been maintained, and sees it as very important that this work continues. Research and development in coastal industries is high on the agenda of the State budget, and is important for many communities throughout Norway. And this will have an increasing impact on the nation's economy when oil revenues fall once into the new century. It is a national task of dimensions to develop the biological industry in a sustainable direction, to distribute resources so as to create values in the community for the actors, and that the actors in this industry take responsibility for the environmental responsibility and responsibility of the entire coastal and aquaculture industry to create more sustainable development. A new marine research ship is important in order to improve stock management, so that we can take out more and anticipate the fluctuations in stocks in the Norwegian Sea and the Barents Sea. The marine environment is our great asset for business, it's a research and education challenge, and a huge cradle for raw materials that's given us from nature's seas. Then I'll go to another growth medium. In the state budget for the year 2000 and in the budget agreement with the Workers' Party, children's rights are introduced up to the age of 18, and this is what I consider a very important reform. Although the reform is not launched before 1 May, it will be implemented in the next year, and will be part of the Norwegian government budget after that time. And it will be up to the forthcoming budgetary negotiations to have the rates adjusted. In order to get through something, you have to take and give, and for us, the principle of this expansion of child welfare was important. Many will be able to distribute benefits, but the queue of participants will be a little shorter when it comes to holding up the state's revenues for common resources and distribution. In this budget agreement, we have brought the Workers' Party to an important grip, and they have got us into some grip that they seem to be important, without us having to reduce the income of the common good. The overall increase in taxes and taxes is 0.7 p.m., and given the increase in the overall level of well-being in Norway, this is not spectacular or dramatic, as many representatives are trying to produce it. There is a great need for money for health, school, transport and education. There must be a logical flaw in the aggressive demands of the Party for common good, and the high volume of the Party's representatives make contributions to these terrible taxes and charges. The charging scheme, which we will adopt after all the sun brands tomorrow, is essentially environmental and energy taxes, in line with the principles of the Green Taxes Stortinget’s Green Tax Report on Spring 1998. The fact that we have now achieved in the budget an impact on our principle of electricity taxation and distribution through return to low income groups is important. This contributes to better energy savings and will help reduce emissions of environmentally hazardous substances. At the same time, low-paid people will receive lower taxes and higher disposable income if they save energy as well. It is difficult to understand the individual’s commitment to the weak increase proposed in the electricity charge, also given that electricity prices to Norwegian households are among the lowest in Europe. Energy consumption is the twin brother of pollution, and it is important to address efforts to mitigate and reduce energy consumption also in the energy nation of Norway. I have to say that, in my view, it might be too small to take long enough steps to evolve in the right direction towards more sustainable energy systems. But anyway, this is a step in the right direction, and that's why it's very important.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1182	The regulatory period has now come to an end. However, the President proposes that the meeting continue until speaker No. 32 is done. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1187	Yesterday we received a clear confirmation that the municipalities are struggling with a large financial deficit. According to Statistics Central City, municipalities and county municipalities had a deficit of approximately NOK 6.7 billion in 1998. We have to go all the way back to 1988 to find corresponding bad numbers. Unfortunately, this is not surprising, but it is very worrying. Many municipalities are in a difficult economic situation, and that means less provision of services to their inhabitants, and that means higher own payments. This is not satisfactory, and therefore we in the Workers' Party are pleased that agreement has been reached between the Workers' Party and the Centre's parties to give the municipalities approximately. One billion more to the next year. The majority of this comes as a free resource, which is also imperative in order for municipalities to have the opportunity to pay their own costs to the many efforts we have undertaken, such as the elderly reform, health plans or kindergarten development. And not least, it has been important for us to get some more money for the school sector, where we know that there is a screaming need. These have been important demands of the Workers' Party, also in order to ensure the distribution policy, because we know who is losing if the municipality's economy becomes too tight. That's why it's not the way to cut the transfers, like this. The party of progress proposes. And it was quite recent from this pulpit to hear the representative Monsen's concern for the local economy and the importance of equivalent services. In fact, if the Progress Party had been given a decision, it would have been 4 billion dollars less for the municipal sector next year. There had been fewer welfare services, and there had been more expensive welfare services. There had also been less money for the hospital sector, which I have also heard from several representatives of the Progress Party have been up here today and cared for. We have to go the opposite way. I must also say that when the representative Monsen says that the bulk of the population is not willing to give more money, the representative must have followed very poorly in his work on this financial position. It is and more money will be allocated, and we must also be willing to spend more money for years to come. Because although it is absolutely necessary to convert into the public sector, we can never change or streamline the fact that there will be a need to spend a lot of money in the municipal sector even in the years that come after next year. We in the Workers' Party also believe that there is a need to have an overall review of the income system to see if it is accurate enough. We therefore ask the Government to come back with a review of the municipal economic proposition next spring. I have also realized that the Government will do this. A lot indicates that we have not gotten the distribution we wanted. Here it is necessary that the Government, among others. look at whether the municipalities that were going to win after the Rattsø conversion have actually become. Some signals indicate that this is not the case. The distribution policy is also concerned with the distribution between municipalities. We see again that unemployment is increasing. Getting people work is also about fair distribution. By the end of November, 55 800 people were registered completely unemployed. This is an increase of 6 pst. from November of last year. We warned that the permits and the leave were going to increase. Not least in the shipbuilding industry, we see what has happened in a very short time. In addition to the fact that, of course, losing a job is a major problem for each individual, many communities are also affected by the situation we are now facing, both directly and indirectly. The government's efforts in this area have not been good enough, for it is not useful to take a wait and see-holding and bet on that it is going well. Past experience shows that if that snowball starts rolling, yes, we get problems. Therefore, it is also relevant in this area to be guided by var. That is why the Workers' Party has fought for a more active industrial and employment policy that can help mitigate the decline in investment and offer active measures to those who have resigned and have left off. We are pleased that the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Governments' parties will result in increased investment in labour market policy, which can and will ensure more jobs in vulnerable industries next year. Nevertheless, we may not get away from the fact that the number of people who are unemployed and on leave will unfortunately increase next year. This is why it is important to maintain and develop skills in, for example: the shipbuilding and offshore industries and to increase the number of areas for action, which is part of the package for which there is now a majority. In addition to having a special package aimed at these industries, it is also important that we manage to maintain a high level of action for others who are out of work. This applies, inter alia, to: a part of the long-term unemployed. In this context, it is also important that we do something to make labour market measures more targeted than what we see some examples of today. We must never forget that there are almost 60,000 people who don't have a job to do. And it's a big challenge for us to give everyone who wants to, a job to go to. In addition to having a job, it is to have a place to live a naturality and a necessity. It should be a matter of course, but it isn't. Several thousand people in Norway have no place to live, and many live expensive and poor. Many young and disadvantaged people have serious problems getting into the housing market. This problem, of course, increases as prices rise sharply. This is especially true in our big cities. That's why we have to do what we can to help build more reasonable and cheap rentals for young and disadvantaged people. We are pleased that in the budget agreement we have moved on a step forward, so that more dwellings will be built next year. This is a completely necessary escalation, but it cannot stop this. Here both the municipalities and the state have a responsibility, and together with the housing law we have to make a common promise to get much more construction going, and that must happen quickly. The Labour Party also considers it important that the State go through the housing stock owned by the State itself, with the aim of converting some of this into reasonable housing for young people. And let me take a concrete example, which is also mentioned in the setting, namely the old state hospital that is now to be converted into housing. There's reason to think that the prices per. The apartment there is getting very high, and therefore the Workers' Party believes that the State should be able to offer one of the plots to the housing estates and reserve it for rentals for young people. We believe it is important to do something when the state has the opportunity to do something. Unfortunately, it has not been possible to have a majority in favour of such a proposal in the financial situation, but I hope that it can change in connection with the treatment of the trade committee budget. I have also been pleased to report that the Swedish Council of State has said that she is taking along the proposal, and I hope that it will produce results. Because if you really think that a person wants to offer young people reasonable housing, you also have to show it in practice. And here, from the state side, we have a unique opportunity to prevent the Reich Hospital project from becoming the Holmenkol lock on the surface. This is an excellent opportunity to get some youth rentals relatively quickly in addition to ordinary construction. We must prevent housing in the big cities from becoming a good just reserved adult people with good finances. This is largely a question of policy on distribution. In the Workers' Party, we are pleased that leading representatives of the Centre Parties have, of course, also today stated that it is through cooperation with us that it is possible to achieve the fairest possible distribution. We hope that it will also produce concrete results in even more cases.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1220	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1223	The philosopher Viktor Frankl said that says one to a human being how, one must also say why. I want to rewrite this to apply to the municipalities. Tell a municipality in detail how they should behave, how they should act and whether or not they should be free to act, they must also have a good reason for doing so. The Christian People's Party supports the development of a simpler Norway, with less detailed management of the municipalities and greater freedom. We have also supported the Government's earlier proposal to remove eartags and to grant municipalities a slightly freer right to tax. We have also announced that, following the health reforms, which are now in full swing, we will try to create larger armsstrokes for municipal freedom – by removing earmarks and detailed management. We want to make the municipalities responsible, and we think this will make the working day for local politicians and communities more interesting, and not least they need to get a freer economy, it is now under control, and also free settings created by central models. We also believe that this prevents efficiency and good use of resources. So then my question to the Labour Party is: is this detailed management, which the Labour Party seems to be far on the way to misleading further, worth the price? Will the Labour Party govern the municipalities in detail, or can the municipalities expect to be met with confidence and freedom under local democratic responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1232	The answer to the question is yes. The Labour Party wants the municipalities to have greater freedom of action. These included: Therefore, one of our demands in these budget negotiations was that municipalities should be given more free resources. The government had proposed a scheme that was almost world record — at least Norway’s record — in terms of the number and size of designated schemes. Of course, some of the explanations of this are reforms that we have adopted in this Chamber, which concern important actions for people, including: in health and for the elderly, and where we have decided that we should use earmarked schemes, and of course we must continue to do so as it has been adopted. But if the municipalities are to be able to make use of this, so that the population actually gets an offer, then the municipalities must at least have some free money to pay for the excess we require them to pay. That is why one of our demands was more free money, and we are glad that the Government has agreed that the majority of the amount of NOK 1 billion more that the municipalities get, is just going to be free money. We in the Workers' Party believe that the detailed management of the municipalities has gone too far. We've also said clearly that we need to have an open and prejudiced review of this. Among other things, we have questioned whether the use of earmarked funds is too extensive in some areas, and whether we use it for too long. We have questioned whether the bureaucracy that we have built up through the use of earmarked schemes requires municipalities to spend a lot of money and a lot of people to sit and report to the state about what each thousand bill is used for is the proper use of people. We don't think that's a proper use of people. Here's a lot we can do. It is also true, as the representative Gedrem knows for sure, that the municipal sector has some 6,000 laws and regulations to deal with. I think there is a lot here that both should and can be made easier, but I do not think it is right for the representative to accuse the Workers' Party that we should not want the municipalities to have more freedom of action. We're the ones who've gone to the chest to try to give it to them.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1245	The municipal economy is an essential part of the state budget, and the municipal economy was also the Workers' Party's representative inside its contribution here. The size covered a revision of the income system for municipalities in 1996 with a view to increasing the objectivity of transfers. This was investigated. But the transitional arrangements have, in reality, torpedoed all proven objectivity. The right has previously been downgraded when we have called for methods for the winding-up of transitional arrangements that unpresist bear the name loss compensation. This year we have been moved by the majority, as the representative clearly expressed. It might have been tempting to ask why it went so many years before the Workers' Party realized that the transitional arrangements, for which the party stood as a guide through the ministry, had to be followed up. And is it really that the Workers' Party understands that those who pay the party through the loss compensation lack explanation as to why? Does the Workers' Party really want to give objective and perhaps improved criteria so much space that they are not overshadowed by accumulated discretionary positions, which the Municipal Council has previously suggested could be the result, i.e. an extension of discretion? In the right-hand budget, the freezing of loss compensation and regional subsidies is proposed precisely to meet this requirement of the so-called theoretical Rattsø win. There is also a justification that the growth has resulted in loss compensation, in regional grants and earmarked grants, and not in community grants, which were desirable.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1258	One of the most significant things about Municipality-Norway is that our municipalities are so different, and the income system we have, or will have in the future, has to take that into account, of course. In it lies, among other things, that we also have some long-distance district municipalities, but of course there are also many other things that need to be taken into account. We believe in the Workers' Party that very much of what has been done in terms of changes in the income system is right, but we have received a lot of messages that it probably hasn't become exactly what it was supposed to be. There are also, after a while, quite a number of studies to confirm that assumption. That is why we have said that we believe that there is now a need for an overall review of the income system, among other things. because we have carried out various small and large operations on top of each other, without having seen the clear impact for each municipality. That's why we ask, as I said in my main post, that the government come back with that review of the municipal economics proposition for spring, so that we get the opportunity to get a round on it and get a thorough review. In this picture, of course, there is also a review of the proposals of the famous Rattsø Committee. Is it so that those who were going to win after the Rattsø conversions have become it, or is it so that there hasn't actually been so many big changes when you add up all of them? There are some of the things we need to have an open and prejudiced debate about when we get that review to spring.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1269	The most positive thing about the budgetary agreement reached in the autumn is that there is hope that the policy in Norway will be turned in a different direction in important areas, such as: education, distribution and environmental policy. If we see in SV that the outcome of the agreement is quite modest, in some areas it is much better than it would have been with a settlement with the Right and the Advance Party. But it's a shame. I could need to ask the representative Brustad a little about the ambitions ahead. What kind of ambitions in relation to these important areas does the Labour Party have in the future in the next budgets, that is, what is the weight in the direction we are going to go? Looking at an important size in our national budget, which is the proportion of the total economy going to the public sector, it has fallen substantially in recent years. In 1992, it was about 52 p.m., and this year, the government expects it to be about 46,5 p.m. The average in the EU is about 47.6 p.m. These are numbers taken from the national budget. It says a little bit about the distribution between the public and private sectors, which is one of the important distribution mechanisms we have in society, and which, among other things, are: says quite a lot about whether we're able to have good enough schools to put pressure on privatisation there that doesn't increase, that we can have a good enough health service to put pressure on privatisation there that doesn't increase, and that all these common things don't get confused. Some of these things also say, of course, something about distribution policy, tax policy, and perhaps the most important thing it could say about, is whether we are able to do something in relation to the great commitment to knowledge and competence development that is necessary. Does the Workers' Party have an ambition to increase the share of the public sector in the total economy in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1279	The Labour Party has in no way had any impact on everything in this budgetary agreement, but we have had a positive impact on many things that have progressed in the right direction, not least on the issue of distribution policy. Of course, we have the ambition to get even further on that road, both in the distribution between those who have the most here in society, and those who have the least, and within what is about kids, school, health, older people and municipalities, to mention something. We are extremely concerned to achieve even more of a policy that tastes of Community solutions, where we are able to take care of everyone in society. That means, of course, that those who have the most, should also do the most. If we're going to do it in the future, I think we also need to be willing to improve the public sector where the public sector is not good enough. And a review of this is necessary in some areas, so that one avoids more privatisation, as is now the case in part of the country's municipalities. I also want to add that if we can't follow up, among other things. with transfers to municipalities, it could also be used in some municipalities as an argument for more privatisation. It does not want the Workers' Party. That is why, in the future too – we are, of course, pleased that we have taken a step in that direction through this budgetary agreement – we will be willing to spend more money on Community solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1291	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1294	This morning we heard that the representative Stoltenberg is without concern about how the next generation is going to feed. He pointed out that the transition from industrial communities to knowledge societies will provide new jobs that we know little about today. But we also know that if we do not believe that tomorrow's society will be completely self-sufficient in food and industrial products of all kinds, the world will continue to depend on maritime transport for exports and imports and trade. Norway has always been a maritime nation, and we have to look after ourselves so that we can be there in the future as well. It was with this recognition that the centre parties together with the Right and the Advance Party adopted a competitive framework for Norwegian shipping in 1996 based on an investigation showing the industry’s high potential for growth and value creation, provided that the framework conditions were correct. The frameworks were correct and the results were not missing: employment and value creation increased. The changes in the framework conditions for which the Government, with the assistance of the Workers' Party since its implementation, have reversed a positive trend. There is a lack of financial governance when the Government cannot find the budgetary balance without raising taxes and taxes. In the maritime sector too, we have small and medium-sized enterprises, newly established enterprises with large debts. And it's these shipping companies that are now starting to flag out, they've lost faith in a future under the Norwegian flag. The Workers' Party has been extremely concerned that the companies that they believe have paid too little tax. They do not look at the value creation and tax that society derives from shipping. According to the Minister of Industry's investigation a few days ago, the shipping industry accounts for DKK 50 billion of Norwegian export value, currency earnings to Norway. Purchases of goods and services from shipping companies to Norway amount to approx. 10 billion kroner. The shipping companies themselves are paying 500 million. NOK 1 000 in tax, and NOK 2 000 in Norwegian seafarers plus NOK 5000 in shipowners’ activities on land last year gave a tax surplus to Norway of NOK 6 billion. 16.5 billion kroner ploughed into Norwegian business actually equals some county budget. In addition, Norwegian shipyards have received contracts in the current year for NOK 5 billion – money that will be paid in 2000. But this value generation is not enough for the Workers' Party and the Government. Now the shipping tax is tightened, and the tonnage tax is raised to a level that is now going to be four times higher than the competing shipping company in the rest of the world. Nevertheless, the representative of Stoltenberg refused to answer the question from Foss whether the Workers' Party accepts the shipping tax as it is now, and so did the representative Grete Knudsen. We have noticed that today's tax tightening comes on proposals from the government parties. I also think that the industry's people will notice. But with the signs given here today, the future is still unpredictable, and such a capital-intensive and competitive and cyclical industry as this, cannot live with framework conditions that change all the time. The reason given by the working party for not accepting the shipping tax was that the shipping companies could not get both in the cargo and in the mast. But we must not care so that we seize the mast and thus miss the value in the load. That is the development that we are now afraid of. We must also have maritime industries in Norway in the future. We've been busy recruiting and training seafarers. The shipowners have fulfilled their share, the seafarers have fulfilled their share, but this government has excluded the largest training group of ships. The bending loads, which are educational institutions, are no longer being helped to do so. If we want highly qualified education on the maritime side too, we have to be willing to bet on it as well. It doesn't come of itself. In the spring, the shipping companies put several million extras on the table to outsource the apprentices, and they did it. Now the government has to follow up with its own.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1317	One step forward is better than two back. The budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Government is about this. We were facing the elections if we were to negotiate a compromise that led the policy one step in the right direction, or if we were to leave to the Right and the Progress Party to take Norway at least two steps back. For families with children, the budget agreement is good. It was simply absolutely necessary, especially with regard to the situation of kindergartens. Kindergarten expansion has stopped during the central government. The government's objectives and plans for full child-care coverage by the year 2000 are not achievable. Several tens of thousands of parents are in despair today. They're desperate because they don't get kindergarten. For them, freedom of choice does not feel like, among other things, The Christian People's Party is so busy, being real. The cash support could give parents freedom of choice, and parents could choose between kindergarten, day care or being at home. But unfortunately, the vast majority of parents do not have this choice today. The construction of 2000 new kindergartens provided by the budget agreement is therefore good. These 2,000 new places are added to the Government's proposals. So over the next year, we're going to get closer to the goal of full coverage, but we're not going to be completely on target. Therefore, the focus on kindergarten development must continue. The Kindergarten Communication, which will be presented in a few weeks' time, will show how the Government will address the challenges facing municipal and private kindergartens. To illustrate what is the picture in the counties, I want to take an example from my own home state, More and Romsdal. The county could tell that there are now 1,000 children in line, and there is only one new kindergarten. Only nine out of 38 municipalities have their own kindergarten plans. It tells me that unfortunately there are many municipalities that do not take their responsibilities seriously in this area. However, the possibility of kindergarten is much more than the freedom of choice of parents. In the view of the Labour Party, it is also about providing good care to children, and it is about the possibility for parents to participate in the work. For many women, children's kindergarten is a prerequisite for getting out of work, and we know that society needs these girls' labour. In this perspective, too, increased use of kindergartens is important. However, the provision of nursery facilities is of little importance if those who receive the offer cannot afford to use it. And that's what's happening here in the country now. The parental payment for a kindergarten is another area where the development of the centre administration has not been good. We have seen that the parental payment from August last year to August this year has increased by 6.5 pst. This is the average for the whole country. Some municipalities have increased by more, while others have increased by less. The largest increase is for those who use private kindergartens. We saw that the government was not willing to do anything to dampen this growth in its draft budget – on the contrary. Parents with children of kindergarten age would get even worse financially by removing the care allowance and cutting child welfare. The Labour Party has for a long time been concerned about the development of nursery prices. An important requirement for us during the budget negotiations was therefore that operating aid for kindergartens should be increased. We know that the result was 100 million. SEK for increased operating grants. Of course, the important thing now is how this money is spent. The working party has not received any benefit for everything, and the amount of the kindergartens could of course be much larger. But at least it's a step in the right direction, and it's a different course than the one we've seen in the last two years. What we have to do in the course of the committee's budgetary procedure is to use these funds in the most targeted way possible. The funds must not be lubricated thinly, but must be used to save the operation in the kindergartens that currently labor the most. I am very happy that the care allowance has been taken back. This was absolutely necessary when child welfare was cut for parents with children up to 16 years of age. The extension of child benefit to 18 years of age, together with greater help for school books, is an important measure for parents with children in secondary school. The budget as it now stands is a step in the right direction with regard to child and family policy. For the Workers' Party, the question has been what would be the alternative. We've seen what the situation has been like in the last two years. Neither the Right Party nor the Advance Party proposes a single new kindergarten space in addition to the Government's proposal. On the contrary, many fewer kindergartens would probably be built with their policies. The advance party cut of 4 billion kroner to the municipalities would be dramatic if it had come through. It is quite clear that new kindergartens would have been completely impossible to finance with the arrangement of the Progress Party. Nor does the Progress Party propose in its alternative budget funds for increased operating grants for kindergartens. The price of a kindergarten with the policy of the Progress Party would continue to increase. The result would be fewer and more expensive kindergartens and less freedom of choice for parents. In the field of equality, too, a policy with the influence of the Progress Party would lead very wrong places – very wrong places. Equality shall be left to the individual. The Equality Ombudsman and the Equality Competence Centre shall in fact be closed. With regard to the tax proposals in the budget agreement, they are primarily justified by the desire for better social distribution. However, the tax burden on low-paid people also has an equal opportunities perspective, for a large majority of those who want to benefit from the tax system are women, women working in hard professions in terms of physical stress and working hours, women who are very often unskilled, and women working with children and the elderly. All of these do a very important job in our society. I am therefore both happy and proud that these groups are getting something left. The same applies to the sickness pay scheme. That those who earn least, should not be fully entitled to sick pay, is one of the most unsocial suggestions I have seen. The fact that the Workers' Party has managed to fix this is important, not because it's about so much money, but because it's about social justice and distribution. The result of the negotiations on taxes is that we take from those who have a lot, and we give to those who have a little. It is in line with good social-democratic policies. In this area, too, the option would be the opposite if the Right and Advance Party were to be determined. And as I started with: one step forward is better than two back – and that's what the Workers' Party has actually made clear in this budgetary agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1345	Then the debate goes a step further. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1348	With regard to the concerns of the representative Orheim about the alternative budget of the Progress Party, I would recommend the representative to hold the evening and listen to my intervention later this evening. But what I would like to challenge the representative, Orheim, is that when we look back, the Labour Party has built up, over the 1990s, child and youth protection that includes a wide range of prevention measures and a wide range of measures to strengthen child and youth growth conditions. Regardless of this, we continue to record an increase in the number of reported cases and cases that are being treated in the field of child protection. Regardless of this, negative developments in childhood and youth crime and growing concern in primary and secondary schools continue. After the Workers' Party presented its budget last year, this issue arose too fully. Then the Workers' Party went very high on the track and suddenly magicd forward an anti-violence package for 50 million. kr. When I look at the setting that is available today, I see that the agreement deals with the protection of children and young people in five sentences. My question to the Labour Party and the representative Orheim is: Does the Workers' Party and the representative believe that this issue of childhood and juvenile delinquency and unrest in primary and secondary schools no longer exist now, since the anti-violence package has not been given a single place in the budget for the year 2000?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1359	The representative Sandberg addresses a very important area. What we've seen in the media lately, there's reason to react to. I can assure the representative Sandberg that we from the Labour Party will follow up on these matters. It's clear that the very weakest thing in our society must have a real follow-up. I expect those responsible, namely the Government and the Council of State, to take these things up and follow them up. But I feel that the representative blames a lot of what's happening in today's society, on the Labour Party and the policy we've been facing in recent years. If the policies of the Progress Party had been implemented, I don't think we would have seen less violence and less crime in our society. I'm going to ask the representative to go back to his own alternative and really evaluate some of the formulations you're actually using, because it's quite amazing to say that the social confusion we're seeing is due to the policy that's been leading here to countries in recent years. I think there's a lot of reasons for that, but hanging out one party for what's happening in this area, I think I'm exaggerating.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1366	The representative Orheim was about equality in his article. Then it must be nice that the Government now proposes to introduce the independent right of contemplation for birth money for fathers next year, which the Center Party has fought for too long. Until now, this has only been related to the mother's dishes. Thus, families would often go down in income when the danger took out leave. Still, the average income of fathers is higher, unfortunately. But it also has to do with the fact that women have worked more part-time or our homes with other children. That's why it's so important that all fathers get self-contained dishes in public health based on their own income. It must be right that even father can take out this leave and thus get the opportunity to become fully acquainted with the newcomer in the family. Until now, only 2/3 of the fathers have actually benefited from the four weeks they were entitled to paper commission. Very few took out more. Otherwise, there is no reason why Father should not be able to take his responsibility and get his food in this field – that is, equality at his best! Actually, it's strange that the Working Party didn't do anything about this in its reign. The Labour Party now says here in the budget setting for equality: «These members consider that they must continue to work for a more equal and correct distribution of opportunities and obligations for both sexes.» This seems mildly rather diffuse. What is the concrete fact of the working party here?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1392	That's right, the Workers' Party actually didn't get everything at the time we were in government. Just the area that the representative of Aarrestad took up, the Workers' Party did not do anything, but we of course support that fathers should have their own earnings rights. But now, too, the proposal put forward by the Government does not mean full rights. It is important that fathers participate in what is happening at home. The Labour Party introduced its own federal quota, which I think is one of the most important equality policy measures we have had in the last decade. It means that Father has seen the value of taking care of his children and participating in the housework in a completely different way from what we have seen before. These reforms for the benefit of families with children are the Workers' Party which has taken the lead and not the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1401	I understand in many ways that the head of the Women's Movement of the Workers' Party cannot stand out with the same cheer over the budget line that the Workers' Party has agreed to, as many other representatives of the Workers' Party have done. There will be a little bit more detail about the ‘Step forward is better than two backwards’ as the reason for the approach that lies here, which is, of course, the budget of the Labour Party; they have nothing else to deal with. It's getting a little bit smaller than when you hear the cheer from Berit Brørby: we've got to say the whole Workers' Party's program from the previous national meeting, what are we going to do now? We get to call an extraordinary national meeting and make a new one, according to Ranveig Frøiland. That was the mood when you had gotten 100 million. kr in increased subsidies to bring down the nursery price, after it was one of the important themes of the election campaign on the part of the Workers' Party. One hundred million. kr – 50 kr each month. That was the important point that all families with children in kindergarten had thought that the Workers' Party really prioritised. Last year, there was NOK 0 in their alternative budget line, rather than the year before, there was something more to get prices down. In fact, we have two and a half times as much in the Right Alternative Budget in subsidising the children's families who pay the most, namely those who are in the private kindergartens – two and a half times more than the Workers' Party. We never ran around and yelled so awfully much of it. But isn't this a bit in the sense that the Workers' Party itself has a completely different policy than the one they deliver? In the case of the entire scheme of cash support, the Workers' Party's alternative has been an additional year of maternity leave. For the time being, we have not seen a proposal here in Stortinget in a single hour, a day or a month, but in every single debate for two years before the previous roll-call elections that I met representatives of the Women's Movement of the Labour Party, they had an entire year as their alternative. They don't deliver any of the promises to the families of children.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1406	I think the representatives from the Right this evening seem a little hurt. This was very clearly expressed when we heard the representative of Greece’s posts earlier this evening. The budget agreement between the Workers' Party and the Government may have made a small wound between the cash support friends, which may prove difficult to patch up again after these two years. I notice that the right now can beat itself a little bit on the chest and say that their alternative budget is so much better, and they can point to x the number of millions in bets against the kindergartens. The truth has been that the Right and the four other parties have not followed up what they themselves said in the cash support agreement. They have formulated the objective of ‘equal treatment between municipal and private kindergartens’. So far, nothing has happened. The political memory can also be quite short for more people here in the hall. I just want to remind the representative Solberg of the interest rate rise we experienced a few years ago, and that there were no budgetary constraints that were part of the cause. And who was hit? Well, it was the families of young children who had to deal with high mortgages. The budgetary constraints at the time were too weak, the families of young children had to pay, and we know who was on the wheel of economic policy at the time. I have to ask back: what kind of handshake has the Right given to the families of young children other than the cash support these two years? Nothing. What about the eye-catching low kindergarten bet? What about the private kindergartens, which we've seen on the right hand side have turned into a spokesman for the right hand side over and over again? Yes, it does not leave the Right elegant to talk about today. With regard to the credibility of the Labour Party in child and family policy, I will again refer to the reforms we have put in place. We know what the right did when they put in the government position. There weren't many new days for the children's families then.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1414	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1417	I am pleased that kindergarten development is now being widely supported in Stortinget. After the introduction of cash support, it is important for parents and children to have the real choice between this and kindergarten. Then there will simply be a lot of children's playgrounds, even for those under three years of age. Therefore, the expected nursery message is now so important to secure it in the future. Otherwise, local variations may make it less likely to have clear national standards for full child-care coverage. Our country is so diverse when it comes to age, spread construction, type of jobs and population concentration, that too many municipalities will be completely wrong to build on national norms. For some people it won't be able to give you enough space, but for others it would be too many. Another challenge is to ensure greater economic equality between municipal and private kindergartens, where these are part of the overall childcare provision in the municipality, and where both duties and tasks are the same. Not least, we also need the private childcare facilities, which have so far covered a lot of the supply for those under three years of age. Absorptions of this type will also help to ensure that there is no real choice in terms of cash support, for which the Central Party has been so strongly involved. That's why this is so important to watch out for. So a little bit to another important area, that's what has to do with the consumers -- all of us -- their chances of getting clean and safe food without harmful substances of different kinds, or communicable diseases. Until now, the law has protected us from this as far as possible. But in recent years, questions related to infectious agents, co-formulants and micro-organisms of all kinds have become more focussed. The centre part has always meant that consumers are entitled to clean food, free from antibiotics, hormones and other additives. Consumers should have the right to know how food is produced and to have a choice of what they want to buy and eat. Now we have a proposal for handling in Stortinget to allow zinc bacitrisin, an antibiotic, in Norwegian animal feed. There is no doubt that its use in long-term animal feed could lead to the development of resistant bacteria both in humans and animals. This could provide sufficient grounds for invoking the precautionary principle and prohibiting it in Norway. We know that the day we get sick, we probably won't have drugs that work, with the consequences that this will get. That's what this is about. I am amazed that such proposals are being made, and I am surprised that not everyone is equally interested in pure and safe food, unless otherwise for the descendants' sake. Other challenges now in this sector are the Food and Food Directive, which is for the management of food. Genetic engineering used in food production is a very new science that has only existed for a few years. No one yet knows what effect genetics have on the human body or nature. After the initial documentation, it appears that there may be a lot of organic bombs hidden. Some plants have been genetically engineered so that the seeds have their germination potential. In view of this, the Norwegian term ‘suicide seed’ is interpreted in a double and in a literal sense. Genetically modified maize has killed monarch butterflies and other insects in North America. Then it's clear that it doesn't have our research well enough on the sequences here. When the insects didn't survive, what would the sequences become for humans now and in coming generations? Now it's been working to get a preliminary ban on genetically engineered food for 10 years, a so-called moratorium. Such a pause should be used to get more knowledge and information from an independent research environment. And then I'm just going to hope that the Storting also boasts about this. I am making this point because consumer matters and consumer protection are important to all of us. We've discussed this in a lot of ways before, and we'll do it in the future. The mass consumer society has created an enormous freedom of choice that was not found twenty years ago. At the same time, any choice of faults taken by consumers can become a potential cost both directly economically and – not least – to individuals and society. We have to do what we can to avoid this cost.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1443	In the pre-election election in 1997, the election took place. I order the country to have a plural government, or at least a government with more compulsory support from a plurality in Stortinget. It was impossible to have it as a goal after the big shot, as all the bourgeois parties had the aim of getting the Labour Party out of government offices. The reason I called for this was the frustration of individuals, organisations and companies that significant changes were made to their terms and conditions twice a year. It was not good for the business community, but it was also not good for the unemployed and part-time employees. It's not now either. The stability cry has not been set in the last few years. From my point of view, I meet this mainly from the business community. For most, stable framework conditions are more important than the best possible framework conditions at any time. I'll come back to that. But I also meet it with the same woman and husband. They want stability when it comes to tax laws and social security schemes, to name something. It is easier to plan life and future then. But, of course, it's not that most people want to stick to layer conditions they're strongly unbalanced in and like, for example. strongly frames the itself. Therefore, we need to strike a balance between stability and will and ability to change. Of course, part-time workers who were deprived of the right to sickness benefit want this right back. They'll get that now. I'm very happy about that. It will be hopeless if the government party, in cooperation with the right-hand side of this room, would change this again for the next year. Now these women, because there are mostly women, have to know that they can keep this right for years to come. There is no more that is reasonable and fair. Requests for stability will also be subject to cash support. Many families have planned, at least for at least one to two years ahead, to benefit from the cash support, and they have found solutions based on it – perhaps even in spite of the fact that they are against the scheme. By the way, it is nothing new that a minority accepts measures and schemes that a majority have agreed to, and does not benefit from every opportunity to recapitulate their own primary vision. I can refer to the abortion laws and the school start for 6-year-olds as examples of that. The working party is probably just as small for cash support as the Christian People's Party is for having the six-year-olds in school. It may well be that the Workers' Party again makes suggestions to cancel the arrangement with cash support. Both the President and many of the representatives – now there are not so many left in the Chamber, then – have probably discovered that this is still under discussion in the Labour Party. What is absolutely certain is that we will work towards the evaluation of the cash support for changes that ensure more solidarity between parents and children, and changes that ensure that children with disabilities have access to a kindergarten at their best. I have been one of the representatives in this room who have expressed themselves strongly and often against cash support on a principle basis. I even dare to stand by that I am very afraid that it will put the equality work back a year. I can still live well with the compromise. I do that because the compromise contains a lot of important elements that make it more offensive in relation to value creation, which means that some of the kingdoms have to do more to make some of the least of them better. I am studying in flång: unemployed, part-time workers, low pay and students. More could have our names. In addition, it enables municipalities to improve e.g.: scholastic services. I'm sure that we who live in Rogaland County will enjoy 12 million. NOK extra, and that we like to live in the municipality of Klepp, would enjoy $1350 million. kr. In Klepp, this can give room for e.g. allows for a better school and for a hard-pressed nutrition consultant. With that, I'm on business policy again. We need an offensive and targeted industrial policy in this country to secure employment and well-being in the future. The rate of change is increasing. That means that businesses are shut down. Some could have been passed on and/or further developed with a more offensive policy. I'm sure there's a part of the industrial workplace that's been gone lately. In fact, we have 25 000 such jobs less than in the third quarter of this year than we had a year ago. It should worry the government and the nutrition council more than we have the impression that it does. It's claimed that we need 200,000 new businesses over the next 20 years to secure employment and well-being. The Labour Party is probably not very impressed with the Government's efforts to stimulate the development of new businesses, as well as securing existing ones. I and many others here in the hall have gone to a school where we learned to write job applications, and learned little and nothing about establishing their own business. Fortunately, the entrepreneurial idea has once again entered the Norwegian schoolwork. It didn't happen that Jon Lilletun entered the government offices, so one could get the impression of a previous line exchange today. It happened to the Workers' Party. The Labour Party also highlighted this in the context of the management of the Enterprise Communication in the early spring, and suggested that this be one of the main strategies to be pursued in the future. Many remain, but there are many good examples of student enterprises, partnership agreements between working life and school and other motivational and information work. It's enough to see if it leads to more ideas and more business start-ups, but it's reasonable to expect a hit because of this. In the same setting, the Labour Party reiterated that partnerships between public and private research, education and working life can help prevent Norwegian companies from being sold abroad, participate in strategic acquisitions abroad, and stimulate innovation and further development in business. I am pleased at the point in the Government Party/Worker Party agreement where the Government is asked to assess measures to secure head office functions and industrial competence in Norway, possibly through a State/Private Investment Company. I wonder that the resistance to this is so great. I hope that the representative Terje Johansen's statement that one should be able to use state capital which, even when necessary, represents the view of government parties, and that one may have an unethical relationship with this. Indeed, it is the experience of the Labour Party that there is a need for long-term risk capital for strategic investments that are not found in the private sector. There is not, as the right-hand side often gives the impression, enough capital for such purposes. In the past, I have stated that I think the Government is general and the Minister of Industry and the Left is particularly keen to believe that future income can be secured through tax and tax measures and a simplified form fields. The right-hand side seems to think that everything can be solved through tax havens for companies that are well established and that tend to make money. There's a lot of examples that it's not right. I met such a example in the Forsand municipality in Rogaland last Friday, where there has been a start-up of shelling, and a new reception is under construction. The last establishment would not have been possible without support from SND – both with money and advice. It even had to admit a Right-Man who was involved in this. I wish there was a broader understanding that, in addition to stimulating Idea creation through research and inventions, we need to provide help for self-help to idea makers and entrepreneurs. Then it's no more than fair and reasonable that they pay taxes when they take on money. It is alarming that grants for advice, grants, loans and support for the development of ideas, establishment and marketing have been greatly reduced in recent years. We in the Labour Party see it as necessary that this should be reversed in order for good ideas and initiatives not to be lost instead of leading to new businesses and new jobs that we need in the future. We may not be as good and competitive in a small country in all areas. It's important that we bet in areas where we're good, and where we have a commitment to be good. Maritime sector is one example of this, marine sector another.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1471	There are always great expectations of a government budget, largely from everyone, no matter where it may come from. There may be financial appropriations for simple projects or major economic priorities that you want to call policy or policy. But this time, it may be safe to say that the content is almost inconsistency. Anyone who may have to have expectations of the state budget for the year 2000 must be disappointed. Nevertheless, this must be called a historical budget, when the Workers' Party for the first time is flattening and allowing itself to dictate to the degrees of the Government, without having significant influence. The Labour Party has flown high in the last year is a so-called low-wage profile or a distribution profile that will benefit the weakest. Without shyness, they now convey the message that this is a reality in this budget. This is particularly the tax burden for those with lower incomes. More to kindergartens, more to school leisure schemes and school books are other factors the Workers' Party makes in order to clear its conscience towards those who have the least. Then it's interesting to look at this in one of my budget areas, which is now going to get better from the claims of the Labour Party, namely the families of children. The agreement affects the vast majority of families with children. But I would like to draw up specific examples, because the Workers' Party has also tried to present itself as the sole supporter's speaker. What happens now to a lone parent with NOK 165 000 in income and two children? With the famous distribution profile of the Workers' Party, this family will only be deprived of approx. NOK 2 400 in child's care. So already here, the tax base of the Workers' Party is almost halved. Then all of the other increased expenses will be borne by the Labour Party and the Government will all impose in the year 2000, it can be small and large. I assume that the Workers' Party also realizes that the lone carers depend on the car, even though I am tempted to believe the opposite. The traffic damage tax increases by 120 kroner. The road tax is increasing. The cost of diesel and petrol, which I think the families of children are very dependent on, is increasing. They'll get a lot of increased expenses. The families who had planned to purchase a safe family car had to spend in the year 2000 with perhaps NOK 30 000 – NOK 40000 extra. It's small things. The NRK licence is increasing. And what about the current costs? These, of course, seem harder for families with children than for others. Everyone knows that. An average family is likely to have an increase in electricity costs of nearly NOK 1200 in 2000. This breakdown profile in the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Government will exacerbate the economic situation of the families with children. What I forgot here was the house tax. I suppose the Labour Party also wants the families of children to have a home. Housing tax shall also be increased. When we also know that the municipal charges in most municipalities will significantly increase also in the year 2000, together with the property tax, and there will be an increase in the price of all other forms of expenditure for families with children, I will go as far as possible within the limits of parliamentary expression and say that the Workers' Party's production as this agreement holds a distribution profile for the better for the low-paid is a truth with great modifications. Should I have expressed myself in my own dialect and through the tranny of lightning, I would probably have called it a great bluff. The Progress Party wants to give priority to a stable and secure framework for a family relationship. This does not mean that the Progress Party does not accept that a person chooses forms of life other than marriage. But marriage gives the best sense of security and stability, and it shows all the statistics. In today’s society, with high living costs and increased pressure from society on professional activity for both parents, the family policy pursued is essential. The party of progress is of the opinion that greater financial leeway for parents means increased freedom of choice and freedom to build the frames around their own family. The progress party therefore wants to lower the total tax burden, so that parents can organise their own time in the way that each family feels is doing the most for them. We respect that some parents choose professional activity for both, while other families choose that one is temporarily or permanently at home with the children. In particular, the Progress Party believes this is important for the first years of life of the children. The Progress Party is therefore pleased that cash support is now available in the budget for the year 2000 in full for the 2- and 3-year-olds. The Progress Party believes that there is reason to call out a warning that society has taken on more and more the role of parents as commissioners, given the social confusion to which we are witnessing. It is therefore with great disappointment that the Progress Party sees that the agreement between the Workers' Party and the Government for the year 2000 continues and strengthens public involvement in the private home. It is important that the active education of children be brought back to/with parents, and this possibility of active participation by parents can best be provided by increasing the freedom of choice and financial autonomy of families. In the 1999 alternative budget of the Progress Party, we had a re-priority for the private kindergartens, approx. 230 million. kr. It is regrettable that, in comparison with the Labour Party, the Government does not consider it appropriate in the 2000 budget to promote measures for existing private kindergartens, but prioritises incentives for the construction of new kindergartens and general increases in the operating grant. I have to say, I find it strange that at a time when kindergartens in the individual municipalities are laid over a low shoe, we should therefore stimulate the construction of new ones. Those who believe in increasing operating grants of 100 million. I think I will be disappointed in the year 2000. One also finds it strange that the Government does not consider it necessary to take exceptional measures to reduce discrimination between private and municipal kindergartens, as was the agreement between the Government and the Progress Party and the Right, but only pushes this forward by referring to the kindergarten notification. The Progress Party has also not put in place any exceptional measures aimed at the private kindergartens in the budget for 2000, but will, like the Conciliation Comrades, come back with proposals for re-priorities and legislative proposals aimed at a fairer child care policy in the context of the forthcoming Childcare Communication. Of course, the Progress Party is pleased that the Government is now proposing extended child welfare, to 18 years, from 1 May, which the Progress Party has been working for for 15 years. However, with regard to further proposals on child-rearing, the Progress Party is not as satisfied. That one here deprives the families of children of hundreds of millions in the first four months is probably a zero game against the Workers' Party's tax bill for the same groups. The Progress Party therefore proposes that both the allowance be maintained in the current form and that the child benefit rates be maintained and that the child benefit be extended to 18 years by fresh means. The Progress Party considers that the public has an important role to play in relation to consumer matters. Of course, the highest priority is to facilitate the optimum functioning of the market. This, of course, is not an obstacle to this work being carried out effectively. The Progress Party therefore wishes to combine all consumer policy choices and overall efficiency. In principle, we also believe that all state involvement in gender equality policy should be liquidated in its present form. This should be left to the individual in its entirety by means of the Equality Act and the employee/employer organisations together with ideological organisations. I find it strange that adults, up-and-coming people, who already have several speakers, should have their own representative with extensive agencies around to care for their interests and laws. The Progress Party therefore removes the appropriations allocated to the Gender Equality Ombudsman and the Gender Equality Competence Centre in the budget for 2000. With regard to the country's crisis centres, I see that the government has now presented an action plan where they want to focus on crisis centres. The Progress Party has already prioritised these in the 2000 budget, pointing out that the State should take greater responsibility for this. The Progress Party therefore proposes that the allocation be increased so that the State takes 75 pst. of costs – 23 million. kr. This will provide a network of crisis centres independent of local government finances.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1503	The President would point out that the representative’s use of the word ‘bløff’, even in a trändersk version, cannot be said to be a particularly appropriate parliamentary expression. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1508	I belong to those who have perhaps not been most enthusiastic about an agreement with the central government, but after hearing Sandberg tell you that this was both inconsistency and disappointment for most, I have realized that the Workers' Party is on the right track. Because I think that Sandberg's progress party budget had not only been inconclusive and disappointing, it would also have been a disaster for the Norwegian people. I allow myself to grasp the very word that Sandberg’s representative used, the word ‘bløff’, because he thought that the cooperation and the policy that we conducted might be to trick the Norwegian people. But the Progress Party is very excited about the trade organisation and LO when they're in the election campaign. They say that income policy cooperation between the social partners is important; it is important for the country's economy. The progress party also says that an agreement is an agreement. It is only so sad that when the agreement is made by the social partners, it does not apply to the Progress Party. The 1999 budget contrasted with the waiting wage agreement, the housing loan agreement for government employees and the AFP scheme. The only agreement that the Progress Party seems to have sacred is the cash support agreement. So the question of Sandberg is actually like this: can the trade-organized trust in the Progress Party this year also by the party violating all the agreements that have been concluded with the social partners, and thus the Progress Party appears to be the organisations' enemy no. 1?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1515	Yes, I fully understand that the representative Fossum would regard it as a disaster if the Progress Party were to have an impact on its policy. This will, of course, result in less executive power over the inhabitants of that country by the people of Fossum and their colleagues. If there's something the Working Party fears, then of course it is. The party of progress is of an opposite opinion. We want to delegate the power and the provision and authority to the people, so that politicians of the representative Fossum will listen to what is desired and needed out there among people. So the Labour Party is running a counter-politics. With regard to the Progress Party and the relationship with organisations and trade unions, we fully agree that trade unions should have as free a role as possible. But that does not mean that we in the Progress Party want to allow a contract agency that will increase the expenses of other residents in this country. Arrangements such as housing loans and waiting wages, which cost hundreds of millions of people who have concluded these agreements, are against us. It has to be equality and justice in relation to it. Then I must be allowed to say in conclusion: When we want to remove these arrangements in our budget, it is of course a signal that if we had the power, it would not have been possible to conclude such agreements, because then the agreements had to be concluded at local level, individually between the employee and the employer. There shouldn't be general agreements that apply to the whole population.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1524	The representative Sandberg largely adhered to his own budget areas, as he said, and he is also responsible for the chapter which includes the support of the political parties. The party of progress is known to cut the whole lot. Yes, I'm not saying anything if they sometimes felt it was just as good to get rid of the whole party. Family policy is also part of Sandberg's territory. I noticed that Sandberg is engaged in the same areas of family policy as the Christian People's Party and the Government are, with the exception of some areas such as equality policy, where the policy of the Progress Party is not so well developed, really. What we agree on is not least the proposal for the full phase-in of the cash support for children under 3 years of age, and there is an agreement between us. This is the biggest family policy reform in a long time. It is also the extension of child welfare from 16 to 18 years of age, which will prove to be a very positive arrangement for families. But then it's on one of Sandberg's committee areas where we all separate teams with the Progress Party, and that's cultural policy. The Progress Party would cut 1 billion in the cultural budget as early as 2000, if it had a majority. One of the consequences of this would be that thousands of cultural workers in Norway lost their jobs. But for Sandberg and the Progress Party, the most important thing in life is to reduce taxes and taxes. It has already been quoted earlier in the debate from one of the comments of the Progress Party in the position of the Financial Committee, where it is, among other things. it reads that: «general wage earners tax so much that they have to give up daily dinners because opera tickets are to be subsidized.» This comment must also be answered by the cultural politician Sandberg. My question is: does Sandberg really also think that the cost of culture reduces Norwegian employees' daily dinners?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1540	I was about to say that one gets hungry by less. I am very pleased that the representative Lånke used at least half of his line to note that the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party have areas we agree on. Not everyone wants to appear with that either. In the case of political party support – yes, we are quite clear about it. We don't see the need for public authorities to grant batch support in the form that you're doing now. I also see that other parties and politicians in other parties gradually have the same ideas, if not as much as the Progress Party. As far as taxes, taxes and culture are concerned, it is clear that we need to see a context in that. When we feel that we are subsidising theatre tickets up to 800 kroner, it is clear that this must have an impact on income. We collect a whole lot of taxes and taxes to return to spending 800 kroner per person. ticket to those who may go to the theatre. In the case of opera, Lånke knows a lot more about the subsidisation of the prices there, so I will not mention that. But indirectly, we're bringing in a whole lot of taxes and taxes to give back to cultural institutions. This means that we reduce people's freedom of choice by imposing taxes and charges on them because politicians – the other politicians – want to sit and control culture and what cultural experiences people most should have. We disagree. When we look at the new Opera to be set up gradually, when we see that the Opera today is subsidized by 160-170 million. And we know that this might increase to 250 million. kr per year, and we will spend between 500 and 600 million until 2007. NOK in the year of the Opera, it goes without saying that the 600 million are taken from Norwegian taxpayers and tax payers.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1551	The representative Sandberg was concerned with the situation of kindergartens. Figures from the department now show that where the distribution key for the expenditure on kindergartens should have been that the state covered 40 pst., the parents 30 pst. and the municipality 30 pst., covers the municipality only 7 pst. of the operating costs of private kindergartens. These figures crack enormously from the municipality to the municipality. The reality is – and it also writes the department itself – that approx. 15 pst. are now in danger of being closed down by kindergartens. The representative Sandberg was in the spring party very concerned about it with private kindergartens, and also said in his post that the Progress Party had spent money on this. My question is: why has the Progress Party not relied on the Right proposal to grant $227 million? kr to private kindergartens in next year's state budget? Has the representative Sandberg given up the hope of getting something for the private kindergartens, or is it simply that he has not been able to benefit from his own big group for this proposal, which he himself has previously launched?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1558	I noticed that the right has now added 227 million. kr in its alternative budget. The question from the representative of Greece was why the Progress Party did not do this for the year 2000. My question back to Greece must be: Why did not the Right Advance Party follow when we submitted it for the current year? There we stood alone. It was a competition question. In addition, I fully agree with the representative of Greece. There should be no fear of the Progress Party in this matter. We're gonna be at the barricades of the private kindergartens. But if the question is whether we want to give additional funds to the kindergartens, I have to disappoint the representative of Greece, because the funds are there. The problem we're looking at is this about equality between private and public kindergartens. When we know that municipalities are transferred between NOK 3 and 4 billion in their framework transfers to this group, it is clear that the municipalities have problems prioritising the funds. At least we're going to be able to get back the 40-30-30 distribution. That's absolutely right. But the point now must be to start a comprehensive study of what municipalities do with the DKK 3-4 billion that they get here, whether they spend it on the children, or whether they go for other purposes. We also need to look at what the different labour party-driven municipalities have done in relation to the kindergartens and kindergartens, because it is not to be concealed that new restrictions and new rules have been imposed on municipal kindergartens in many labour party-driven municipalities. In order for private kindergartens to be included in the same pattern, they must expand both staff and area, etc. This causes problems for the private kindergartens in the municipalities. That's also why I pointed out in my post that it's strange that we're going to spend millions building new kindergartens, when we see that 15 pst. of which they are in the process of going bankrupt.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1570	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1573	We have known the main features of the budget position for several weeks. We got an early budget settlement this year. That is why this debate can become more a debate on who is cooperating with who, rather than a debate on the content of the budget. For the Christian People's Party, the content of politics and budgetary matters have always been crucial to whom we cooperate. Some claim that this is winging. I'd rather claim it's good real policy, where the centre parties lean to different parties, where it's possible to get enough support. We also have the attitude that cooperation means influence for those who participate, and that there is something ‘give and take’. This also applies to the budget agreement of the year, and I believe that the Christian People's Party has had a good impact on its priorities. If we look into the next millennium, you don't have to be a fortune-teller to see that knowledge and entrepreneurship are important factors for development and adaptability. We therefore need knowledge development and better quality in our education system. The budget for 2000 represents a new heading in research appropriations and gives important signals of increased investment in the years ahead. The research fund is given increased capital and universities are strengthened in order to be better able to take responsibility for basic research. But if we're to succeed in achieving our goals, we also need to increase R & D efforts from business. It will be a challenge to facilitate this. The government has also proposed important investments in schools in the budget. During the election campaign, the Government put forward a package of ICT bets focusing on both the training of teachers and the development of new pedagogical methods, as well as equipment and easier access to Internet services. The initiative will start first at the youth level, that part of the school system with the main challenges. It shall be monitored in the budget of the year. During the election campaign in the fall there were many great promises of a bet at school. The number of strikes in schools needs to be understood in the light of the high expectations created, both in terms of salary increases for teachers and other bets. It must be a disappointment for those who believed in these promises. But salary increases don't come into the budget, it happens in pay negotiations. On the other hand, through the budget agreement, we have given even better finances to the municipalities, which can prevent the biggest cuts in the school sector. Like Hill-Marta Solberg, I hope that the free resources that the municipalities now receive will be used for the school, but also realize that the various places will be used to fulfill the promises within, among others. care for the elderly. Nevertheless, I would argue that the budget as a whole involves important measures to provide a better school. Should children and young people be able to benefit from school, it is important that not only the learning environment is good, but that social relations also provide security and challenges. A modern family policy is necessary for children and young people to receive the support they need for good growth and education. I am therefore pleased that the budget agreement provides for improvements in the family's child welfare by extending it up to the age of 18. For me, it's totally incomprehensible that the Right only manages to see the effect for the next year on the children's families without having a longer perspective on growing up time. I believe that we young children's parents are able to live with a little less child-rescue today when we know that we can keep it for two years. This grip is important, and then we get to work for a price adjustment of child welfare in the years to come. I'm also pleased that fathers are now given their own rights in popular security at maternity leave. I hope this system can be further developed in the future. Together with the increase in cash support, this shows that the Christian People's Party is having its family reforms implemented. Several communities face a difficult process of conversion related to oil sector activities. The base is now mature, and we reap from our investments. It means fewer jobs for the supplier industry than we've had in recent years. I am pleased that the budget agreement takes local communities, such as the United Kingdom. Verdal, seriously by focusing on empowerment and innovation. I expect the government to follow the situation carefully for these one-sided industrial sites and contribute to a good conversion process. Finally, let me say that I am pleased that we are now adopting a budget with several good measures for our country, but where we are also able to increase aid to the poor world. Without such international solidarity, our own wealth becomes poor.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1594	The desire for a fair distribution policy has been central to the efforts of the Workers' Party to achieve a budgetary settlement with the government parties. A step in the right direction is now being taken. Further progress towards a fairer distribution in our society can best be made at the intersection of the Workers' Party-SV and the Centre Parties. However, after the interview on Dagsrevyen yesterday with the parliamentary leader of the Left, Gunnar Kvassheim, where he clearly wanted Right as a future partner, a question about the will of the smallest centre party for such a development can be asked. Then it is good to know that after all the sun tags, the Left does not necessarily need to be part of the parliamentary basis for a future government that will work further in this direction. For this time it was necessary to ‘accept’ the cash support. However, this does not mean that the scheme will improve for that reason. The cash support scheme and the future attitude of the Workers' Party towards it will be a very important theme at our national meeting next autumn. Therefore, I do not want to go into a further discussion of the scheme and its arrangements, but just state that through the cash support, and also through the child benefit, it is distributed billions of government dollars without a distributional and social profile at the bottom. The government's loss and paralysis of action towards the exposed industry has been eye-catching and very alarming. During the examination of the revised national budget in June, the Stortinget Government issued mandates to enable it to do its part in order to ensure that ready-to-use oil and gas fields could be realized. Nothing happened, however. For the Workers' Party, therefore, it has been necessary through the budgetary conciliation to take immediate action to mitigate the fall in investment activity on the Socket. Action packages for cancellations and lay-offs at the offshore yards and in the supplier industry due to today’s order-darkness have also been a very important and crucial point for the Workers’ Party in the negotiations. Strengthening the labour market seat by increasing the number of action places was absolutely necessary. A key prerequisite for success in this work is cooperation between the parties involved. It is therefore gratifying that the feedback from the local communities concerned is that municipalities, labour market offices, businesses and trade unions are now in good dialogue in order to recover the increased resources for actions aimed at the benefit of both retired and outsourced workers. The relevant package of measures must have a profile that allows for the continuation and further development of the competence of the Norwegian shipyard and supplier industries. These are assumptions that not least the trade movement has underlined. So on to what concerns my own committee, the Justice Committee. The implementation of the Schengen cooperation is within the framework of the next year’s state budget. For Norway, this cooperation is very important, both in terms of freedom of movement across internal borders and effective external border control. Together with other international police cooperation, such as Europol and Interpol, we are given important tools in combating the increasingly cross-border serious international organised crime. For the Workers' Party, a whole in the criminal justice chain is of paramount importance. The police have been allocated considerable resources in recent years. We need a strong police force. But that's the way forward. all important, as is the case in society, that the use of the allocated funds is required in the most efficient and results-oriented manner possible. For the current year, 275 new police posts have been set up in connection with the large hill that was graduated from the Police College. The Labour Party wants the high number of newly trained police officers to be secured next year. These two-year increases in positions represent a further strong strengthening of the police. When increasing the salaries of judges and measures for recruiting and training new judges, one of these budgets also facilitates the proper exercise of its important functions by the courts. However, as far as the last paragraph of the chain, the criminal justice system is concerned, one from the Government has not facilitated its operation in line with last year's criminal law notification. In the internal budgetary work of the Judicial Committee, we are able to provide the area with more funds, but in close enough. There are major challenges to the future state budget. Finally, I would like to mention that, through the budgetary agreement, it was possible to establish the scheme of a fund for the search for the dead at sea. The government had not, on its own initiative, followed up the timetable set by the Grand Duchy of Justice for the formation of any fund. There is now great joy among many along the coast who have engaged in this work. In particular, the Fish Archipelago has reason to be satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-25-2.ana.ud554e1630	The President will propose that today's meeting be suspended and that the items listed on Agenda No be dealt with. 18, resuming tomorrow at 6 p.m. 10th@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
