ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e15	The representative, Brother Yngve Rahm, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e30	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 999]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e44	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1000]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e58	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1000]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e72	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1000]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e86	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1000]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e100	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1000]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e114	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1000]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e128	The main objective of the proposal by the representative Morten Lund is to clarify the law so that people with a strong connection to the country will be taxed to be resident here and thus be generally taxable to Norway. Of course, it's a goal to prevent those who tend the most to avoid paying taxes to Norway because of a large hole in the tax regime. The centre party is occupied by people's jurisprudence. It's absolutely crucial for ordinary people's tax morals that those who care the most pay taxes and provide to the community. Proposals to close these tax havens are important to strengthen the universal tax morality. I would also like to point out to the Directorate of Taxation that regulatory changes/precisions are becoming increasingly relevant with the increased internationalisation of Norwegian business. Following the presentation of the proposal by the representative Morten Lund, the Tax Directorate has asked the Ministry of Finance to take the initiative for a legislative change in the case of housing registration in Norway and the tax liability of Norway. I am pleased that the Committee on Finance was consulted to point out that the Ministry of Finance is considering presenting changes/precisions in tax law and the People's Registry Regulation, and that the Committee would therefore be waiting for the Ministry of Finance to propose changes/precisions. On behalf of the Centre Party, I look forward to the Ministry of Finance producing changes/precisions in tax laws and the public register regulations that can be included and dense tax ceilings that some have chosen to adapt to on a lasting basis.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e139	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1000]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e153	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Left 10 minutes and Representative Bastisen 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose to allow for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e164	: By default, there is no particular attention to the credit notification that the Storting has for processing once a year. This cottage was different. The housing of all the axes of the credit fund updated the issues of structural policy and state ownership in the banking industry. The Labour Party has previously agreed to clear leadership in structural policy and to secure the national ownership of the two largest commercial banks, DnB and the Bank of Credit. In the 1990s, Norwegian and international banking industries have been characterised by major structural changes. Strong driving forces have led to internationalisation and tougher competition. In the north and in Europe, the introduction of the euro has also strengthened this. Banks meet this challenge in different ways. The largest banks and insurance companies in the Nordic region define the whole of the Nordic region as their home market. What's happening in the banks, we've also seen in other industries, where many Norwegian companies have joined international groupings. It is particularly since 1997 that banks have focused on the Nordics as their home market. Since 1990, the largest Nordic banks have established 21 branches or subsidiaries in Helsinki, Copenhagen, Oslo and Stockholm. More than half of these establishments have occurred since 1997. Until now, none of the Norwegian banks have defined the Nordic as their home market. Both in the DnB and in the Credit Fund, the aim of establishing abroad is to be able to offer Norwegian customers international services, for example. because our industrial companies are oriented towards the rest of the world. Globalisation of the economy is both an advantage and a challenge for Norway. Our welfare depends on access to foreign capital and access to foreign markets. Therefore, Norway must also be an active participant in the global economy. At the same time, it is a challenge to secure a national financial system and that important head offices for industry and other business can be in Norway. Our banks have seen this and have been active. The savings bank NOR and Versatile have merged. Last Wednesday the merger between DnB and Postbanken was a reality, Storebrand Bank has purchased Finanzbanken, SpareBank 1 The group has entered into an extensive alliance with the Swedish Association Bank, The Danish Bank has purchased Focus Bank and the Handelsbanken has purchased Bergensbanken. The credit institution has tried different possibilities for growth. In 1997, the Grandbrand and the Credit Fund presented plans for merger, which were downgraded. Later we know that the Postbank, the Credit Bank and Focus Bank would merge. These things didn't lead to anything. The last one so far is that SpareBank 1 The group will buy WE bank and insurance. With the background of what has happened both at home and out in our banking industry, it is almost unlikely that the government provided a credit message about the structural policy where almost everything should be like before. But there is also a development within the Government. For after today's Business wrote on 2 December, the Minister of Finance says: “There are things happening even after it” – the credit message – “was written, and a lot can happen in a short time. Looked back one year in time, and see what happened in the financial sector. If you think similar forward in time, it may have happened very much at that time." Yes – this is actually the case. According to the Labour Party’s opinion, the State that owns must facilitate the development of the largest Norwegian banks as well. It is a good option for international development to go through Nordic solutions. The Nordic markets are highly integrated both through extensive trade and through direct investment. The state ownership of the banks is important in securing national ownership. National ownership can ensure that the head office functions become in Norway. Major strategic decisions and product developments will normally be related to the head office. Closeness between bank and customer leasing is particularly important for individuals, small and medium-sized enterprises and municipalities that have little international financial market as a real alternative. The bank’s food skills are largely transferred to the head office. Technological developments reinforce this image by constantly demanding new knowledge of IT, risk management and capital management. Without strong head offices in the financial industry, Norway will be able to stand without such special competence, and Norwegian institutions will then stand as pure distributors of financial services. It's by exercising state ownership that one can secure a financial center of gravity with head office functions in Norway. For the Workers' Party, the most important thing now is that ownership of the banks is collected in a strong Norwegian financial institution. It is only through consolidation that the state that owns can help to maintain and further develop the Norwegian financial environment. It is therefore in the area of ownership and guidelines for structural policy that we are in the committee. In the credit message, the Government did not come up with any suggestions for changes in the country's ownership. From the Workers' Party's side, we've said clearly that this kind of financial industry has evolved, it's hard to keep up with the state ownership of both our commercial banks. That's why we think it's right to concentrate it on a bank. The result of the process here in the house when it comes to state ownership is that the state should participate in a strong Norwegian solution on the financial market, and of course the Labour Party is satisfied with that. The Labour Party and the representative Bastisen believe that one must be more active in the sense that a user may receive any income from the sale of axes to strengthen state ownership of the national solutions that are being established or to strengthen state involvement in other parts of our banking industry. In the guidelines, the government suggested that a merger between DnB and the credit card should be ignored. After the working party's opinion, one in the direction lines should not ignore specific structural solutions. This also has the center part joined. This plurality has underlined the importance of soundness and adequate competition in concession cases. In addition, I think that it is important to focus on a pooling of competences and to benefit consumers and add them. That being said, I would add that the majority consider it to be negative if the only coordination gains that can be identified by a merger between the DnB and the Credit Fund are linked to cost cuts in the closure of branches where both banks are currently established. The government proposed that the two commercial banks should be treated equally in relation to the issue of ownership. I'm glad that the center party is in agreement with the Labour Party that one who owns has to do it is straight out of ownership. That is to say, one does not necessarily have to focus on the equal management of ownership in the two commercial banks, but, of course, when it comes to concession requests, it is important that all be treated equally. The Government has submitted that the State Bank Investment Fund shall nominate representatives of the Board of Directors of DnB and the Credit Fund. So the direction of the fund needs to be changed. The Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right are opposed to this change. I would like to stress that Stortinget has reason to believe that the State that owns bankers should not directly interfere with the bank's daily business. The purpose of the ownership of the state in the commercial banks has not been changed, so the direction lines are not changed. In the financial sector, major changes have occurred only in the last year. That's why we were concerned when the government so passively sent out a credit message without corks to do anything about the ownership of the state or to discuss what one would with the state ownership. After the management of the committee, where the centre party has had a much more active attitude to the issues, we are very pleased by the Labour Party that there is a majority of the Centre Party and the Labour Party that have agreed that an important objective is to secure a long-term national ownership of the finance industry to secure head offices in Norway. The State must pool its ownership interests into a unit, thus ensuring national ownership by holding at least one third of the shares. One of these devices must exist. get conditions and opportunities for further development in Norway and the Nordic countries. Before such a device is in place, any sequence of axes in the credit card may not be executed. A Norwegian solution must first be in place. The Minister of Finance is now receiving a signal from Stortinget. The guidelines on soundness, competition and state ownership are in place. The size should be corked to create new banks or sell axles, that's the government that's being formed. When the Minister of Finance says this can take time, I'm of a different opinion. There are now many players in the market who have figured out what they want. The Bank Investment Fund may also be ready to start the process they are to carry out. Now it is important that the Minister of Finance initiates a process around this – and manages the process. However, it should not be long before we have a future-oriented Norwegian financial unit that takes account of national ownership. I recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e222	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e225	The representative of Frøiland said that the Workers' Party had previously been in favour of clear leadership in structural policy. I want to ask Frøiland, when did they end it? The treatment of the credit notification does not show that the Workers' Party has these clear positions as the representative stood on this platform and boasted that the Workers' Party had. When Frøiland also says that the Minister of Finance has now received a ‘walk signal from Stortinget’, one can almost understand the Minister of Finance when he says it may take some time. For he has not received any signal as to which direction he should go, how fast he should go, and what he should go towards. I have to admit that I had thought that after all the riot that the Workers' Party created around its own role related to the handling of the credit notification, at least something clear would come up, something clear, something predictable and something long-term out of the Workers' Party's handling of these very important questions. I would like to ask the representative of Frøiland to explain to the assembly what the Workers' Party wants. It's very good to throw around with words and expressions that you have to follow the structural development etc. Yes, Norway has been running after it for many years! When the state today owns 60 pst. by DnB, is it not then possible, according to the Workers' Party, to ensure a strong, Norwegian solution based in that bank? Or do you have to keep your ownership in the credit fund to get it done? It was also said by the representative of Frøiland that she thought it was amazing that the government had submitted a credit report that in some way did not bring anything, everything was the same as before. What has the Workers' Party contributed through the treatment of the credit notification that may indicate that everything has now been changed?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e236	It is true that the Labour Party and the Progress Party have quite different attitudes to the division of labour between government and collapse. In the Labour Party, we believe it is right that we should adopt the structural policy guidelines, and we should discuss the state ownership of the banks. From 1996 until today, the state has its own seat in both banks, and we say very clearly from today that we want to concentrate our ownership of one of these banks. And then we say what we've all been told about when it's about soundness and competition in relation to concession. It's those who are in banks today and who want to practice the business idea around their bank, who are looking for a concession. We're not going to decide what to do here in Stortinget, it's the government that's going to do. We're going to focus on it in the direction lines. The government has to do the operational job. It looks like the Progress Party thinks it's fun from the Stortinget's side to sit down and say that now we have axes for sale, and now we're going to create new banks – the Labour Party thinks it's not in place to do it, it's totally wrong to do it. The government is supposed to do that job. If the credit card is not part of a large Norwegian solution, it is clear that the axes are there for sale. Now there are a lot of people who have said a lot about how to organise the Norwegian banking system. We say that a large Norwegian unit must be in place before there are axes for sale in some banks. It has also joined the center, so I have great confidence that this can be done by the finance minister, but he doesn't have to spend so much time on it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e243	I agree with the representative of Frøiland when she says that the Government has acted passively on the new challenges we face with regard to financial institutions. But there is also the end of the consensus, to decrypt what Ranveig Frøiland and the Workers' Party believe in this matter, the jam is not easy. If you want a Norwegian alternative, you can do it through DnB, where today the state owns 60 pst. If the Workers' Party wants DnB and the Credit Bank to merge, why don't you say that? The point is that it is absolutely impossible for the Minister of Finance when he is told that he receives a signal from Stortinget. Now we know that the Minister of Finance usually likes to run, but getting a walking signal without being told what direction you want, it's very difficult. I think it's a sort of lack of honesty that you can't decide here and now whether you want DnB and then build on it together with Storebrand, for example, or whether there's a big merger between the banks you want. I certainly believe that Ranveig Frøiland has thought about it, but why does she not share it with the Stortinget and the Minister of Finance, so that we can hear what the Labour Party really stands for and believes? Is it just meant for the inner circles of the party, or is there so much disagreement in the party that at this point you can't give any clear signals? That's the one question. The second is: if we are to create a large Norwegian unit, should we not have a banking or industrial policy idea behind it? I guess it's not like we politicians and Hopland in the Bank Investment Fund and others are going to make the big design, and we agree that this is the way it should be. You probably also need someone who, on a commercial basis, designs that merger and believes that it is actually possible to make money on this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e250	I still mean that our big banks are the best ones able to develop both the business idea and put it into practice. I have seen in today's business that it is sometimes that the Storting should take care of it, but it seems to me that the Storting is completely inappropriate to do, that the banks must do themselves. Then, from the Labour Party's side, we've said that one must be more active in the sense that one should be involved and spend money, if it's an expanded capital, and if there's a desire to go out, one who owns not sit and block, but is in the hands of the decisions taken on the bank's board. I want to go back to the first question, if we are going to sit here and tell what kind of banks we want to enter the big Norwegian unit. We have 60 pst. ownership by the State side of the DnB and the Kreditkasse today. So Børge Brende says that we have to tell you clearly about a big merger between DnB and the Bank of Credit. No, if any of them want to apply for a concession, it's the concession authority, i.e. the government, that's going to decide. We have said that competition vis-à-vis the audience, the customers and the candidates must be present if it is to happen – all this that the Competition Authority is to last, they must also be allowed to do their job. I don't think banks, corks when it comes to structure, guidelines or concessions are owned by Stortinget. It is the property of a government, it is the property of those who operate in the financial industry, the Competition Authority, the Banking Investment Fund, the credit institution, consumer organisations – everyone has to express their opinion on this in the usual way. We're not going to deal with this in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e257	The representative of Frøiland said in his speech that the Labour Party is opposed to nominating representatives of a government in an enterprise where the state is very large co-owners. The government has proposed this possibility. We in the Center Party are in any case some of the things that this is a way of vitalizing the ownership role, being more active, and 'active' was something that Frøiland's representative said that the Government was not through this message. In any case, this is an attempt to invite the Storting to revitalise the activity when it comes to exercising the ownership role. It is normal for each owner to search for an impact on its ownership through the board. Now we have carried on in DnB and Postbanken such an arrangement with board representatives. It is also in the arrangement that a non-intervention should be performed or that it should be reported back. And my question is, what is the Workers' Party's real reason besides that everything at this point should be like before? The next thing I want to spend the time reminding the representative of Frøiland is that she said that the sale of state-owned axes in the credit card is not relevant. Now we know that the state and the finance minister can sell down axes in DnB, in which we have a very large share. In my opinion, it would be wise to wait. My question is, what is the Workers' Party's view of this point?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e266	I want to take the last question first: it's in the budget that one should sell off from 60 pst. to one-third in DnB. When the Minister of Finance and the State Bank Investment Fund find it reasonable to do so, they make it on the basis of a holistic assessment, as one did when one had the sale of the state axes. I think it would be unwise for Storting to say that now we're going to do it, now we're not going to do it. That assessment takes the Staten Bank Investment Fund – and we are some of them in that the axans are going to sell down. But the assessment to be made around this is the Minister of Finance to make. When we've said that we don't agree to change what goes on for the State Bank Investment Fund to nominate members of the board, it's precisely from the honest and real assessment we've had all along, that the state that owns bankers should not intervene directly in the daily business of the banks. It is clear that one can say, if the State Bank Investment Fund is to nominate the Board, that the Board does not deal with the direct daily operations. But it is also clear that the board is involved in the assessment of large loans. We've read this house about the big loans that have been given by DnB's government. I must say that I thought it would have been very unfortunate if the state were to sit with different hats on, take them off when one was in charge and should be in charge and evaluate the large loans, and take them on again when one should consider whether this was contrary to both the one and the other. Supervision must also have a controlling function. That's why I think it's neat that we stick to it that when you're the owner, you're not in the board, because then you have a completely different responsibility than a seat in the board of directors.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e275	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e279	The credit notification rarely receives much attention, either in the financial committee or in the Stortinget. And although this year's announcement is an exception, there is no need to be further impressed, either on the content, that comes from the Government, or on the results that the Committee has produced. On one important point, the Progress Party is in the majority of the Committee, and there is State representation in the boards of the commercial banks. It is essential, in our view, that, as long as the State has interests in those banks, it is important to distinguish between the State's role as concession authority and the State's role as owner. And then it's important that the management of state interests places decisive emphasis on business considerations, and not on other substituting factors, depending on which parties are in the government position. But what has been updated has become topical in this debate: what is contained in the concept of ‘national ownership’ on the part of the majority? And equally, what is the definition of a strong Norwegian solution? In the view of the Progress Party, the majority is proposing a policy towards Norwegian financial corporations which are neither an advantage to the financial industry itself nor to society, which the industry actually serves. The enormous passivity shown by both the government parties and the Labour Party in this matter weakens the Norwegian financial industry. The notification does not signal a desire to harmonise the Norwegian financial industry legislation with what is customary internationally in order to ensure competitive Norwegian financial institutions. The communication is fairly clear on structural policy issues. It should also refer to the role that finance is supposed to play in Norwegian society. The driving force behind many of the structural solutions sought by the industry is not due to the characteristics of the industry itself, but to the changes that occur elsewhere in society. And if we want to assess the role of Norwegian banks in society, and at the same time look at the needs of different customer groups, governments should contribute to a structure for industry by assessing both framework conditions and ownership. The Progress Party has always believed that both competence and capital are key words in relation to the requirements and needs of the Norwegian business community for the financial industry. For large parts of the customer base, today’s local, regional and national banks are good suppliers of the services that customers demand. However, for a number of other companies, especially the largest and international ones, Norwegian banks are not currently able to provide sufficient services, and it is already reflected in the choices made by the companies by choosing foreign banking connections, which have sufficient capital and competence. And then Stortinget's challenge is to take the structural steps that enable Norwegian banks to also serve those customers. The extensive concentration and internationalisation taking place both within and outside the financial industry cannot be ignored by the Norwegian authorities simply because it does not seem desirable to do so. Today, Norwegian authorities stand in the way of the ability and willingness of Norwegian financial institutions to position themselves. Norwegian commercial banks must be allowed to participate in mergers, alliances and bids. In this context, the State as the owner of bank shares must assess the financial offer and the need for further strengthening of the offer to Norwegian customers. It is high time that Norwegian authorities recognised the need for participation in a European capital and financial market. Such a single market means that countries compete for important establishments, that operators in the Norwegian market may be subject to different framework conditions than those existing today, that competition policy is no longer just a national issue, but an international one, and that special regulation can have direct negative industrial policy consequences. In fact, the framework conditions set by the authorities should focus on regulating sufficient soundness, effective competition, safeguarding the minimum interests of consumers and businesses and harmonising legislation with the EU as far as possible. The requirement on original own funds should be harmonised with other countries, the rules on own funds should be removed in order to stimulate liquidity and active private ownership, the cross-ownership rules must be harmonised and the guarantee fund scheme must be more consistent with those of the competing countries. For a very long time, Norwegian authorities have been following developments rather than attaching their grip and stimulating structural and product development through an offensive change to the framework conditions. But there is a lack of cash from the majority in this room. There is a concrete bid on the credit fund, and the majority have no power to express either a willingness to sell or other concrete solutions. Instead, the majority is deferred to decide on the question under the pretext of finding a solution for a full-time Norwegian variant first, and at least so far, one has not stated in clear order that it will be the credit fund. It all gets very strange to me when the state owns 60 pst. by DnB and thus controls the future of this bank. I would therefore like to raise the proposal from the Party of Advances and the Right that the State's shares in the Credit Fund should be sold as soon as possible. Otherwise, I cannot see so many good reasons why the State should have to own shares in Norwegian banks at all to take care of Norwegian interests. In fact, the Progress Party has also shown in this process the willingness to find subsidiary solutions to create as broad a parliamentary majority as possible in this Chamber. But it has also been ignored. All our attempts to enter into dialogue with both the government parties and, in and on their own, the Workers' Party have in one way only been parked. You haven't been interested in that kind of dialogue, and we can just take note of that. In any event, it must be concluded that the majority of the handling of these very key issues has not exactly contributed to the strengthening of the Norwegian reputation abroad, and there is reason to fear the consequences for other listed companies where the State has interests. Finally, I would like to refer to proposals that have also been included in the Innst. O. No 19 on financial activities to be dealt with at Odelstinget later today. The Progress Party promotes a number of legislative proposals that are aimed at harmonising the acquis for Norwegian financial institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e309	Siv Jensen has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e314	Siv Jensen stated that she was not particularly impressed with what the majority today has formulated in the position, and which will obviously be adopted. I noticed Siv Jensen's warm mention of framework conditions, and I think we agree on that, and the conditions of ownership and Norwegian business and society in general. Siv Jensen also said that in order to ensure Norwegian interests, this was important with the framework conditions and the other elements. Then she went further into the proposal that the Progress Party is promoting today, namely the immediate sale of the shares in the Credit Fund, and she wants to dispose of the other shares that the State owns in the banking system. This I'm not going to harmonize. Doesn't Siv Jensen and the Progress Party see the need for a Norwegian financial industry? And how has the Progress Party intended to ensure national ownership? Because otherwise this won't work. My question to Siv Jensen in the end is: Good framework conditions do not prevent purchases from abroad at all, so how can this post to Siv Jensen harmonize when it is about to get rid of everything as quickly as possible, and then to safeguard social and business interests through good framework conditions, but the state will completely abandon the governance and interest of having an independent financial industry in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e323	I'm not sure if I understand the problem of the representative Nordtun, because when was it a read and assumed truth that the prerequisite for national ownership is that the state must be owner? In fact, there are a number of actors who have pointed out the exact opposite, namely that state ownership in commercial banks is a hindrance to the rational and normal development of a globalising financial market. And it is not the ownership of financial institutions itself that is important here, but that Norway can attract capital and financial institutions that are both to stimulate the individual consumers and not least the Norwegian industry that we very much want to be able to grow and develop. I do not agree with Tore Nordtun that the Labour Party and the Advance Party agree on the need for changing framework conditions. This message makes it perfectly visible that the working party does not have a plan. And the question I really want to put back is: Since the Workers' Party has been a driver for Norway to join the EU for many years, why is it not because the Workers' Party is a member of the EU-harmonizing Norwegian legislation that is distorting competition for the institutions we already have, and which requires them to operate under strange framework conditions, while foreign operators can come and compete in the Norwegian market on completely different terms than our Norwegian operators are subject to? I think the Labour Party should have been able to say something clear and clear about this through the management of the credit notification. But they have not done so skillfully. Now the case rapporteur, Frøiland, says that it is not up to the Storting to have any idea about it. Well, of course it does, because unless the Storting points out the direction, the way we're going, how can you expect the Government to go that way if the signals from this hall are not clear and clear?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e332	This debate is in many ways completely reversed by what a debate would have been like in any other national assembly in Europe. In southern European and Latin countries, national ownership is very important. This is why it has been seen that finance industries and banks are not like any sausage cane, and therefore it is important to have national control. It also exists in many foreign banks where the country is in a significant position, precisely to ensure the important functions of the banking system, to ensure that head office functions are provided in the country and that there is some healthy competition. In Norway it was the Progress Party that managed to say in a few minutes that the bid for the Bank of MeritaNordbanken was a very good bid. Long before we had the papers here in the house, one was able to draw an end to a bid between two commercial actors, which for me is totally unprofessional, in a way that the kind of important questions at all cannot be dealt with. What is then in one way the challenge because much of Jensen's contributions were about this is: If we accept – and we must – that capital flows freely across borders, and if we accept as premise that we should have a banking system that is part of the globalised world, how do we ensure that we have head offices in Norway? Well, you can do that in a number of ways, but the most important and easiest way is, of course, through state ownership, to ensure that you have a structure that contributes. So the question, is there long-term Norwegian private investors that will be a guarantor of it? No, experience actually doesn't. Experience has shown that the state can perform the function of a ‘sleeping partner’ in a bank, thus ensuring that the ringing effects benefit Norwegian society. For that I hope Siv Jensen agrees that the main function of the Norwegian banking system is to serve Norwegian customers, Norwegian companies, those who, after all, constitute the Norwegian financial market. For most banks it will be the main market, and I also hope that Siv Jensen agrees. My question is therefore: how is it possible for Siv Jensen to have such a provincial attitude to such an important industry?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e343	It is not that the Storting has just begun to talk about national ownership and head office location in Norway. You've been talking about that for years. But despite that desire, no world thing has been done with the framework conditions to enable the Norwegian institutions to strengthen their own position in the Norwegian market. It has been made quite the opposite: special Norwegian legislation, special Norwegian legislation, which has been anticompetitive for our own actors, who, after all, serve the Norwegian market. I fully agree with the representative of Djupedal that the main objective is of course to serve Norwegian customers, whether they are companies or individuals. But if they are to be able to do so, they must be guaranteed the possibility of doing so. And when the representative talks about the lack of long-term private investors, it's also this hall's fault that we don't have it, because for a long time now you've had a sky-high tax and tax pressure that at least hasn't helped us get more private investors in this nation, and because Øystein Djupedal and others have gone up on this pulpit and talked about the need to take even a little more from those who create values in this society. It is not that we have said that this hall should immediately accept the bid from MeritaNordbanken. If we had meant that, we would have put it into the proposal and said, "Sell the credit card shares to MeritaNordbanken!" What we have said is: Sell them, let them circulate, and let's see if there can be more commandments. Then you put the bank in a game, and then you see what's going to result from a process. But it's interesting to consider a Nordic solution. Even Frøiland's representative has clearly stated that it could be an interesting model. Why do you let the train leave the platform? I don't get it. I also think we agree that financial institutions are not a regular sausage bin, but it's actually going to have a long-term vision of this as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e354	First I have to say that it was an interesting post that the representative Siv Jensen made. Most interesting was the insertion when she rejected state ownership on a principle basis and thought that it might be a hindrance to the development of banks. I actually thought that it was Siv Jensen and Carl I. Hagen in the last month had been in charge, was more state ownership. But maybe it wasn't in the financial industry, because there it seems like a disability. It was perhaps within industry and other areas Siv Jensen had thought so. Since the representative Fridtjof Frank Gundersen is also sitting on almost the first row, I assume that the representative Jensen does not reject the issue, because when the representative Gundersen finds it necessary to go out with a reply in the newspaper and distance himself from both Siv Jensen and Carl I. Hagen’s great thoughts about state ownership, at least there must be something in it. What I had expected the Progress Party to focus on was not state ownership. What we need to focus on is that it is clear that it becomes difficult to acquire Norwegian ownership when the finance minister in the national budget compares the level of taxation of Nordic companies and only looks at the capital rate, and does not include the strange wealth tax, a type of tax that the Danish people have now abolished, and which the Swedes do not have on active ownership. It is clear that when MeritaNordbank can bid on the credit fund and go down to core capital coverage of 5 pst., while a Norwegian bank is not allowed to go under 7 pst., it is something with our framework conditions that is really wrong and that inhibits Norwegian companies and Norwegian financial institutions. It is also the case that the consolidation rules are different in Norway, and this also makes it more difficult. Looking at the new company that Storbrand and Skandia have established on the damage side, Skandia's side holds such a large stake that it could not have been established in Oslo. That's what I expected the Progress Party to focus, not state ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e363	It seemed that Børge Brende had prepared the line long before he heard my post, because I used a significant part of my post just to talk about the need for changed framework conditions. If the right had been concerned about the same thing, they would have joined the proposals we have made both through the credit notification and through the matter we are going to deal with afterwards in Odelstinget, which is actually about changing the framework conditions to put our institutions in a better competitive position. I have not yet seen that the Right has agreed to any of the proposals put forward by the Progress Party there. As far as tax is concerned, I do not think that the Right should strike too hard on the chest, because it is actually the Progress Party that is tough to reduce the tax on wealth through the budgetary procedure. We agree with the heart that there is a need to reduce taxes on wealth. So to this with ownership. It has never been claimed, either from my side or from Carl I. Hagen's side, that you want more active state ownership. That has never been said. What we've been talking about is how to put all the accumulated state capital into circulation in such a way that it strengthens Norwegian business, and not in such a way that you get more active state ownership that works the way it works today. This is a very long debate that I would like to take with Børge Burnde in another context. I don't think I'm going to be able to give an adequate answer to such an important question through a pocket card cord change. So to the last. The representative mentioned the Skandia case. One of the proposals we are going to address in Odelstinget is to ask the Government to look at the Skandia judgment that has just fallen, because seeing these things in the context can have quite a big impact on Norwegian insurance companies. Nor has the right-wing support been given to that proposal. It could have been okay about the Right, before they went up here and criticized the Advance Party, had thought through all the proposals that it was possible to agree with.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e374	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e377	Well-functioning financial institutions are needed for society to evolve. When reviewing the credit notification, one can conclude that the financial industry situation in Norway is satisfactory. At the same time, we know that this industry is constantly changing, and that changes have gone on and on at an ever faster pace. In an industry characterised by international competition, where enterprises and activities move easily across national borders, they should benefit from the powers of government, be designed to be general, stimulating and facilitating, and the supervisory activity should work well through laws, regulations and concessional requirements. In this context, I refer to Document No. 17 for 1997-98 and Innst. S. No 141 for 1998-99, which was handled in the United Kingdom on 6 May this year. The organisation of financial market surveillance activities was highlighted in the assessment of causality related to the banking crisis and further assessments and follow-up from the Government were taken into account. I believe it is very positive that the Government through this message as soon as it gives feedback on one of the central points, and further announces that one will come back to the others at a later date. I will now switch to what is most remarkable in connection with the following setting: the structure of the financial industry. I would like to point out the reason why the State is now holding a large share of the two major Norwegian commercial banks, the Kreditkassen and the Norwegian Bank. It is due, as everyone knows, to the banking crisis only in the 1990s, which led the state to enter as its owner in order to avoid the bankruptcy of the banks. It was then the idea that the state would sell itself down by the end of the day. For my own part, I also expect the state to leave the banks in the long term, because I did not see that it was a central government task to run commercial banks. As the situation has developed, I have to admit that I have changed my position in this way. It is necessary to ensure substantial national ownership of Norwegian banks that the country is its owner. The guarantee of national ownership seems to be that the country owned by at least one third. This is partly due to: amended concession laws, where there should be no rules that discriminate against non-resident owners. Furthermore, the situation is now that capital is moving across borders to a greater extent and in simpler ways. This has meant that national ownership does not have the same priority and attention from investors. I mean there are two questions that it is important to get answers to: Is it necessary to have a large Norwegian bank/financial institution with head office in Norway? Secondly, if the answer is ‘yes’, what must be done to secure such an institution for the future? I will answer yes to the first question. For a number of reasons, a large Norwegian financial institution headquartered in Norway is needed. It is necessary to take into account business and business developments. It is not the same whether the head office is in Norway, in England or in France when strategic decisions are to be made in relation to the industrial development of society. Business banks are far more active than other enterprises in creating a premise for economic development nationally. These are heavy arguments that need to be added to a lot of weight. I think there's a multiple in this room because we need a large Norwegian bank/financial institution with head office in Norway. When I put a little emphasis on this with the size, it's related to the fact that strategic decisions for industrial development in Norway, in relation to the largest Norwegian companies, also have to be taken by those who have the closest and best knowledge of business, that is. from the Norwegian Hald. Otherwise, of course, one can also ask whether the banks/financial institutions must be large. As I see it, we need both big and small financial institutions and banks. When we need the big ones, it's just a consideration of our biggest businesses and their international commitment – which the export companies represent. It is also a question of the cost competitiveness of the international market within which the financial industries operate. Among other things, technological developments in relation to data investment are required, which is an argument of size. At the same time, it would be very desirable for the normal user of the banking services at the personal level to have a shortage in relation to the size of the banks, so that competition could last well. In this context, I want to express it with a sentence: what we need is a lack of things and not simplicity. This is also noted by the majority of the financial committee, including the Commission. by what is expressed in a note depicting the development of niche banks as a very interesting area. I would also like to highlight what is said in the message on page 31, column 2: ‘The Norwegian market is small. There are, therefore, limits on how far you can go in allowing larger Norwegian institutions to merge, without being given a dominant market position, in total or in larger segments. An alternative if one thinks it's important with large institutions is to allow aggregation with foreign institutions. Since Norwegian institutions are small on an international scale, the head office of any such merged entity is likely to be added to the rest of the world.» The government had stated in the message that the state should hold at least one third of the ownership of both the credit fund and the Norwegian Bank, but at the same time open up to strategic alliances by limiting 10 pst. could be increased up to 25 pst. Through the management of the Committee, the Centre Party has come to understand with the Labour Party a number of key points which provide clear leadership to the Ministry. I see it as very important that the majority of the population now commits to developing a high-growth financial industry in Norway, built on Norwegian financial assets, and that it is realised by a state-owned part of one third of a large financial institution. The State shall collect the ownership interests of that unit, including: with a view to securing head office in Norway. I see a factual argument that one concentrates ownership in one rather than in two banks. With the developments we now have in finance, it can be required to sit with at least one third ownership of two institutions. When the government party receives support to extend the ownership restriction from 10 pst. until 25 pst., I'll be happy with the understanding we've come up with. It is also important to note that the majority clearly announces that a possible sale of the country’s axes in the Bank of Credit cannot be completed until such a Norwegian financial solution has been completed. That is to say, it's going to take some time, even if it's desirable that you don't see the structures of such a solution too long. There has been a point that these two banks in which the state owns should be treated equally. From my point of view, I would like to say that it is natural and right to have equal treatment when it relates to the state's role as a concession giver and as a regulator. But when it comes to the state that owns, you have to be able to see more flexibly how you manage these institutions. Concession policy shall focus on general requirements, soundness, level of competition, competence and equal treatment, and on how to protect and protect consumers’ interests.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e412	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e415	The chairperson of the Committee indicated that the Centre and the Workers' Party had agreed on this matter. But only a few days after we had cancelled the credit notification, one could read in today's business: «Minister of Finance Gudmund Restad gets a glimpse of Left's fiscal spokesman, Terje Johansen. Johansen believes that Restad is going too far when he no longer intends to reject a merger between DnB and the Kreditkassen.» Terje Johansen went on to say in the interview today's Business on December 3: ‘This may be entirely for Restad’s own account. The resort goes too far. We in the Left have kept to the fact that the government has said no to such a merger in the credit notification. That should hold. The left is in the government’s opinion.’ But now it turns out that the representative Terje Johansen has been involved in writing a note in the setting on page 13: ‘Between others on this background, the majority believe that structural policy guidelines should not exclude the merger of the two largest commercial banks.’ So my question to Lars Gunnar Lie is: Does the chairman of the committee agree with Terje Johansen in today's business life, or does the chairman of the committee agree with Terje Johansen in the vote? What are the views of the central parties in relation to the aggregation of DnB and the credit fund?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e437	With the President's permission, I would like to congratulate Trond Giske on the Geburtstag today! So to the line, of course, we're behind what's written in the setting, and I don't see any point in starting out how the different people express themselves about this that's now written. In the setting, we have actually said it in such a way that no guidance should be provided for any particular solution from the Size page. From the Storting side, we're going to draw up the general orientation lines, and then one has said that one can't rule out the review that this is about. Otherwise, I also ask that one note what has been said as a counter-argument to such a solution, where one refers to – as the case-speaker also mentioned in his article – that there are many arguments that speak against such a solution. And I'm not going into concrete solutions here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e446	No, maybe you shouldn't expect the center spokesman to be able to answer for what Left thinks, since it's always been difficult historically. It's probably said for jokes that there are three left-wing people present, there are at least four opinions. The unusual thing is that the same representative has two opinions – in the same case, at the same time. It must be noted as interesting even in the history of the Left. That's why I want to focus on what the representative Lars Gunnar Lie thinks, because it's actually almost as unclear. When the credit message was presented, many people were concerned that there was nothing in it. Then Lars Gunnar Lie pointed out that it did. He rejected the large merger that would prevent competition, i.e. a major merger between the two largest Norwegian commercial banks. I admit that just that point was reasonably clear. It was probably the ‘market situation of the day’, but, said the Ministry of Finance, very few people thought it was only the day the notification was delivered. For a few days afterwards, the Minister of Finance said that the situation is now different – i.e. in the market. So it was a day's observation. I am used to seeing the representative Lars Gunnar Lie so that he does not express himself on the basis of today's market situation, but expresses himself in principle – and that the principles extend beyond the closing time of the Stock Exchange that day. So my question is, what does the representative Lars Gunnar Lie think? Is he for such a major fusion, is he open to it, or is he against it? He's had the last position even in the fall.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e457	Once again, it's an attempt to get a statement about concrete solutions. I have said, and I insist, that this setting, and the recommendation in the setting, is general without considering any specific solutions. But it's just as Per-Kristian Foss said, from the government's side, they were clearly signaling that one didn't see it favourable with such a solution. And in the setting – which the case spokesman also did well for – we have underlined that there are many negative arguments against such a solution. But if we're going to reset this and say that now we're going to see what the development is, we're going to give nothing but a general signal from the Stortinget's side, we can't go into the concrete solution and the concreteness that the representative Foss now wanted me to go into.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e462	The representative, Lie, said that you should not be taking the lead from Stortinget. Then I am very interested to know what the representative Lie thinks Stortinget should do. If the Storting is not going to lead, not have concrete opinions, not have visions or views in which direction the Norwegian financial industry is going to go, what are we going to do? He says what to do is to express yourself in general terms. Yes, is it general turns without content, or is it general turns that point in one direction? This is becoming more and more unclear, I think, and I would like for the representative Lie to be able to give some more clear signals about what the centre wants with the Norwegian financial industry, because we still have the advantage of getting clarity on that. Then the representative said that he would not emancipate what was said by the various government parties. I can understand that, because it's not easy to keep track of what the different parties think from day to day. But does the representative Lie agree that it should be possible to demand, as a minimum, that what has been written together in a common position should also become a common perception of where to go? If it's the case that three government parties give different signals about what you really think you've been involved in entering into a majority opinion about, then it doesn't help to clean up a very unclear situation. It contributes to more confusion and more chaos. I would like to ask that Lars Gunnar Lie now from this pulpit can be ready, because this is what several of us are wondering.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e469	Yeah, it's a challenge to be smart. What I've said is, I don't want to go into concrete solutions, who might or might not merge in the context that this is about. But what we're saying, and that's clear, is that we need a strong Norwegian unit. There shall be head offices and head offices in Norway. To get it done, and to make sure that there is something that lasts, we want the state to sit with at least one third of the ownership of this unit. And when it comes to the concession assessment itself, the emphasis must be on soundness, competitiveness and competence, and the interests of users, of course, are taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e478	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e481	I would like to say last line change: I understand that the representative Lars Gunnar Lie is now saying that there is no concrete position on concrete solutions. Everyone has seen that. But the question that has been asked several times is, Why did he do it in November, when he cordially joined the Government's rejection of a concrete merger? It's basically why the principles are so very temporal and market-dominated, which is the question I want to ask a government that comes to power with the following reason: You had to throw a labor party government because it was allowed to rule too much of the market, and then you would have to deal with the market forces. That's probably what makes politics have a problem for the time being – so much snooping on their heads. The government gets on well and hurt nothing through what was said in the credit statement. The government's suggestion of a more active representation of the government and the indications of instructions to government directors are clearly rejected by a majority consisting of the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Right. I'm glad. Such an active representation could place the Governing Board representatives in very difficult balancing situations, where outdated instructions from the Ministry of Finance in a given situation could be contrary to the Bank’s own interests. I would like to challenge the Minister of Finance to explain how a state-appointed member of the board would relate to the specific loan request that is now referred to as a historical case, i.e. not a potential situation, but a case that has been publicly discussed, namely Smoke's loan request to the Norwegian Bank. Since the Ministry of Finance believes that such active ownership should be possible, I challenge the Minister of Finance to comment on this now. It would be interesting to see if it's at all possible. I think it would be very, very harmful. The government is also actually getting a rejection of its concrete position to say no to a so-called major merger between the two Norwegian commercial banks. From the rejection of this, the Minister of Finance has evolved in a very elegant and flexible way to be ‘open for all’, as it stated in a headline in Today’s Business on 2 December. And it's covering for what's in the rest of the article. Whether it is adequate for the government's view, I do not know, but it is clearly sufficient for the finance minister's point of view. Here, there are all the possibilities to choose between visions also in the Government. The government's desire to hold at least one third ownership in both the two remaining commercial banks, contrary to what was done in Focus Bank, for example, is also rejected by a majority. I'm glad it's a step in the right direction. Norway is part of a global economy, as it stands in the setting by several parties. There is a rapid development of the financial structure worldwide, especially in Europe. It is a result of both globalisation, economic and monetary union and technological development. The last one might be one of the strongest drives. Nevertheless, in many ways Norway is untypical, especially if it is seen in relation to other Nordic countries, where there has been a rather dramatic change in the banking structure. This has not been done in Norway in the same way. Norwegian banking institutions have been introverted in recent years. While other Nordic banks have seen the Nordic as their home market, even though they are Swedish, Danish or Finnish, Norwegian banks have largely ceased their Nordic involvement and have returned home. Mergers have concerned the Norwegian market. Some of the reason for this may be in the banks themselves, which is in state ownership. My argument for this is not a classic political claim because we are skeptical of or opposed to private ownership, but we find evidence of this in the Smith Committee, the Stortinge's own committee of inquiry into the banking crisis, which points out that state ownership has hindered natural structural development in the Norwegian financial industry. Now it's enough time to turn your gaze around. And I think the biggest challenges for Norwegian finance industry are not in the classic political discussion about national ownership, but about surviving in an increasingly tougher international competition – turning around and not just losing money in Stockholm, Copenhagen or Helsinki, but making money. The bank that now talks most about international ambitions is also the bank that has lost most on its international exposures. It's a challenge to prove that this is history and is not the story that repeats itself. Therefore, I am careful to have ambitions on behalf of the banks. I think an idea of mergers can be both good and bad, but a prerequisite for it to be assessed at all is that it is commercially justified, and not hatched out of a political compromise, horse-trading in wholesale committees or in any other way. I do not know of any commercially interesting banking merger that is the result of a Norwegian public investigation or an expert commission. I think we can safely say that. If you want to refer to the Board of Directors of the State Bank Investment Fund and its administrative management as a commission or a business body – I'm probably in doubt about that, to be honest. The fundamental question that has been raised in the debate is whether state ownership is needed in Norway. To that I would actually say: in the foreseeable future, yes. But the goal must be to get ever less of it. Why I answer yes, lies in the way in which we have organised our popular pension – purely state-owned, strong capital formation is ensured on the part of the state. It is also in the way we have arranged our framework conditions. I disagree with much of what has happened, but it is a fact that it is easier to survive as a Wallenberg in Sweden than in Norway, and it is easier to establish new financial institutions in Sweden than in Norway. The most recent company established with Norwegian involvement, the damage company If – which is a cooperation between three Scandinavian companies, established in Stockholm – could not have been established in Norway with Norwegian rules. So there are crocodile tears some politicians cry when they say it's sad that companies have to move out, because we're sending them out, we're sending them to Sweden. That is the reality. So here you have to look at the framework conditions. I am aware that this is being worked on. The problem is that framework conditions are always adjusted according to market needs, many years after, and we are never in the forefront. This is one of the reasons why we sometimes lose in Norway in Nordic competition. In relation to this position, and the specific banking and financial industries, what distinguishes Right from the position of the majority? Some of it. Firstly, we point out that the objective is that the state should completely out of state ownership of the financial industry. It's possible, and it's desirable. However, there should be a step forward in the remaining financial institution, which ensures a stable ownership structure and perhaps also in the long term the possibility of having head offices in Norway. But here I think you should be very careful to speak up absolutely for any future. I also see it as an advantage that an institution has a connection with Norway. But at the same time, I see it as an advantage that we have a strong feature in Norway of foreign ownership and foreign financial institutions. They contribute to diversity. A little bit of experience from the banking crisis was that the credit ratings might be a little bit too similar, a little too monotonous, when they all evolve on Aker Brygge or in nearby cultures. The fact that some credit ratings take place in savings banks, others in commercial banks, some in foreign commercial banks, with strong representation in Norway and knowledge of Norway, I think in the long run will actually benefit the soundness of the industry as a whole, in other words also for credit ratings. The main difference is that we say that there is no reason to wait for ourselves, the state has control of the ownership of the Norwegian Bank. They are still holding 60 pst after the Postbank merger. Or around there. Then there is no reason not to say yes to the credit fund, which through its governing bodies has wanted to enter a Nordic alliance. We do not take a stand for any offer, but if that offer is accepted by the owners, we should let the state follow up on the sale there. The majority have designed the political strangeness of waiting for something else that you do not know exactly what to do, but it must be concentrated on the Norwegian Bank, where you can take care of a mere number of owners. It is difficult to understand this other than as an manoeuvre to perhaps make it a little easier for a majority of the parties on this Greatness to turn around at their unfortunate national meeting decisions – unfortunate in that they were not long enough. Bonding state ownership to the banks you put in for any future has now proved to be a crazy way of formulating. In fact, keeping up with market needs is also a way of ensuring that Norwegian institutions have development and change opportunities in an ever-changing market. Many have said that much has happened in the Norwegian banking market in recent years, and the case rapporteur had a useful review of it. The most challenging thing is maybe we haven't seen the beginning of this. Bank will in the future be something more than today, maybe something other than today, and we'll see a completely different kind of institutions, I think, in a not too distant future. It is also a challenge for politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e507	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e510	The working party is to have a state ownership of financial institutions to preserve national ownership. Need that state ownership, ask Per-Christian Foss, and answer yes. So the Right is a long step further this year, and is thinking about how to keep the national ownership -- one needs a state ownership now. My question to the representative Per-Christian Foss is: In a line change earlier, Børge Burnde was involved in a major merger between DnB and Storebrand. Per-Kristian Foss has also discussed this earlier; he says that the state has control. But Storebrand is a private company. Does he not have any form of apathy as to the fact that there is someone who thinks anything in Storebrand, or shall a sit in Stortinget say how one wants it from Right's side? Should a person not be a little audacious about the fact that here are the different actors who may also have strong opinions about their company? My second question is on the Right's proposal to sell the axans in the credit fund. What kind of concession management should it be if the size tells you now to sell these axes? What kind of basis does the Size have to do with it? Is it not Right anymore that a concession management operation is left to the Government to do?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e524	Although it might be interesting, there's nothing radically new in what I said about the Right View of State ownership. The degree of this has always been in the Right's view, and it is only extreme liberals who believe that one can walk overnight from one to another – as well as liquidating something that has been a Norwegian tradition for a long time. We as an oil nation have a lot of capital building on the hands of the state, but we have to use this in a way that creates a better market in the long term. Many demand more and more Norwegian capitalists – why are there not enough private owners in Norway to stand up and own what we want to own, and what we can see in the future? The answer to that is that you yourself have made conditions that do not make it possible, and the state is such a dominant owner that it must be included, but should increasingly be included. The right has expressed no wish for a DnB-Storebrand merger contrary to the wishes of the owners. It was funny to be accused of being too lowly humble in relation to the market of the representative of Frøiland, but one should hear a lot in this debate, so we just have to be prepared. I even believe in one of today's newspapers that what those in the governing bodies of these financial institutions should do now, of course, is to take an initiative on their own — not sit and wait for Mr. Hopland, or Norwegian public investigations, or new political horse dealers, but take an initiative and try to be creative and create commercially interesting ideas for cooperation, for cross-border mergers, across performance, but ideas that mean that banks and financial institutions are getting better and can offer customers something better, not just take market shares apart, but create something that is forward-looking both on the capital management and on the distribution side, i.e. in relation to new technical solutions, the Internet, card offers, etc. to the broad and large market. Norwegian banks can improve in both areas, with economies of scale either through cooperation or through mergers. There was one question I did not answer, but I will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e531	I record that many countries, including the Nordic countries, are very busy securing head office functions and national ownership for their financial institutions. In the Christian People's Party, we are also concerned about ensuring that our country has a strong financial industry, which can claim both international and ten domestic interests and needs. And we believe that this can best be ensured by a certain state ownership. Now I have read and listen to what comes out from the Right side, and I feel a certain need for clarification when it comes to this with state ownership. The representative Foss said something like government ownership prevents natural structural development. Furthermore, a right-wing committee comment states that they want a strong Norwegian ownership environment, but it is best guaranteed by competitive framework conditions and not by state ownership. It might have been interesting to get some of the shades in this. In the right, then, strong Norwegian ownership environment, but not state ownership. I would then like to ask how far this goes, and how principle it is, because I also perceive the representative Foss so that he opens up a certain state ownership. If it is not possible to secure head office functions in Norway and a national ownership can be maintained without a state ownership, does it not seem that the Right would rather lose both the head office function and a state ownership? Is it so that Right sees state ownership as a useful traveler in some situations? Is it possible to get some of these shades out?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e542	First, to the representative of Frøiland's question in the previous line, which I did not get a response to, on what kind of concessional treatment the Right adds when we say that the state can sell its shares in the credit fund now. No, it has nothing to do with concession treatment at all. It has to go its way in the usual way. We write that in the setting, and it's a signal that the state should be able to sell itself down, and try it out, in the credit fund. So that's the same signal that the majority is giving, but they're saying wait a minute. And then you have a lot of strange formulations that it's going to happen in a little bit of a long time, a little short time, not too much time, but we're now saying it's going to happen, there's no reason to wait. It also brings me to the answer to Mr Sørfonn's question, namely how natural structural development is hindered by state ownership. You have a perfect example of that now. So the credit fund has wanted to go in, and has long investigated its own structure with the employees of the bank and with its owners, and has agreed on a priority of desired solutions. The desired solution is now so far hindered as a result of the fact that the State has not been able to answer either yes or no to sell. That's an example. I'm not saying that the bid that was there represented the optimal one, perhaps it wasn't what was finally chosen either, but the bank has chosen to go Nordic to strengthen itself in competition with its biggest competitors, the savings banks and the largest Norwegian commercial bank. But that solution is so far hindered by state ownership and decision-making in the political system. You can hardly find anything like that in any other country, and there are also many who wonder how politically driven large parts of the Norwegian stock market have been, and you talk about a political premium, and it's not a premium that gives the owners greater returns, rather on the contrary, it gives the owners smaller values, including the state, the society that owns. And here you should think about. It is not new that the Right is talking about the state still having to sit in as a big owner in some places. We've talked about e.g. a partial privatisation of Statoil, in which the State must sit there for a while.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e551	I believe the representative Foss is right that we have only seen the beginning of the major upheavals or changes that come within the Norwegian banking and financial industry. If you just think about the history of what we're discussing here today, the situation was that a Swedish-Finnish bank filed a bid on a Norwegian bank, which was initially not for sale, and it has done the big structural changes it's now opening up in the credit notification. It's interesting what Per-Kristian Foss says, that in this way a state ownership can at least represent predictability for a period, because, as Foss said, it's just extreme liberals who want to sell out overnight. I guess that was a sensible point of view. What the Right wants is that the Bank of Credit joins with MeritaNordbanken or another bank in a Nordic solution, and then you want a big Norwegian solution, supposedly with state capital in a transitional phase. I allow myself to ask the representative Foss about the following: if e.g. Deutsche Bank submits a bid for the newly merged, so-called large Norwegian unit, where there is a state holding, how will Mr. Foss stands to it? The point is that this is a commercial player, who sees that here there is a large and interesting bank, who probably makes relatively good money in Norway as well and perhaps in a larger market. Then there's a giant, because no matter how we merge the Norwegian banking and financial industry, it'll be tiny in a big international context. And what the state ownership is the guarantor of is that it actually brings ring-effects to Norwegian businesses and Norwegian consumers, for which they are primarily set to serve. But as long as only a random bid is able to change an entire structure, in this case for the credit fund and for the Right, it means in the next round: why should the market take solemnly that the state has a ownership that you manage, and believes is long-term? And my challenge to Mr. Foss is: does that mean that only a large international player comes and lays the money table and says that we buy the rest of the shares in the Norwegian unit, is Foss willing to sell?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e560	This became very hypothetical, then. But at least I see it like this, and I would like to quote my good adviser on several occasions, Professor Victor D. Norman, who wrote in Today's Business the other day: ‘Suggesting that the State is the only Norwegian major capitalist, Norwegian financial institutions will have difficulties in asserting themselves in international competition if they do not have access to State risk capital.’ I think that's a sober observation, which I agree with, subject to doing something about the framework conditions. But you don't do that overnight, neither. The state is a major capitalist and will have to play a role. But the problem is that the market doesn't know what the state wants. So if the state now decides that it will be inside an institution, at least it's a signal that might have a certain degree of permanence, even though I don't have the ambition that the representative Thorbjørn Jagland expressed to the press after the Central Government of the Workers' Party had presented its document, namely that we are now going to lay down a structure that is solid. It's an ambition I think is over, if you mean by that beyond this magnification period. There will be major changes here. My reason for saying that the State must also be able to provide capital is that the Norwegian banks, the Norwegian financial institution, which receives the State on its side, should use this to expand in commercially interesting areas, even beyond its borders. That's the ambition we're putting into this, and I hope more people will do it, because what we've seen is that Danish banks do it, Finnish banks do it – we've talked about it on several occasions – and Swedish banks go into Europe too fully. If a Norwegian large bank is to survive with the euro zone, contact with the euro area must be there.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e572	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e575	The 1998 Credit Communication provides a good overview of the State's ownership, supervision and structural development of the financial market, the activities of Norway Bank, the Banking Authority, the State Bank Investment Fund, etc. I would especially like to stop at four things in the message. The primary debt of the Government is its proposal to exercise the State ownership with greater interest and commitment by enabling the State that owns through the Bank Investment Fund to nominate representatives of the Board of Directors of the banks in which it owns. In the opinion of the Centre Party, this is a means of vitalising ownership by introducing competent candidates to the Governing Board who have the weight and experience of being active in the governing bodies, and thus helping the Bank to make the right strategic choices for sound and sober banking, and which of course should be business-driven. This means that the State should not interfere in the day-to-day operation or set back-reporting requirements. It would say, in short, to be aware of the ownership role one has in the operation, as all strategic financial owners are otherwise. Secondly, the setting clarifies the role of the Stortinget in drawing up general guidelines for structural policy and the role of the State as the owner of the financial market. First, I want to make it clear that it is very important for us as a nation to develop a financial industry based on Norwegian financial assets. In this respect, there may be a need to assess the framework conditions for Norwegian financial institutions in relation to other countries. Furthermore, financial institutions in the niche market that are important for Norwegian industry and with its head office in Norway must be given conditions for expansion and growth. In my opinion, the various players in the financial market, and in particular those on the basis of the Norwegian financial assets, should aim more towards ensuring long-term national ownership and such secure head office functions in Norway. National ownership is more than its responsibility. However, the State, through its ownership, shall specifically contribute to it by owning at least one third of the axans in a strong Norwegian financial solution. One of these devices must exist. get conditions and opportunities for further development in Norway and the Nordic countries. From this point of view, it is the Central Party's view that the Government is now given the task of helping to bring together the state ownership in such a financial solution, and that one does not consider the sale of the state's axes in the two largest equity banks until one has seen which Norwegian solution can be established. When it comes to concession policy, the Center Party believes that it must focus on soundness and adequate competition. This can achieve policy objectives of competing supply to customers, coverage of districts by being available, strengthening the level of service through increased competence and rational production, and thus provide the basis for developing a high-growth industry. Furthermore, as a starting point, the concession policy should not close down for specific structural solutions or close down for Nordic or international cooperation options where a foreign owner is something larger than it could be under current legislation. From this point of view, the Centre Party applies an extension of the owner bounding rule from 10 pst to 25 pst. Fourthly, when it comes to the Social Security Fund, the Centre Party believes that it should consider whether the fund should be able to invest in non-listed Norwegian companies. It is important to emphasise that the Folketry Fund should have a high level of competence in the Norwegian market both for listed Norwegian and for listed foreign companies. This competence also applies to certificates of basic funds and debt securities. It is the view of the Centre Party that the division of labour established by the fact that the management of the petroleum fund should have the best competence in investment and placement abroad, and that the Folketry Fund should have the corresponding competence in the Norwegian market, should continue. In that respect, there is reason to consider opening up the Folketing Fund to invest in non-listed Norwegian companies’ axles.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e607	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e610	The representative Holte spoke extensively about how important it is to ensure national ownership of the financial industry. I fully agree with Mr Holte. That is why I am pleased that in a joint remark we have underlined that we are going to have a Norwegian solution that does not weaken national ownership and that it is an important goal. We believe that national ownership is important not only in the financial industry but also in the business world. One way to do it is to have state ownership or partnership, which we have, for example. in Statoil and Hydro. Another way is to facilitate private Norwegian investors who look long-term and enter the private business with capital. But a third way to do this could be to create private and public investment funds together. It is a proposal that the Labour Party has made and that could contribute to a stronger national ownership also in the rest of the economy. The Center Party has so far been reprehensible. My question to the representative Holte is: why is the Central Party so reprehensible for such an action? This could lead to a strengthened national ownership and increased access to capital for private business, and we could avoid the many issues that result in the state sitting like heilies with all the different hats you get. The next question is: What alternative does the representative Holte have in order to safeguard the objectives of national ownership in the rest of the economy when he rejects the Workers' Party's proposal for such investment funds?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e619	As I said in my post, more than one state is responsible for securing national ownership. In fact, more than the State of a mixed economy should feel a responsibility for risk capital and that incentives for ignition have been provided so that there is a basis for holding capital with a view to the necessary investment. When Trond Giske asks if we can now facilitate a company in addition to all the ones we have otherwise, based on state ownership – I also understand that there should be something private in this – I will show that we have already established instruments through the State Food and Rural Development Fund, through the SIVA and through the Swedish Social Security Fund. Significant institutions have been established that can be instruments both to ensure ownership and also to secure the necessary capital through low risk loans or other investment loans. That's my approach. And if there is a strong interest in the state through fiscal policy e.g. shall strengthen these, it is not difficult to get the center to secure what is needed by means of cork in SND, SIVA or other institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e626	I feel that I did not get an answer to my question from the representative Holte. It's good that we have SND, and it's good and good that we have SIVA, but that's not really exactly what we thought a government/private investment fund, which we have suggested, should fill the role. SND and SIVA are working well in their areas, and if the representative Holte believes that they should be further strengthened, we should certainly be able to take a discussion about it. My question is why the Center Party rejects proposals to go in and create large investment funds – which may like to have a majority of private, 51 pst. private and 49 pst. Stately – which can contribute to long-term capital for Norwegian companies that want to grow and perhaps also to invest internationally, Nordic, European or what do I know. Those proposals have been rejected by Jørgen Holte and his party. And then my question is: does Jørgen Holte think that there is enough national ownership, since this is uninteresting for the Center Party? Or does he think that SND and SIVA can solve the problems that these investment funds were going to solve? I disagree with such a conclusion that SND and SIVA can solve those problems, and I ask again the reason why you go against it, whether you think that there is enough national ownership, or whether you have other good suggestions on how to solve it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e636	I expect that the representative Trond Giske in this context refers to is the comment that the Workers' Party has in the setting of the credit notification, where one links a hall of state ownership of credit institutions to that or that. When the Center Party and the other center parties were not involved, we thought it was not right at this point, when we've even said not to sell out axes, to give clear guidance as to what funds should be used for. In this setting, I have not registered that the Labour Party and Trond Giske have put forward concrete proposals on the matter that Trond Giske is dealing with. I repeat that if one thinks that the business community is not given the necessary capital through the arrangements that are established, the Central Party is forbidden to strengthen them. We must then first of all decide whether the business life we expect to be well-functioning does not get the necessary capital, and then we must be willing to set up through the arrangements to which the Storting through financial policy permits.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e645	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e648	I am in the somewhat strange situation that I am the only one here in the Chamber today who supports the original attitude of the Council of State towards the Storting, and it is certainly nice for the Council of State to have some friends, if not among the parties he himself represents. But it is also becoming increasingly unclear what the Council of State actually means; whether he believes what he initially presented to the Stortinget. What has been very unusual about this case – which is basically the credit notification, an annual notice to Stortinget – is that a bid from a Swedish-Finnish bank at a bank that was initially not for sale has brought about the major structural changes that we are now facing. It has turned all the way down on what Stortinget said one year ago that it wanted to be structured in the Norwegian banking market. And if you think about just a few years back, you'll see that the long-term, so-called state ownership has completely changed character. Some years ago, it was important to have three business banking environments in Norway. It was even important to have one outside Oslo, which was then Focus Bank in Trondheim. Then Focus Bank was privatized, the state sold its shares, and Focus, which was very buying-in, was eventually bought up by the Danish Bank. So now we've got a head office outside Oslo, and that head office is in Copenhagen, with the result that all of the loans over 20 million. kr, which is now approved by Focus Bank, must be approved in Copenhagen. For farming facilities and storage facilities and industrial installations along the entire Norwegian coast, this means that applications for loans in excess of 20 mills. kr must be sent to Copenhagen for approval. Two years ago, it was important that we had two business banking environments in Norway, the Kreditkassen and DnB. They no longer cared that the focus was not there, but it was an important point for the competition, it was said, in the Norwegian banking market that we had two players. Now it's not so terribly important anymore either, now it's really important that we have one, if you're going to think that there's something long-term in that decision the Stortinget is going to do later today. I think such a lack of long-termity for the financial industry is a significant handicap. It must be a point to manage state ownership in the long term. Now I don't think the structure has been laid for the banking industry or the financial industry in Norway for many years to come, but at the same time a bid on a random bank can't completely change the structure. Storing and government and other authorities need to have a little bit more ice in their stomachs and a little bit more willy about what they actually own than getting blown over the end as soon as a small bank manager blows. SV does not want the State to sell its bank shares now. For several reasons, we want to think carefully before going to such a step. Let me mention some of them. The first is competition in banking. We've seen in the last few years that banks have a growth psyche, you want to be big at any price without necessarily leading to better relationships for the usual consumer and banker. All statistics show that there are the largest units that also have the highest fees and the most expensive services, so for a long time most of us, who do not need master loans or are business-driven, there will be more than enough without them. Here ownership is important in order to maintain control and also to maintain competition. And I have to say that I am very skeptical of the thoughts that you are now making of a dominant Norwegian financial institution, which in this way in many important areas of the financial industry will be totally dominant, not least in life insurance. It is also obvious that the concession policy pursued by the authorities is not sufficient, so that the concession policy too will fall as soon as any market operator or small bank manager comes with something. The second reason why we don't want to sell the state's bank shares now is the ambitions to have with Norwegian banks, and if it's obvious that Norwegian banks need to expand and become as large as many other banks. It is well possible that we need internationally oriented banks – perhaps we do – but the question is whether Norway is a small nation, also a small nation in international financial context, should have the ambition to have banks that are significant in the European context. I am very uncertain whether that is the role of the Norwegian financial industry. That bank managers and insurance managers like to see that we have it, I don't doubt for a moment, but we have the opportunity through ownership to say that maybe that's not the most reasonable thing. Perhaps you should try to get your living in such a way that it is Norwegian companies and Norwegian consumers that are the main concerns of Norwegian banks. The third reason why we don't want to sell now is the uncertainty created around the head office function and the development possibilities that the bank has in the country to serve. The banking industry creates significant ring-effects for society around it, not only in the form of loans and credits, but also in the purchase of services and by developing skills. We have seen this very well in connection with the major changes that are taking place in the banking industry now, and not least in relation to the Internet bank, which says that you can sit at home and do all of your banking services on the PC. This is probably one of the biggest growth industries in the banking industry related to the ordinary consumer, which we've only seen so far the beginning of. The point is that if you don't have the head office function and the glory to come, a lot of the skills will be built abroad. It will be very unfortunate for the entire Norwegian business. Nor do we believe that the Norwegian banking industry should be static in this way. That means that we have also given our consent to what is stated in the credit statement that we should open up to changes in the ownership control rule. The fourth point is that we believe that it is not important to sell the state’s bank shares now because the state is not in a liquidity crisis, and that this has been – and is – a sensible money placement for the state. Had the situation been such that the Norwegian state was bankrupt, and thus had to realise some of its values in order to invest in other important sectors, there would of course have been a cause for it. But the Norwegian state is not in such a situation. On the contrary, the Norwegian state is rich. We don't need that money. In the event of a sale, the money will go into the oil fund. This will mean that we use state influence in ownership of banks and sell ourselves out there to place the money in an oil fund on foreign stock exchanges, where we are not going to have any influence. In addition, the bank shares have also been a sensible money placement. It gives an annual return to the state, which is also not to be despised by the Storting. The fifth reason is that SV is concerned with the signal effect that it gives that the state is willing to sell immediately. That effect is probably also one of the most serious, because it means that it is possible for market players, not even significant market players, to blow up the entire Norwegian structural policy discussion and decision-making at the end just to make a bid. In its ultimate consequence, it means that no international actors need to take the Norwegian Storing and the Norwegian Government seriously. If you put enough money on the table, you're willing to sell for a price. We've now seen that in this case. But there may be many other businesses in which the country also owns. I very much disagree with what has been said by several speakers here, that the state that owns has not contributed to the rational development of the financial industry. On the contrary, I believe that the state has contributed to the fact that there has been some dampening, and that this has not resulted in the major changes that we have seen in many other countries. Some probably use the stock exchange value for success, so there's no reason to say that the Norwegian banks have actually also been a success after the state came in. It also worries me when we see that it should be possible for a small bank like MeritaNordbanken to blow this over the end. After today's discussion and decision, we may be left with a desire to build up a large financial unit, which will be located in Norway, but with state capital in the share capital. It worries me very much when I see how easy it is to get the opportunity to buy banks that are not for sale. How will it go with the larger units, which in international terms is still a small deposit, if a larger bank – choose an American, select a German, select an English, choose a French – come and say: This was an interesting bank, we'd like to sniff a little. So what the Biggest thing contributes to, by what we're doing today, is that the decisions have no long-term outlook. It's not that they should have long-term into eternity, but there must be some degree of predictability and long-termity. If we are left with a state holding in only one financial institution, I fear that in a given situation of collapse and government, it will be opportune to say, "Well, it has to go, too." Then we're in the situation that we don't have state commercial banks with head offices in Norway. It doesn't have to go like this. I sincerely hope that this is not going to happen, but it is a nearby scenario when you see how the development of the Norwegian financial and banking industry has been over the last year. I think it is important to perform that function in Norway. All of this points in the direction that we should have thought better than what we've done. SV has a proposal that we should be informed about long-term challenges for Norwegian banking, precisely because international competition affects us. We do not want the Norwegian banking and financial industry to be static, but at the same time we want the state ownership to be the buffer it is in terms of long-term and predictability.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e687	Perhaps the representative shall address the proposal referred to therein?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e690	It's with pleasure I'm addressing the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e695	Then Øystein Djupedal has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e698	Globalisation in the financial industry presents us with new, big and different challenges. International capital and the global economy are now threatening to flush across their borders and tear Norwegian financial institutions away, so that money spending Norway risks being left with only branches and miss out on the cluster or cluster effects created by the environment around Norway-based activities. The central parties have therefore joined forces with the Workers' Party in order to ensure long-term national ownership of the financial industry. Therefore, the Left will retain one third of state ownership in one strong Norwegian financial unit. Therefore, the Left wants the State to pool its interests in one financial institution. The comments of the Centre Parties and the Workers' Party are an attempt to set targets for what politicians can and should influence, without going too far in telling the industry's people how to do the job. I consider the joint comments as an attempt to limit a state responsibility for the interests of the community to the fine balance point where private ownership provides an efficient market with good use of resources. This has Left's experience with this whole hundred years. That's how it started, and it fits well to end that way. Left capitalism is a governance compromise where politicians respect democratic and ethical values and where the market provides efficiency – or to say so with a writer in the newspaper on 1 December: ‘Only a strong and active country in an open, market-based economy operates’.» What writer was that? Well, it was Erik Solheim of SV, the party where only the first letter is left by socialism. The Government of the Left agreed this weekend to the agreement between the Centre and the Workers' Party. We have always been strong spokespersons in order for public ownership to be justified on the basis of policy objectives, objectives that cannot be expected to be met by purely commercial interests. Such considerations are particularly evident in the management of national resources and in the control of natural monopolies, even unnatural monopolies for that matter. I will come back to this fight against monopoly formations. Furthermore, the Left is critical that the State sits on all sides of the same table – as owner, as concessionaire and as verifier. It may be a democratic problem when the State owns and carries on normal business activities. Through ownership, the state can be linked to particular industrial interests, too strong a concentration of power can be created, and the ability to think can be weakened altogether. Therefore, state ownership always requires a special justification, as is now the case in order to ensure a Norwegian financial industry. Just as little as the Left accepts raw capitalism, we accept just as little the superpowerary state. Too much of one means political intervention, from the left's point of view. When raw capitalism threatens the interests of the community, the Left will compensate with more political direction – and vice versa. As a concessionaire, the State shall pursue some policy objectives, which are mentioned in the comments of the Centre Parties and the Workers' Party. First of all, we want to ensure the soundness of depositors and borrowers. We're using the Credit Authority for this. We want to ensure competition, to the delight of ordinary consumers, depositors like borrowers, and for business, small businesses and the large groups. I'll also get back to it. We want to ensure accessibility and a good offer to all of Norway, to all regions – in short, take care of the interests of District Norway. As the rapporteur for the merger DnB/Postbanken, I believe that we did so in that operation. That merger was only SV who opposed it. These policy objectives are the majority in this Chamber. So that's just reason for enthusiasm from my side. I was pleased that the central parties and the Workers' Party apparently agreed on the big lines, and that we have kept away from the temptations to tell the actors who will merge with who. It is up to industry players to decide for themselves. But what worries me, and the left, is what lies lurking outside or behind and partly within these seemingly clear objectives. We are concerned that some people are so strong in their defense of the national that they tip over into nationalism. When we in the Left agree to a strong Norwegian financial unit, it doesn't necessarily mean a big unit. There is no historical evidence that ‘large’ means the same as good and competitive in the Norwegian financial world. What we in the Left fear, and what we intend to fight, as we have done throughout history, are power concentrations and monopolies. And we are deeply concerned about the attempts to exploit the national responsibility that lies in the agreement, to create power concentrations in the Norwegian capital market, power concentrations that are contrary to the political objectives I have set out, and for which there is a majority. Therefore, the Left has clearly stated from all sides that we are opposed to a merger between the DnB and the Bank of Credit. I must confess that I am particularly concerned about what the Workers' Party has in mind with its more or less comprehensible signals. When the Head of Credit Authority suggests that supervision is not likely to be opposed, for example: a merger between the DnB and the Bank of Credit is to the extent justified – if you think only of soundness, which is his responsibility. But the idea of such a concentration of power is not just irresponsible for democratic reasons; it is also contrary to all the political objectives the majority has agreed on. Everyone will suffer harm – ordinary consumers, business customers, employees, districts, even cities. That industry analysts greet such a merger with joy is also understandable. They look at the rationalization possibilities; that's essentially the number of people who become redundant. The analysts believe that this is an advantage for the shareholders, which is also, in isolation, correct, but these considerations must not go beyond the overall political objectives we have set ourselves in this communication. That is why I am also concerned about how the Bank Investment Fund manages the mission it is given to investigate how the State should act to meet the objectives we set ourselves in this room. In this case, we, the Norwegian Storing, must not primarily be concerned with maximizing the value of our ownership in the two Norwegian major banks in the short term. The Norwegian aggregate should be primarily concerned with safeguarding the interests of the Community. The wholeness and the long-term development of the Norwegian financial industry is our responsibility. This should be noted by the investigators of the Bank Investment Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e745	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e748	It is interesting to hear the representative Johansen first say that he is happy that the Storting does not go into what concrete solutions to be the result of this, and then use his entire article to tell us what solutions he does not want. I record that the National Board meeting of the Left has said no to a merger of the DnB and the Bank of Credit. I also register that the government invited Stortinget to say no to a merger of DnB and the Kreditkassen. However, I also note that the centre and the Workers' Party do not agree with that conclusion, but on the contrary we believe that the structural policy guidelines should not exclude the merger of the two largest commercial banks. Then we can read in the Newspaper from yesterday, where Terje Johansen disagrees with the big crowd, which will keep the possibilities for such a merger open: ‘I would like to reserve myself against the comment that a merger of DnB and the Credit Fund should not be excluded’, says Left’s fiscal spokesman, Terje Johansen. Further: "This comment has been made without my knowledge," he says. Johansen has been away from Stortinget for the past few weeks because of iceberg problems.’ I have all the sympathy for Johansen for the Ishia problems, but it can't be that because Terje Johansen is away from Stortinget for two weeks, the agreements and comments made by the Left in relation to the credit notification are no longer valid. So my question to Terje Johansen is, is it that he still believes that the conclusion is that DnB and the credit fund cannot be merged, that it is excluded? And where is this reservation then expressed by the representative Johansen?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e767	Terje Johansen's reservation is expressed from this pulpit, and I repeat what I said in my post, that a merger between DnB and the Kreditskassen is contrary to all the political objectives we were together about in the notes. I'd like to repeat them, so that it's very radiantly clear why: First, we don't want this kind of concentration of power.Second, we don't want this for district purposes.Third, we don't want it for competition reasons, i.e. Fourth, we do not want it for the sake of employees, because it is clear that this means a large-scale rationalisation of jobs. That is the view of the Left in this matter. And then I'm shaved enough -- everyone should understand in the situation I'm in -- to admit that this incursion is due to my absence.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e788	It is possible that I did not understand everything that was said, but first the representative Johansen introduced that the government of the left had given its support to this comment, and now I understood that Terje Johansen took a distance from it because he had been gone. But there's no problem for us in this matter what Terje Johansen thinks, because there's a broad majority that has gone into these comments, which I expect all the centers join. But I now felt that the representative Terje Johansen was running concession management here. What we have said in this note is that the guidelines should not exclude constellations or mergers, but a concession management is the government that should do in relation to the concession management guidelines. When it comes to soundness, competition and all these aspects, it is quite normal for one to obtain assessments from the Competition Authority, the Credit Authority and consumer organisations. So if there's someone who's tipping over here and running concession management from this pulpit, it has to be Left's representative. I want to ask what makes him nervous when it comes to the Workers' Party's comments. We don't have any comments here that we're not in the middle of when it's both direction lines and concessional management.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e795	Let me say it this way: the government governance and ownership in this context involves, is a restriction of the cadastral parcel within which private market interests are allowed to move freely, and we have then shut down some fence posts to keep DnB and the credit box apart, in the left. The position of the left does not have to be the big problem for this hall. Rather on the contrary, we have – if not as the only – at least made clear what we mean. What I think is the problem for this room, is: what does the Workers' Party really want? Frøiland doesn't understand the Left. I have great problems understanding in which direction the Workers' Party will go. That's the biggest problem for this hall, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e800	Johansen is quite right that there is no doubt about what the Left believes in this case, because it says in the setting on page 13. It states that the majority – including the Left – believes that ‘the structural policy guidelines should not exclude the merger of the two largest commercial banks’. That's what the Left believes. Then it's probably true that the representative Johansen is standing here on the pulpit and certainly means something quite different than what is in this majority remark from the Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party. Now it's not that serious in itself – I'm going to give the representative Johansen the right idea that it might not be so interesting what the representative Johansen thinks. What's interesting is that there's a majority comment here that clearly says that the fence posts that Terje Johansen is talking about should not be put in such a way that a merger of DnB and the credit box is excluded. So we'll see what happens after this credit notification is processed, and what happens to the actors, if it comes, for example. a bid on the credit fund from DnB. Then it has to be treated. Terje Johansen has now gone a long way in dealing with this matter already here, he has been involved in district policy, on the employees, on the competitive situation, etc., so the concession treatment is in full swing here – probably not from the Left Party, but from the representative Johansen. My question to the representative Johansen is whether he is finished with this matter, or whether the Left Party is done with it, because in today's Business Friday, December 3rd, the Left Spokesman says that he: ‘requires that the government interprets the credit notification as a whole. It must be included in the government if that is what Restad says’. What Restad has said is that he does not intend to add up any guidelines that reject a merger of the DnB and the Bank of Credit. If the Minister of Finance is to follow up on the rise position as it is written by the Left Party, the Left Party will take a rematch in the Government, Johansen is to be understood correctly in today's Business. It would have been very nice if Johansen could find out a little about it from Stortingen's pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e812	The observations of the majority set out a number of policy objectives while stressing that a merger or merger of the DnB and the Credit Fund aimed only at rationalisation gains is not desirable or topical. I find it hard to understand that the problem here is the opinion of the Left. I have not only made clear from this pulpit what the Left believes, I have also referred to what the Government of the Left has said on the same matter. We are the only party that has dealt with this matter so thoroughly. I repeat that what is the problem for the Norwegian Storing is to know what the Workers' Party wants. There's a lot of talk about state ownership, a lot of talk about government governance, but you rule out absolutely nothing. The left does not want all the fences to be demolished, and we have set up one fence. I expect the government, if they want anything other than what they originally wrote, to take it up in the government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e817	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e820	The challenge facing Stortinget is to combine a government ownership policy for the financial industry, which takes into account both the dependence of Norway on foreign capital and markets, and at the same time takes care of our need for a significant part of the Norwegian financial system on Norwegian hands. Norway is completely dependent on foreign capital and on being a participant in the global economy. Therefore, we must not pursue a ownership policy that scares away foreign capital. At the same time, we need to ensure that we have a heavy Norwegian financial oath that has its head office in Norway. Important strategic decisions will normally be related to the head office. The proximity between the management functions of the bank and Norwegian customer relationships will be of great importance for individuals, and not least small and medium-sized enterprises, which have little international financial markets as a real alternative. For business customers, Norwegian head offices are particularly important in economic downtimes, as we know that restrictions on lending have to be implemented. The Workers' Party's view is that the country's role in the financial industry must be primarily to safeguard national ownership. In order to cope with this, we believe it is necessary for the State to pool its interests in one financial institution, that the State holds at least 1/3 of its shares and that the State acts as an active owner, so that it does not interfere with, but favours, the financial industry with which it owns. The Labour Party believes that it is necessary to create one strong Norwegian-led entity that does not blow away in the sheer winds of globalisation. On the contrary, it must be able to go abroad. This applies to banks as to companies that they need to expand to secure their business at home. In the Nordic region, the largest banks and insurance companies have moved from defining their own home country to including the Nordic countries as their domestic market. Norwegian banks must also be able to do so. Without action by the state, the Norwegian financial environment may be confused. Therefore, we believe it is wrong to sell state shares in the banks before we have one heavy Norwegian-owned institution in place. The Minister of Finance has said that this will take time. It must then be remembered that there are many market players who have a clear understanding of what they want. Therefore, the Minister of Finance should not spend much time setting up a forward-looking solution. I would like to comment on the position of the Right and the Progressive Party. It bears the mark of the old state terrors of these parties. Therefore, they also handle the interests of the State in an odd way. The right-hand side of the show said yes to the bid from MeritaNordbank about the same minute as it was presented. Which private owner had acted that way? If you are going to sell something, you should at least make sure that the sales price is the highest possible, and do not jump on the first and best bid you get. Secondly, you should consider the effect of a sale on other businesses where you have holdings. The goal of the Right Party and the Advance Party is obviously to get rid of the country's ownership, cost what it will cost. Therefore, they immediately said yes to the offer from MeritaNordbanken without having to assess the price, and without considering what effect this would have on the Norwegian Bank, where the State is the main owner. This is not the way to manage Community ownership. I also think it is remarkable that these parties have much greater fear of state than large parts of the private business now has. Many business people see the need for a partnership between public and private capital to meet the challenges facing Norway in the global economy. Norway is so lucky that the state has capital. Why should it not be used to safeguard Norwegian interests? I am therefore pleased that there is a large majority in the Storting that will do so, including in the financial industry.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e837	The government promoted 29 October this year Credit Notice 1998, St.meld. No 11 for 1999-2000. The credit notification is now to a greater extent than in the past a document dealing with relevant issues on the financial market. As in the last year's communication, the Government is also discussing this year the guidelines for structural policy in the financial market. The Government considers that the guidelines drawn up in the Credit Communication 1997 and supported by a large majority in the autumn of 1998 during the deliberations provide a good basis for policy action in the future. However, the Government proposes some changes to the guidelines to facilitate the further development of a competitive Norwegian financial industry. Concession policy will continue to place high emphasis on competitiveness and soundness. Furthermore, there will be emphasis on the existence of solid and competitive institutions and groupings with regional anchors in this country. I would like to stress that the Government attaches great importance to the fact that the exercise of ownership of the banks is clearly separate from the State's role as regulator and concession authority. This has been ensured through the design of the legal framework for both the Credit Authority and the Staten Bankvejensfund. That's still the way it has to be. The international trend towards larger entities and increased cross-border competition will have much to say for the future competitive situation. This has been an important starting point for the discussion in the 1998 Credit Communication. I would point out that most developed countries have central financial institutions with national ownership. The government believes that in Norway, too, it is an objective to ensure Norwegian ownership of sufficient amounts to ensure central financial institutions with head offices in this country. The state is the only one that can ensure this, as we cannot oblige other investors to maintain their ownership. I am pleased that the majority of the Financial Committee agrees with the Government's view that it is important to ensure long-term national ownership of the financial industry in order to secure head office in Norway. I have noticed that the majority are in favour of the state helping to establish a strong Norwegian financial market solution, so that national ownership is not weakened. I have noticed that the Financial Committee in its position stresses that the task of the Storting is to draw up the general guidelines for structural policy on the financial market and the role of the State as owner. In line with this, the majority of the Committee has not given concrete guidance on solutions, for example: in the case of the two commercial banks in which the State holds large holdings. The majority of the Committee considers that the State must pool its interests in a unit and thus safeguard its national ownership by owning at least one third of its shares. The majority also states that any sale of shares in the Credit Bank cannot be carried out until one has seen what kind of Norwegian solution can be established. I have also noticed that a joint committee considers that the future concession policy must be based on a soundness of mind and competitive considerations and must not initially exclude certain structural solutions or the closures of Nordic/international cooperation options where a foreign shareholder share is slightly greater than in current legislation. It is further stated by the majority that the Government should give priority to the work of state ownership in a strong Norwegian financial solution. I intend during this week to give a mandate to the State Bank Investment Fund to start work in line with the guidelines drawn up by the Financial Committee or its majority. In addition to this, there will be no special political guidance on what kind of solution to come up with. The task of the Fund will be to provide a good professional basis for assessing how best to respond to the views expressed by the majority of the population. This is a very important matter with large economic dimensions. It would therefore not be appropriate to impose a time pressure on the work which could weaken the possibilities for achieving the best solutions. I will therefore not set a specific deadline for completion of the work. However, I assume that the Bank Investment Fund does not spend unnecessarily long time, but does the task as quickly as thorough and sound work permits. It is essential to focus on finding solutions that provide the basis for the establishment and further development of a competitive and robust business strategy, given the development of the financial market, inter alia. as regards technology, industry and increased international integration. I have also noticed that the Committee asks that the framework conditions for Norwegian financial institutions be assessed. In this context, I would like to refer to the Banking Act Commission, which is going through Norwegian financial legislation, and to the so-called Competition Board, which is investigating the competition surfaces of Norwegian financial institutions in relation to foreign institutions. Both of these samples will be submitted with options next year, followed up by the Ministry of Finance in relation to the Storting. The government stated in the credit statement that there are arguments that argue that the State that owns should nominate representatives of the board of directors of DnB and the credit fund. I would like to stress, as also mentioned in the comments of the government parties in the suspension, that the State should not, of course, interfere with the daily operation, or make demands for reporting back. I take note that the majority of the committee is in favour of the Government's proposal. This means that the existing guidelines will continue to be used. The Government wants to open cooperation agreements and strategic alliances between Norwegian financial institutions and between Norwegian and foreign financial institutions. In Ot.prp. No 9 for 1999-2000, therefore, proposed amendments to the Financial Activities Act that would allow for derogations from the general rule of 10 p.m. limitation of ownership. Strategic cooperation agreements provide for ownership interests of up to 25 p.m. An example of strategic cooperation may be combined partnership and extensive commercial cooperation. Strategic cooperation could be combined with both unilateral and mutual ownership. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee endorses the proposed changes to the rules on ownership. The credit notification also provides an overview of developments in the financial market in the previous year and of the activities of central government institutions in this field. In this context, I have noticed that the majority of the Committee asks the Government to assess whether the Folketing Fund should be allowed to invest in non-listed Norwegian companies. The Ministry of Finance is currently working on this issue together with the Swedish Social Security Fund. The government will therefore come back with a detailed explanation of this issue to the Stortinget in the revised national budget 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e877	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e880	When MeritaNordbanken – it was probably on 20 September – submitted its bids for all the shares in the Credit Fund, the Minister of Finance immediately after, more specifically the following day, expressed the lack of need to assess the guidelines underlying the Norwegian financial industry. That's how he was perceived in statements in September of today's business. When it became clear to the Minister of Finance that a majority on the Stortinget looked at it differently, the Minister of Finance told the Stortinget to come to Stockholm with assessments in the credit notification. The assessments contained in the credit notification represented, in our opinion, the status quo, with the exception of perhaps a special exception in the ownership restriction rule, which is the new measure. When the decision is now made by the Finance Committee, and it is a fact that the Workers' Party has had an impact on our perception of this matter and is receiving changes in guidelines, the Minister of Finance says that a lot has happened lately. A lot has happened lately that makes it necessary to apply for such changes. Now, the Minister of Finance would like to be commended for his flexibility in this matter, but it might be interesting for Stortinget to also hear what the Minister of Finance thinks has changed in the last two and a half months, which has also led the Minister of Finance to look at the need to change guidelines differently.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e887	It doesn't match the reality, what Hill-Marta Solberg started with, that the day after MeritaNordbank made its bid on the credit card, I should have stated that there was no need to evaluate the guidelines. On the other hand, I was out already the same day, in fact only an hour after the offer was made, and told them that this would be very problematic, because this offer is contrary to Storting's guidelines. There is no Norwegian bank for sale – I did not use those words – but there was no bank for sale according to the guidelines laid down by Stortinget. So Hill-Marta Solberg believes that when the government first came up with its views and outlined the future guidelines in the credit notification, it was the status quo. It wasn't. In fact, a lot is happening, and it is happening quickly in this sector. Nevertheless, it is not so much and so fast that all that Stortinget agreed to a year ago was completely devoid and useless. So what we pointed to was that a lot of what was guidelines drawn up a year ago, was still valid and well usable for the future structure as well. But the government opened up new opportunities. We had large openings for both national larger units, and for international units. We made a proposal from the Banking Act Commission to facilitate strategic cooperation agreements, and to allow for an anomaly, an exception, from the general 10 pst. the ownership restriction rule and open for up to 25 pst. holdings in such cases. So I don't think it's fair to accuse the government of just introducing a status quo in the credit statement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e894	On several occasions during this debate, it has been said by the majority of the population that the government has now received a clear marshall. Then I would like to hear the Minister of Finance's assessment of what kind of marshes he thinks he has got from the bulk of the population – what these so-called new structural policies from the centre and the Workers' Party mean, and how the Government and the Minister of Finance have intended to attack this. Secondly, on several occasions — at least the party groups — enquiries have also been received from Storebrand and, in particular, from other insurance companies, who have repeatedly pointed out that if the strange framework conditions are not changed, they will have to move out parts of their business. It was ignored, and then some of the businesses moved out. The last example of this is the establishment of the new Nordic non-life insurance company If, which has its head office location in Sweden and could not have had its head office location in Norway due to the special Norwegian legislation. Does the Minister of Finance agree that there is now a need to make this kind of change so that we do not stand in the way of natural establishment in Norway? And further, does the Minister of Finance agree that it is soon time to harmonise the Norwegian – and strange – legislation, so that we get it in line with the countries with which our financial institutions compete? Or does the Minister of Finance think that the rules applicable to Norwegian institutions are good enough and do not need to be changed?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e902	I will first be allowed to praise the majority of the population because they have done what is the job of Storting, namely to draw up guidelines and not to draw the map of how the future structure should be, as other parties have fallen into temptation to do. I fully agree, as it is also underlined by the majority of the population, that it is the job of Stortingen, and that has been done by Stortingen. That is why there is no possible solution that is reasonably excluded, including what the Government did not signal to the extent – the possibility of an association, merger, between the two commercial banks. Then ask Siv Jensen how I will now attack or follow up on this marshy soil that I have got from the massif. I prepared that in my post. I will now, during this week – hopefully not quite at the end of the week – give an investigative mission to the Bank Investment Fund, which is, of course, those who manage the state's ownership of the two commercial banks. Then I won't send any political signals about what I want back in response. I want them to give us their professional assessment of how best to meet the guidelines drawn up by the majority of the population, namely to bring together the state's interests in one, institution – a powerful institution. Then there are issues of harmonisation of the legislation. At the request of Stortinget, we have put down a sample, the so-called "Competition Surface Selection", which is now making its assessment. It was to give its cancellation on 1 February, after the deadline it was given. Things indicate that the selection might need some more time. But when that time comes, and we get an attitude, it will of course be followed up and presented to the Storting in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e911	In response to a reply from the representative Hill-Marta Solberg, the Minister of Finance says that he has not stated that he did not need to change the guidelines. I would recommend the Minister of Finance to go back and see his own statements. They fell so, and they were perceived as, that the Government would take no initiative to change the guidelines. If, however, the government had always intended to take an initiative to change the guidelines, no matter what the majority of the population had spoken through the press and the media, it is interesting to know now, because in that case it must have been a well-kept and secret plan that has not been expressed at any time. Then I want to ask the Minister of Finance a question. When the credit statement says that according to today's market situation, it was not considered appropriate to authorise a merger of the DnB and the Bank of Credit, that was a position. And that's a position I think it makes a lot sense in fact, in terms of competition, consumer considerations, business considerations and more. However, when the Minister of Finance A month later he says he's basically open to everything, even what he didn't see as relevant to giving permission to a month earlier, then I ask the following question: What has changed in the market at this time? It would have been much more real to say, as the Minister of Finance said on the first question, about directly appointed government representatives, that there was defeat, one is probably voted down by the majority of the Stortinge. It's an honest thing. But trying to use the changes in the market situation in one month as a reason to change the view of such a crucial structural issue as a merger between the two largest remaining Norwegian commercial banks, I think I'm far from what I thought a Central Party finance minister would attach importance to the market.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e920	I insist that I gave no signal, either the same day or the day after Merita Nordbanken submitted a bid, that there was no need to change the guidelines. But I registered that several parties in Stortinget gave clear signals that they had left the position they had a year ago, namely that we had no bank for sale. They immediately jumped at the commandment that came. And then it was obvious that the government had to investigate: what does the bulk of the population actually mean? Then this was presented in the credit notification, and with the government's view of what it was supposed to be like for structural policy to look like. Then it is important to be clear how this alleged change in the view of the Minister of Finance arose. It was not that the Minister of Finance went to the media to tell us that there is now a completely different situation. But the situation was that I got an enquiry from a journalist out here in the hiking hall who had recorded that the majority of the population would not agree that at least the guidelines would close for a merger between the two largest banks, and that, he said, this, had to be contrary to what the government had presented in the credit notification. That's right, because in the credit notification the government said that with today's market situation it doesn't seem appropriate to allow the two largest commercial banks to be merged. So the journalist asked if this was a permanent, almost eternal position, and then I allowed myself to point out that it's happening so much and so fast on this sector, and I said, look what happened in the last year. Then the Danish Bank has purchased Focus, Genuine and Sparebanken NOR has formed the financial group, Storebrand has bought the Finansbanken, DnB and Postbanken have merged, and the Handelsbanken has bought the Bergensbanken. So I said that if you turn the other way and see a year in time, who is able to say how, for example. will the competitive situation be? Moreover, it was not close to the Minister of Finance to oppose what the majority actually said, that one should not exclude this possibility either, a merger between DnB and the Bank of Credit.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e927	The last line change here shows how difficult it is to be a minister in a minority government that has no strength or weight in the main hall to get through any of what you think is right. So here the bulk of the population is now going to change completely the structural policies that the Minister of Finance wanted and that the majority of the population had laid down last year, so it's clear that it's going to be difficult to be a Minister of Finance. Then you can do one of two: either you can choose to swallow the camels, or you can choose not to eat them. What the Minister of Finance here is that he chooses to eat them, both with his hair and with his head, and it has to be an exercise for him. Unlike most people here, I was satisfied with what was stated in the credit statement, because it was the same thing that the majority of people had said a year before. It is clear that a year in the finance industry is quite a long time, I realize that too, but at the same time I didn't see that there was any special reason, just because a small Swedish bank manager came flying over the fridge, that we were going to change the Norwegian structural policy. That's basically what I'm asking the Minister of Finance, and what I think is the most serious thing about what the Storting is doing today, that no decision has any durability, no long-term, in itself. I think that was wise said by the finance minister when he said we have no bank for sale. If he did not say so directly, he said that the Storting was of the opinion that the state's bank shares should remain on the state's hands. That was a correct statement at that time. That he believes something else today, now in fact gets to be so. What's the point, then, is that if it's going to be so that the bulk of the population can in any way only rule as it pleases, and make all decisions temporal, how does he think it's perceived in the big, serious markets outside the world that only one comes up with a bid, blows collapse and government and all over the world, completely without there being a spine to defend something that was thought to be right only a short time back? That's the long-term effect of the size currently in the process of doing. And my challenge to Restad is, is he, like me, worried about it?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e940	Yes, during my 12 years in the UK and then two years in the government, it has been frustrating that the guidelines for structural policy on the financial market have been constantly changed since the actors have more or less disregarded the guidelines that have actually been drawn up. The most recent thing happened when MeritaNordbank informed – I will assume – about what the guidelines were, submitted a bid to a bank that was not for sale. Of course, it's worrying if it turns out that only the actors are uptight enough and on-going, the politicians are looking for. Therefore, it is my strong wish that once politicians have set guidelines this time, it will be too long in the future that in a year or two we cannot risk having to address the question of whether there should not even be one strong financial institution with its head office in Norway. I hope that there are so clear signals that now is enough, that you don't intend to go any further on this problem. And then I think it might be a little early to figure out what's going to happen to the investigation that the Bank Investment Fund is going to do. At least I do not intend to guess what is going to be the final solution, because it may be perceived as a signal, and I do not want to enter such a signal, because the Bank Investment Fund now needs to be allowed, on a purely professional basis, to do its investigation and to advise on what they think is best suited to the guidelines of the bulk of the funds.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e947	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e950	Through the examination of the credit notification within the Financial Committee, a majority has been set up to help the State establish one strong Norwegian financial solution, so that national ownership is not impaired. The case shall be followed up by the fact that the country collects its interests in one unit and, furthermore, its involvement shall be confirmed by ownership of at least 1/3 of that institution. There should be no doubt that the bulk of the population gives a very clear signal that this is not intended in the short term but in the long term. What has become the majority's position is entirely in line with the Labour Party's position. Changes in the financial industry largely reflect developments towards globalisation and international mergers in the rest of business. No later than today, the Newspaper has a review of which Norwegian enterprises are or may be sold out of the country during the year, and the list is long – a whole of 22 enterprises. Both the financial industry itself and the State that owns must relate to this development. That's what the industry has done. Through acquisitions, mergers and mergers, banks have tried to obtain development opportunities. As a major owner of the two largest commercial banks, the state must also deal with the changes that become necessary and important in order for us to have a strong Norwegian financial industry. In the opinion of the Workers' Party, it was the biggest lack of credit when the Government presented it, that there were no thorough discussions about what this situation challenged state ownership. The basis for the agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties is based on our common view that state ownership is important in order to ensure long-term national ownership of the financial industry. It is crucial for Norwegian business that we have financial institutions with closeness and knowledge of Norwegian businesses. Only through national ownership can we ensure that the head office functions remain in Norway, that is where the most important strategic decisions are taken. The agreement between the government parties and the Workers' Party defines the structural policy guidelines, i.e.: the guidelines for the ownership and concession policy of financial institutions. The consensus does not provide specific solutions for individual institutions. It has been called here in Stortinget today, but I would like to stress once again that it is not the role of Stortinget to do so. Today’s Business Today, Right says that they should challenge – and so have they done in the debate, both they and the Progress Party – the Workers’ Party on what you really want to do. But I stress again that the Storting should not act both as the executive owner and as the concession authority. The role of the size is to set guidelines, and that is also what the size does. Therefore, the Workers' Party is pleased that the agreement between the government parties and the Workers' Party concerns guidelines and does not exclude concrete solutions for any individual institutions. For the right-hand parties, it is a clearly expressed objective that the State should sell itself out of the banks. So state ownership has to be liquidated. Rightly, there is a clear distinction between what the Right believes, and what the Progress Party believes, as the Right has today clearly said that it is a process that must go over time. But in any case, the setting confirms that there is a clear distinction between the Right Party and the Advance Party on the one hand and the Centre Parties and the Workers' Party on the other hand in terms of the view of state ownership also in the long term. Against this background, it is difficult to see that a majority other than the government parties and the Labour Party can unite on the country’s ownership strategy towards the financial industry in a long-term perspective. The Labour Party is very pleased that this majority is now making it possible for the State to concentrate its ownership in one strong Norwegian financial unit in the future, and that the State should be an owner of that institution, which also provides the Bank/Financial Institution with the development opportunities needed to develop further in the years to come, if necessary also by leaving the country. Today, through this majority, we ensure that in Norway, we will also have a financial institution with head office in Norway in the future – that is, we guarantee national ownership of the financial industry.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e971	The speakers who have the floor hereafter have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e974	Without unnecessarily extending the debate, I would just like to say that, through the debate, it is not exactly clear what the agreement between the Workers' Party and the government parties means, except for what I said, which is positive, that the ownership of one institution is now concentrated and not doubting two. I've always said that, and it's also been the Right View, and it's positive. The government has suffered defeat there, and that is good for the cause. But then for the reason that I took the floor: the representative Jagland made a post that was obviously written elsewhere than here in the hall. To put it this way, when you refer to my post as an expression of state terror, what I said is not entirely accurate, in fact, for what is in the setting either. If the representative Jagland reads the statement, he sees the Right saying that one can imagine that the State should hold the DnB shares for a while more, with the aim of ensuring a stable ownership structure and head office functions in Norway. If there's state terror, the concept is given a new content, because it was then wise under labor party governments some years ago, before the banking crisis, never talking about establishing state banking ownership directly. Whatever that is, you can just imagine. Then fear of the state is a mild word. It is well and good with good slogans, but they need to be adjusted somewhat according to the terrain and the form of the debate. It is also wrong when the representative, Jagland, said that the Right said yes to the offer. Did you say yes to the offerer? We have never said yes to any bid. We have stated that it is an interesting construction to establish a Nordic bank, but the bid, the price, whether you are going to exchange money, in shares or in combinations and at what price, we have never stated. It has been repeated in this debate – twice – while the representative Jagland was in the Chamber. The representative, Jagland, finally said that the right parties – I understand the Right is part of them – should sell, cost whatever it costs. Where in the world did he get it? Firstly, we have not stated the costs of the sale at all. But I guess he's here aiming for the profit of a sale. What would mean, then, that smelting with sales – and waiting – would only increase the price or profit? At least there's nothing so far that suggests it. But if Jagland has a secret time for when the price will be optimal, seen with a profit and profit items, it would be an interesting contribution. Many market analysts would certainly wait in suspense. So I haven't said anything about the price at all, but I have actually left it to those who are going to handle this. But at least we have given the clear guideline that there is no reason to wait for investigations and hesitate to actually fulfill the desire of the governing bodies of the credit fund – including members, as far as I understand, proposed by the government representatives in the board of directors, by the overall management and by the employees' unions – to allow the state, together with several owners now also to sell out of the credit fund.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e990	It was the same representative who also made me speak. The representative, Mr. Jagland, stood on this platform and spoke about the importance of managing the Community's resources in a responsible and tidy way, and he felt that the Right Party and the Advance Party did not exactly contribute to it. So he added that it had to be a prerequisite for selling bank shares that at least one was able to achieve the highest possible price. I fully agree with the representative Jagland in that, but in order to get a price on a bank, it must actually be for sale. So far, I have only seen two parties in this room who have clearly said that they are interested in selling the shares in the bank. It is actually such a sell signal that must be given by a majority, before it is appropriate to consider whether it is possible to achieve a better price than the bid actually available, on a bank that is not for sale, as the Minister of Finance said so nicely. So it has helped the Workers' Party itself, not knowing at any time as long as this offer has been, to be able to give a single clear and clear signal about where they want to be. When the representative Hill-Marta Solberg says that the Right Party and the Advance Party are not using their role properly in relation to what the Stortinget is going to do in terms of the credit notification, I strongly disagree with that. Initially, in the debate, Ranveig Frøiland said that the government had been disappointed with what had originally been included in the Credit Notice. There's evidence that we're sitting with a government that really won't rule that much. That means that the Storting must take that responsibility, and actually draw up clear, clear guidelines on where you want to go. Then the Workers' Party goes into partnership with the same parties that you criticize for not having any meaning, and makes a setting that doesn't turn into any of the world's things! It's not clear. It makes it even less clear, and I think it's more alarming. So to Jagland's concept of state terror. It is well possible that the Progress Party has a state terror, but no more than that we sent a written address to parliamentary leader Thorbjørn Jagland – who does not exactly represent a party with a state terror – and asked for talks to try to find solutions, subsidize such ones, so that a broad parliamentary basis could be ensured in the UK. That letter has never been answered! Then I think it is something arrogant of the same parliamentary leader to go up to this pulpit and accuse some parties of not wanting to consider long-term solutions. The representative himself has contributed to the fact that we do not get by not wanting to engage in dialogue with other parties in Stortinget. I think that's sad. Then it'll be a little easy to stand here and throw around in funny words – like state terror. I actually think it's good that some of us have so much fear of state that we can see what will be good in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e1003	In this debate some words have gone on again. One word that has been used at least once and for the most part by the representative, Siv Jensen – and also someone from the Right – has been on this pulpit, has been to characterise the majority position as unclear. The problem for the Progress Party and the Right in this debate is that there is no confusion but disagreement. The problem for the right-wing parties is that they do not form part of a majority, because they have a different view of how the government should act as owner of the financial industry. The fact is certain. In fact, it has also been stated from both parties – from both the Right and the Advance Party – that it is a long-term objective that the State should liquidate its ownership of the financial industry. It should not surprise the Progress Party that it does not fall naturally for the Workers' Party to look for majority solutions along with a party that has the opposite view of what the State actually has to do with its long-term ownership. I repeat what I said at the end of my post, that it is obvious that there is a clear distinction here in the Storting, and that is reflected in this matter. It is the Labour Party and the Centre Parties that have the most consistent view of why we need state ownership in the financial industry, and the aim of that is to ensure national ownership. The recipe of the Right Party and the Advance Party to ensure national ownership is based on good enough framework conditions, ensuring national ownership. Unfortunately, we do not have the same belief that there is any certainty that not all Norwegian banks will eventually end up abroad, i.e. sales of the head offices. The fact that we need to ensure this only through good enough framework conditions is a vision that the Labour Party does not share, either with the Right Party or with the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e1013	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e1021	There shall be a vote on the remaining items on the current map.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e1027	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Kenneth Svendsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, the Right, the Socialist Left Party and Mr Bastesen, on behalf of the meeting of Mr Odelstinget, on 30 November 1999: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and submit proposals for special deductions for exceptional maintenance costs arising from settlement’.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e1040	President! I couldn't vote. Can we do that again?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e1047	If no one disagrees that we take it back again, the president will do it. So we're going to vote again in case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e1061	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Kenneth Svendsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, the Right, the Socialist Left Party and Mr Bastesen, on behalf of the meeting of Mr Odelstinget, on 30 November 1999: ‘The Government asks the Government to review the situation of commuters where there is no alternative collective offer, with a view to a fairer regime’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e1077	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Kenneth Svendsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 30 November 1999: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that rules are laid down to reduce the Equation Fees for Housing, Leisure Houses and Business Properties etc. by 25 pst.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e1093	A vote is taken on the proposal by Mr Øystein Djupedal, on behalf of the Socialist Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 30 November 1999: ‘The Government requests the Government to promote a proposal with the necessary legislative proposals to repeal the special company tax scheme with effect from the 1999 income year’.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e1174	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, from Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The suggestions are first voted on and then over the setting. Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide a large-scale report on how the government will manage its ownership of the financial industry under changing international conditions. In particular, the Government is asked to assess how any sale of the State’s bank shares could affect the structure, competition and national anchoring of the financial industry.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e1197	Proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, says: ‘The decision asks the Government to sell the State’s shares in the Credit Fund as soon as possible.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07-2.ana.ud1797e1227	There is no record.
