ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e27	The President will make suggestions that a seat president of Odelstinget's meeting is elected today – and sees it as agreed. The President is asking for a proposal from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e32	I suggest Jørgen Holte.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e37	Jørgen Holte is the vice president. Other suggestions are not preceded, and Jørgen Holte is elected by consensus as the seat president of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e54	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for a sequence change of up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each group and five lines with replies from members of the Government. In addition, it is suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e65	A new law on mental health protection is a relatively rare event. The law of 17 August 1848 on Sindsyges Treatment and Forpläining, which became a hallmark of Norwegian social history because of its humane and modern principles, was based on a draft by the doctor Hermann Wedel Major. In many key respects, it also influenced the law on mental health protection of 28 April 1961. It is this last law that will be replaced by the new draft law, Ot.prp. No 11 for 1998-99. A clear difference from the law in force is that the new draft law is more detailed and imposes stricter requirements on documentation before use is made of coercion. Here, in my view, the draft law is far better than the current law, and helps to strengthen the general legal protection of people with mental disorders. This has to a small extent been highlighted by those who have criticised the new draft law, but should be included as the most positive side of the draft law in conjunction with the law in force. In the following, I would like to review the Committee's examination of the draft law with particular emphasis on divergent comments and proposals in conjunction with the proposal, including those proposed by SV to promote. The Ministry has proposed that the short version of the law name be the psychiatry law. Instead of referring to the law as a mental health protection law, a unanimous committee considers that the term is more comprehensive for all the personnel groups covered by the law than the term ‘psychiatry law’. The Committee's position has been on the first page, while on page 26 of the Committee's recommendation there has been an error in printing using the term 'psychiatry law' and I would like to ask for it to be corrected. § 3-5 of the Act deals with compulsory investigation. In the Ministry’s draft law, the patient is not entitled to appeal against a mandatory investigation decision. An overall committee considers that, in relation to the general patient rights, it is important that decisions on compulsory examination should also be subject to appeal, but that the complaint for the purposes of further investigation and treatment cannot have suspensive effect and promotes amendments to sections 3 to 5 in line with that. Paragraphs 6 to 2 of the Act deal with the composition of the Control Commission. An overall committee notes that an adverse situation may arise if many judges are chairmen of the control commissions at the same time as the same judges are required by the courts to review the decisions of the Commission. In the light of this, the Committee has proposed that the control committee be chaired by a lawyer qualified to act as a judge. The aim of the proposal is to have a much wider recruitment base among lawyers and lawyers for selection to the various control commissions. On the above three points, therefore, an overall committee has promoted amendments relating to the Ministry's draft legislation. The Committee also stresses collectively that patients with mental health disorders should be treated in the same way as other patients, as far as possible, and that it is only by coercion that the Law on Mental Health will be the general law on patient rights. I see it as a significant clarification and an important equalization of all patient groups, regardless of the underlying cause of the disease. There have been some significant objections from different teams to parts of the Ministry’s draft legislation. The first concerns § 1-4, which refers to the professional responsible for taking decisions. The draft law states that the professional responsible for taking decisions, as well as deciding on the measures specified by the law herein, is in agreement. However, the draft law also allows for regulations to be laid down as to who is the professionally responsible. This involves a change in relation to the applicable law. Despite the media's impression that sections 1 to 4 open up the possibility of a full equality of professional groups with regard to professional responsibility for decision-making, none of the Committee's members have proposed full equality. With regard to the text of the law itself, only the Party of Progress has proposed an amendment, in which they propose to delete the second paragraph, so that no opening may be given so that the non-supervisory party can be professionally responsible for the decision. The second most central point that has raised possible more debate is the Ministry’s proposal on compulsory mental health protection without prior admission to the institution. At that point, the draft law clearly distinguishes itself from the law in force, because the draft law allows for the use of coercion without having to be incorporated into the institution first. In the Ministry's comments on the draft law, there is confusion about the interpretation of the law at that point by the Ministry's expression: ‘He or she may then be supervised, treated and cared for at or near his or her place of residence.’ This may give the impression that the draft law opens up the use of coercion in the sick's dome. It is clear from the Ministry that the wording of this note derives from the original consultation note, but that the comment has also been included in the final draft law in the event of an incurrency. It should therefore be stressed here that the majority’s legislative proposals do not allow for the use of coercion in the sick’s home. A majority, consisting of the Workers’ Party and the Government Parties, supports the proposal that mandatory mental health protection can be provided outside institutions when there is a better alternative for the patient. This majority believes that there is a need for a flexible and diverse supply of mandatory mental health protection. The plural expression is: ‘The upgrading of the municipal health service and the development of the district policy centre will enhance the competences of the psychiatric community.’ I would assume that the majority here aims at the district psychiatric centers, since the use of political coercion outside institutions is hardly supported by the majority. The majority, consisting of the Workers' Party and the Government Parties, express in their general notes: ‘If the patient himself is of the opinion that an institutional stay would be the best, the wording of the law would have to be understood in such a way that institutional accommodation must be carried out at the same time as the establishment of the protection.’ I assume that the majority itself makes clear how this formulation is to be understood, since a person who is of the opinion that an institution's stay will be the best will be able to enter voluntarily and not by coercion, which is what is referred to here. The minority, consisting of the Progress Party, Right and SV, is moving towards the existing legislative proposals at this point. These batches will not allow for the use of coercion outside the municipalities without prior admission to the institution, but will continue the current system of restrictions on the use of non-institutional coercion to the compulsory mental retardation. In the view of the minority, non-institutional coercion could be a coercion without care that is difficult to control. Non-institutional coercive medication will also be an economically more reasonable alternative, and for this reason there will be a danger that not only the patient’s best interests are being taken into account in choosing this form of treatment. The minority supports the proposal that the law does not open up the use of non-institutional coercion. The minority, i.e. the Progress Party, Right and SV, also promotes amendments to § 1-3, as these parties do not consider it appropriate to be responsible for defence and aid. The same minority would like a change in section 4-4 of the draft law, which deals with treatment without their own consent. In the view of the minority, consent to an investigation or pre-force treatment shall always be sought and the three batches therefore promote an amendment in line with it. Another minority, consisting of Right and SV, points out that pre-reservations are given significant weight in physically ill. Although there may be fundamental differences in such a right of reservation between physical and mental disorders, it is not reasonable, in the view of the Right and the SV, to deprive people of the general right of participation relating to treatment measures only on the grounds of mental illness. The two lots therefore propose a supplement to § 4-4 which gives the sick a limited right of reservation against treatment, provided that the reservation was made at a time when the conditions for mandatory mental health protection could not be considered to be fulfilled. The minority proposals to which this is referred are addressed. Finally, let me say, over the 150 years that have passed, a law on mental health protection has now been passed for the third time. Many patients and patient organisations closely follow the decisions taken today because the law will directly apply to their daily lives. If we are to give the draft law a fair and dignified treatment, we must have the ability to live into the situation of all those who will subsequently be affected by our decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e133	Olav Gunnar Ballo has drawn up the proposals to which he referred. The representative Ballo has also made a mistake in setting this up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e138	In the spring of 1997, the Igland government presented a global report on the state of mental health protection that revealed major challenges in this area. Psychiatry had been neglected under changing governments for a number of years, and had suffered in part also under professional rivalry and strife. I would like to stress that there was a cross-political consensus in the Storting that it was necessary to take a force for people with mental disorders, and there was a broad consensus on the proposals in the Communication on the development of the service provision in the future. The Roadmap for Mental Health 1999-2006 was adopted by the Stortinget in 1998. During the 8-year plan period, investment is to be made at DKK 6.3 billion and operational expenditure is to be increased to a level that is actually DKK 4.6 billion above the expenditure level in 1998. The escalation of operating costs and investment costs means that approximately DKK 24 billion more will be spent on mental health protection during the planning period. The objective of the escalation plan is to address weaknesses at all stages of the treatment chain. The action plan includes a wide range of measures to address weaknesses: several daily places for children, young people and adults, 90 000 more days of stay at the district psychiatric centre and 220000 more outpatient treatments. There is a need for more private psychiatrists and psychologists with an operating contract, and many more new nursing homes for people with mental disorders. Strengthening psychosocial services, support services and cultural and recreational services for children and young people will be important. In addition, many more have to be offered employment measures and, not least, support to user and related organisations is needed. The Working Party believes that the user perspective must be central to the processing network. The goal must be that people with mental disorders achieve independence, independence and the ability to master their own lives. The Labour Party also believes that principles such as prevention, the greatest possible volunteering and the most normal life are essential in building up the services of mental health protection. The Labour Party will stress the importance of targeted efforts to improve attitudes to mental disorders and a holistic approach to strengthening treatment provision. With the escalation plan for mental health, Stortinget has provided the economic basis for increased efforts, and the Labour Party considers a new law as the necessary legal basis for monitoring the plan. In addition, the Government must provide educational and supervisory measures. The working party believes that patients and their needs must be at the forefront of mental health protection and that this must also be reflected in the law. The present legislative proposal is patient-oriented and involves strengthening legal certainty in the field of mental health protection. It is claimed from some quarters that the new law will lead to an increase in the use of force. The statement is not correct. In the new law on mental health protection, the principle of volunteering as far as possible is central. Furthermore, the actual coercive provisions are clearer than in the current law, with clearer limits for the regulation of coercion. From the Labour Party we are concerned that the use of coercion in Norwegian psychiatry is relatively often used. It must be an objective to be treated as much as possible on a voluntary basis. However, forced use is also a professional issue that needs to be decided by qualified professionals in each treatment situation. It would be irresponsible for politicians to take on the role of the handler. In the view of the Workers' Party, our task through the law is to create a framework that is feasible and provides the basis for necessary professional action. The Labour Party is therefore pleased that the Ministry will initiate a dialogue with the trade unions on the understanding of the content of the coercive rules, as well as monitor and evaluate whether the practices that develop are in line with the framework provided by the legislator today. The law provides for non-institutional coercive treatment. This does not mean that people have to be coerced into their homes. Such a home processing proposal was raised early in the process, but I am familiar with the fact that no batch supports this, nor is it part of the proposition or committee setting. In some situations, non-inpatient coercive treatment will be a better option for the patient than hospitalisation. If it is professionally sound, such treatment will avoid institutionalisation, as some patients also experience as very stressful. Here's the patient's best thing to do. As a result, the proposal is a contribution to normalising and creating transparency in mental health protection, which could mean less coercion and fewer high fences. I am convinced that it is early intervention, sufficiently well-developed offers and professionals with clear ethical attitudes that are the key prerequisites for reducing the use of coercion. With regard to professional responsibilities in the field of mental health protection, the primary position of the Workers' Party is that both a physician with approved speciality in psychiatry and a psychologist with approved speciality in clinical psychology may have professional responsibilities. That doctors without approved specialist training in psychiatry should have professional responsibilities, but not psychologist specialists, we find unreasonable. The professional responsibility must be held by a person with specialist competence in the field, whether a psychiatrist or a psychologist. The working party is satisfied with the majority position as it exists, with clarifications on the use of the derogation and of the individual responsibilities of the psychologists and their actual and absolutely necessary role in the field of mental health protection today. The Workers' Party is concerned that mental health protection in particular in the districts may be particularly vulnerable to the proposals of the minority, and the Workers' Party would stress that the escalation plan will require the full exploitation of all available academic competence in the country. Psychiatric health protection must be organised in such a way as to ensure the recruitment of professional personnel at all levels. Continuity and trust are also essential to reduce the use of coercion. For the Workers' Party, it is a main objective of the four health laws we deal with in Stortinget in ours, to eliminate unfortunate professional disputes and to strengthen the patient's position in the Norwegian health care system.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e172	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e175	The present legislative proposal provides for an extended use of non-institutional coercion. Paragraph 3-1 reads as follows: ‘Required mental health protection may also occur without a daily stay in an institution where this is a better option for the patient. Forced mental health protection can then be provided while the patient is on his own accommodation and can only include prescriptions to the patient for attendance for treatment.’ This is a change in relation to the current law, a change supported by the Workers' Party together with the government parties. This, in conjunction with the fact that the same majority will allow non-psychicians, namely psychologists, to decide on coercive measures, I believe that the patient’s legal certainty could be compromised. Does the representative Gunhild Eye and the Workers' Party have no objections to this, and is it not feared that this extended access to non-institutional proceedings could lead to a conviction in the Human Rights Court?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e185	I can assure the representative Alvheim that the Labour Party has carefully assessed the proposals that have come both from the Government and from the case-rapporteur on this matter. We've taken them seriously, and we've come to the conclusion that hospitalisation can also involve coercion, and that in some cases coercion can be done locally by collection, and in some cases it will also be better for the patient. Now I was in conversation with both a psychiatrist and a psychologist yesterday, and they came independently with some assessments that should be interesting also for the Progress Party. They talked about early intervention and how important it is that you have a basis for it, not least in order to avoid criminal acts such as criminal acts. murder, and they underlined the need to have such a basis to secure also society. We've said that here it's for the patient's best, but we can't try to insinuate in this debate that some form of coercion is necessary in the field of mental health protection. Now I can't see that the fact that psychologists have the top responsibility for a department leads to more coercion. I find that to be a very unreasonable claim. In my view, professional, professional and legal responsibilities can equally be borne out by an experienced psychologist or psychologist specialist.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e194	The opinion of the eye here is relatively alarming. Because when you first involve the groups that may then represent a danger to others — that is, her point here — you just open up in order to be able to stay in their municipalities and to have them in institutions to a lesser extent. I therefore think that the signal given here to the minority that security should not be guaranteed is quite on the side. That would be quite the opposite of the case, that you get more patients with serious mental health problems out in the municipalities, and so you don't guarantee treatment within an institution. But the question I wanted to ask to the Gunhild Eyepiece is in relation to the quote I made instead, about which the Workers' Party is associated with the government parties, and which is linked to the use of coercion against serious mentally ill people who are not considered able to take care of themselves or to assess what is best for themselves. It is therefore linked to this wording: ‘If the patient himself is of the opinion that an institutional stay would be the best, the wording of the law would have to be understood in such a way that institutional accommodation must be carried out at the same time as the establishment of the protection.’ I'd like to ask Gunhild Eyering to explain how the patients who will first be forced because they are unable to take care of themselves, in the next round will actually decide where that treatment is going to take place.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e206	The first question concerns early intervention. It has been claimed with great weight from a professional point of view that it can be very important when there is a change in a person's state of mind, that one has the opportunity to intervene at an early stage. Now, of course, it may look like a contrast — when a person resists treatment, he can't have any idea where anyone wants to live. But it could be that a person who has been admitted to an institution may have a feeling about whether he wants to go to an institution or whether he wants to be, for example, an institution. in its municipality of origin. There's a tendency, I feel, that one believes that being admitted to an institution does not imply that one might be subjected to coercion. I happen to have worked in such an institution, quite a few years ago, but what I registered was that at least it was forced – perhaps a little too much. So I think one has to include that it doesn't necessarily mean a reduced use of coercion. For many, living in their community will be an advantage. That's why it's also open to such an authority, that there should be a certain opportunity for it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e213	I have a strong feeling that the majority and the minority are talking past each other on the issue of coercion. The representative eye stressed that no one is too coercive. No, of course, neither inside nor outside the institution. But what she forgot was to ask the question why we have such a widespread use of coercion in Norway compared to most other countries. The answer to this is that we have a significant undercapacity in institutional health in this area that leads to the failure of a large number of patients who should have received a treatment offer at a long earlier stage, and they finally get an institution space when the condition has become so acute that it is necessary to intervene with coercion. This is obviously an evil circle, and it's reinforced by the fact that most people who are responsible for our psychiatric emergency departments say that their biggest headache is that they also have to print patients at a much earlier time than what is professionally sound. Does the representative of Eyeågen not see that there is a significant risk that the current opening of non-institutional coercive use can help to strengthen this problem even more? I don't doubt for a moment that the purpose is the best. But it is not the intention to decide whether legislation is sound or not. And there's a crucial qualitative difference between coercive use in circumstances where it's possible with full-time care for a patient in an institution, and coercive use of more or less momentary nature outside an institution. Does the representative Eyeågen not see the qualitative difference?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e226	I can agree with many of the views expressed by the representative, that the reason why there is a relatively high level of coercion in Norway is that there is a sub-capacity, that there is too little post-protection, and that people are being issued too quickly. And that's why the Stortinge has adopted a very comprehensive and ambitious escalation plan for mental health protection, so that the offers should be improved and people qualified to enter these tasks in a completely different way from today's. We have said with great force, and we still believe that for some patients the offer may be just as good locally, but it obviously requires that there are qualified personnel there. In my opinion, it is therefore important now to implement the action plan that has been adopted and to train the necessary personnel. And then, in order to meet those who have been in doubt about this, we have said that an independent professional community needs to carry out an evaluation to see how the new law is now being practiced. Our intention is clear: less coercion and more care should be used in the field of mental health protection.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e235	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e238	Initially, I would just like to say that this is a draft law that has been very comprehensive and, in my personal opinion, very difficult to intervene in. It is a type of case that requires thorough preparation both for those who have prepared the case and for those of us who have to make sure over a short period of time that the product presented to the Stortinget is of such a nature that it can be understood, while at the same time being consistent with what the individual party stands for and not least considers to be the best care for the patient's interests. This has been a laborious work, but I will be allowed to commend the case rapporteur for the way he has worked. This has meant that the Committee has always been able to do its job in the best possible way. Then to the law itself. The Party of Progress is not satisfied with the draft law in place. The Progress Party will claim on its behalf that the majority's proposal for a legislative text, together with the preliminary comments on the law of the Government, could lead to, inter alia. a. a greater and more extensive use of non-institutional coercion, although the Government and the majority of the Committee would claim otherwise. In the proposition, the following is written under Part IV, Notes to the individual provisions, page 154, to §3-1: ‘Other stages state that mandatory mental health protection can also take place without a daily stay in an institution where this appears to be a better option for the patient. He or she may then be given supervision, treatment and care at or near his or her place of residence.» The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, refers to a letter from the Council of State stating that the comment of the proposal is something that is left after an earlier draft consultation. Unfortunately, the party of progress is not satisfied with this explanation, and is of the opinion that the government should then promote this change through a proposition. Now this text remains in the proposition itself, and the Progress Party fears that this could lead to a misappropriation of coercive measures in the patient's bople, as a result of the law of comments being read in the first row, and not what individual parties write in their comments. The Party of Advancement will not be able to accept any form of mandatory mental health protection outside the institution, with the exception of compulsory mental retardation in immediate association with previous institutional residence. This can only include referrals to treatment, and the patient can be picked up if necessary. The party of progress is of the opinion that if a patient has come into such a situation that coercive treatment is necessary as a psychiatrist sees it, this is such a serious situation that this patient must be admitted to an institution, for the sake of both himself and his family. The Progress Party believes that any discharge from a psychiatric hospital should be subject to a contract signed by the hospital and patients. The contract shall include the necessary follow-up by the municipality of hospital, patient and residence. This must be done in order for the patient to feel confident that he is being followed up in a positive manner, while in the future the public undertakes to offer an offer to follow up the patient. The Progress Party will highlight the importance of a positive follow-up of the patient and the patient’s family after a possible outsourcing. The Progress Party will continue to argue that it is particularly important to put in place a central treatment system for the most extreme criminals and violent people suffering from mental illness. During the treatment of St.meld. No 25 for 1996-97, the Progress Party stated the following in Innst. S. No 258 for 1996-97: ‘The member of the Committee of the Progressive Party does not agree with the Government that the decentralised power departments are fully capable of caring for the treatment and care of the most extreme criminals and violent mentally ill.» The Progress Party then put forward the following proposals: ‘The Government is asking for detailed plans for the establishment of a nationwide specialised institution for the treatment and care of seriously dangerous people with mental disabilities and for dangerous and mental retarders.’ It is important, in the opinion of the Progress Party, to establish such an institution for, among other things. to be able to enforce this law and to be compulsorily enforced after judgment. The party of progress fears that coercion outside the institution may be used to a greater extent than is necessary, as a result of the lack of a good enough provision of treatment facilities in the institution. The Progress Party is particularly concerned that the rights of mentally retarded persons will not be adequately protected by this law, despite the fact that this is a group of patients with a very high need for special care and action. The progression party looks at psychiatric patients in the same way as somatic patients and will change § 1-1 so that psychiatric patients get a right to treatment included in the legal text. The Progress Party will propose in the Patient Rights Act that somatic patients be given such a right to treatment, and there is no need to discriminate between the different patient categories. Although a person suffers from a hidden disorder, he is equally fully a patient and must therefore be given a legal right to treatment. When you look at the amount of hearing bodies and the number of recordings that have been made in this case, it is wonder that you have noticed that with regard to the question of who should have the professional responsibility for making decisions, that is the point that has perhaps been discussed the most. It seems that this point has become a struggle between the Psychologists' association on the one hand and the Medical Association on the other about who is best suited to hold this role in mental health protection. It's not who should have the administrative responsibility that's important here, in the opinion of the Progress Party, but which profession is best able to take care of the very complex picture a psychiatric patient is. The Progress Party has a clear view that only a specialist in psychiatry can have the professional responsibility for decisions relating to psychiatric treatment. It's important to point out that a psychologist is not a trained doctor. The Party of Progress is convinced that the person responsible for taking the type of decision referred to in this paragraph of the Act must be a doctor. I dare remind you that when it comes to, among other things, coercive decisions are largely in the form of coercive medication. It's just games like per. medicines can be prescribed today. It has been claimed that even if it takes a doctor to print drugs, a psychologist has to be able to make the decision. This is something that I will strongly warn against, because it will always be the person who has prescribed the medication, who will be held responsible for this. This, in turn, could lead to unclear responsibilities in some departments and to the continuation of previous professional struggles. The Progress Party is clearly in its assessment and will not open up the professional responsibility for decision-making to other than psychiatrists. What I find very alarming is that the government parties in this setting actually go beyond what I can see that it is added to the proposition. The way in which the majority's remarks – from the members of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party – are put in place, equates psychologists far on the road with psychiatrists, as I read it. In my opinion, this could clearly lead to, for economic reasons in some county municipalities, an opening in order to facilitate the application of the professional responsibility of a psychologist for making decisions and thus avoid having to look for psychiatrists. This testifies to the fact that it is not always the patient who is in focus, but that these parties have given in to the demand of the Norwegian Psychologists' Association for the long term to be equal to the psychiatrists within this field. In conclusion, I would like to refer to something that the rapporteur said in his statement. He said that the Progress Party wanted only the superior to be responsible for making decisions. This is not right, because the Progress Party says in its proposal for a law that ‘the superior or other specialist in psychiatry’ can participate in the decision-making process, so that that misunderstanding is resolved. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that have been made by the Progress Party alone or with other parties and that have been put forward in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e285	The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e288	A year ago, the Stortinget adopted an obliging mental health escalation plan that gives hope for the future. With increased resources, good recruitment of qualified professionals and increased commitment to prevention work where the patient lives, the Christian People's Party believes that fewer people will need hospitalisation, at least that there will be fewer forced insertions. With close knowledge of the patients and their closest ones, the signal can be caught early and help given before the disease becomes more serious. The Christian People's Party shares the concern about the increase in forced admissions in recent years. It is bad when several of the hearings say that the pressure on the emergency departments has often resulted in forced insertion being routine and a pre-requisite to be admitted at all. We must put an end to this! Everyone today agrees that the goal is less coercive. All batches also agree to reinforce the criteria for coercive action. There should be a main criterion for serious mental illness – i.e. psychosis – and two additional criteria, one on reduced prospects for recovery or improvement and the other on the criterion of danger to the lives and health of one’s own or others. The lots also agree that one should not be coerced into the home. The majority, of whom the Christian People's Party is part, believe that in some cases mental health protection can happen without a daily stay in an institution, if this appears to be a better option for the patient. The patient can receive supervision, care and treatment in his/her community. The patient’s needs are essential for the choice of mandatory mental health protection. The patient may be compelled to attend treatment, possibly with the assistance of the public authority, as is currently done by coercion and forced after-care, and which the minority also believes should be possible in the future. The main difference is whether everyone necessarily has to go through the path of hospitals. Are the treatment measures always so active there? Most of the hearing bodies that are negative to the proposal have a short way to the hospital. But where distances are large, this is an essential element of treatment. Outpatient clinics and district psychiatric centres can only provide coercive treatment if they are able to provide adequate treatment and care professionally and materially. The Christian People's Party believes that this will lead to milder or more limited use of coercion, for the benefit of the patient. My hope is that the working groups will cooperate better and that treatment methods will be more transparent. The goal is less forced, and the Christian People's Party will evaluate the scheme. The Christian People's Party believes it is positive that the use of coercive and coercive medication, which was previously regulated in regulations, is now regulated so that patients can complain about use. For the Christian People's Party, it is also important that patients who have volunteered cannot be forced to move over. The Christian People's Party supports that the professional responsible for the decision is superior and that one in the regulation opens up the decision-making authority of clinical psychologists. One has good experience with this today, especially in child and youth psychiatry. A forced release is only relevant after prior medical examination. A psychiatrist may more easily rule out the symptoms from a somatic disorder. With regard to the additional criteria for coercive measures, I cannot see that one group has any advantage over the other. Studies show that no one can predict a particularly good risk of violence against their own or others. The law provides strictly defined coercive powers and better control procedures, right of appeal and transparency than before. Finally, I would like to clarify that if we are to succeed in the treatment, it must be based on respect and created relationships and trust, so that a preventer suffering and coercion becomes unnecessary. Force must always be an emergency solution! At the end of the day, I recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e320	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e323	The Christian People's Party has joined the Workers' Party and the Centre in a majority comment that, as at least the undersigned sees it, is the beginning of the equality of clinical psychologists and psychiatrists. For that is well understood when the following is stated in the setting: ‘The majority have noted that when it is proposed in the law that a regulatory exemption may be granted for professional liability to be a psychiatric superior, this is not only due to situations in which psychiatrists do not exist. This majority would point out that the derogation provides for the granting of decision-making powers to clinical psychologists.’;» I would like to ask the representative of the Christian People's Party of Government: who, in the opinion of this government party, is responsible for coercive medicine in such a situation? Is it the doctor who prints the medicine? Or is it a psychologist, if any, who is responsible for making decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e333	I want to repeat what I said instead, that we are in favour of the law opening up the law so that, exceptionally, there may be clinical psychologists who have the professional responsibility. The experience we have with clinical psychologists as leaders also shows good results. Very well - known, there have been no more complaints about treatment that a clinical psychologist has had the professional responsibility. When it comes to diagnosis in order to rule out the symptoms from a somatic disorder, as I said in my post, only psychiatrists can do it, and only doctors – psychiatrists – can do medicine. But if you have the management, that doesn't mean you have to have all the point skills yourself. It just has to make sure that always is available.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e340	A manifest misunderstanding, President!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e347	The President is a little uncertain about whether she will open up any open misunderstandings. But if Nesvik is sure that there is an open misunderstanding, he shall have the word.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e350	The misunderstanding must be obvious, because the question was who should be responsible for coercive medication in a situation where a psychologist is responsible for making the decision, while a doctor has to print the drugs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e356	The President does not consider it to be a manifest misunderstanding that the replicator is not satisfied with the answer given to him.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e359	Now it might have to be replicated in connection with the previous line exchange that it is § 1-4, not management in general, as Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund came to say in the end, but professional responsibility, and the Progress Party, SV and Right believes that it is important that there is a superior in psychiatry or medicine who has the professional responsibility. You can't mess this up with general management in these contexts. I noticed that Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund said something like that most hearing bodies that are negative to the extended use of coercion, including in the home environment, are close to the institutions. Where did she get that? Gunhild The eye said that many people want to live in their home environment, so we open forcibly there too. But it's not the patients and their organizations asking for this new opening. Neither are the trade unions. It is the states and the municipalities that ask for it, and then I think it is dangerously naive of the majority if they believe that this is primarily a measure that will benefit patients in today's situation. There is a great danger that there is a shortage of institutions that will make it cheaper, more appropriate, simpler for municipalities and for the counties to use coercion in their neighbourhoods. Patients know that they should first be forced — yes, control and care are better in institutions than in the community, because there are also more professionals there. Does not Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund agree that if you first take the majority’s starting point – yes, would it be natural to wait to extend the scope of enforcement until the escalation plan was completed and the capacity at the desired level?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e368	I share the concern of the representative Annelise Höegh regarding shortages in institutional places. That's why we've had a stepping-up plan, like, among other things. should lead to more than one treatment site. So the trade unions: Of the hearing bodies I've read opinions from, the trade unions around the eastern region are the most negative. The trade environments in the districts have been the most positive to the proposal promoted by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e375	I want to begin by clarifying another obvious misunderstanding. It's not like the longer you get from the psychiatric hospitals, the more positive you are to use coercion in the municipalities. In Finnmark, we don't have a psychiatric hospital at all. I would like to ask Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund about two issues. One concerns the use of enforcement control commissions in municipalities. One might imagine that a control commission has at least a relatively more transparent task in assessing the use of coercion within an institution. But how does the majority think here that a control commission should be able to control the use of force in the municipalities in practice? I would like an answer on how you intend to organise it. The second is a question that I asked to the Gunhild Eyepiece, and that I could not see that I got an answer to at all, but since the government parties form a majority with the Workers' Party, I will ask the same question to Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund: how is the following wording, which I read instead, and which I repeat now, to understand? ‘If the patient himself is of the opinion that an institution's stay will be the best, the wording of the law will have to be understood in such a way that institutional stay must be carried out at the same time as the establishment of protection.’ — linked to the fact that there are patients we are talking about who you do not consider to be able to take care of yourself, who are not considered to have an evaluative capacity or a judgment that makes it possible to initiate voluntary treatment, but that you actually have to use coercive treatment. How are you going to leave it to that group to choose where the coercion is going to happen? I would like to hear that, as Gunhild Eye could not give any answer to it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e384	As far as the control commission is concerned, I can't see that it's going to be any harder to visit a district psychiatric centre than a hospital, of course, as today's outbound and with unannounced visits. I also think it is very positive that the law states that the Control Commission should assess on its own initiative whether there is a need for compulsory protection if more than three months have passed. Now maybe it won't be so important in such a context. – Now I have forgotten what the next question was from the representative of Ballo. I think I have to ask you to repeat the last question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e391	Can I repeat that from the hall?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e403	The President will propose that we give the opportunity to clarify this question later, when we go over to the three-minute posts. So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e408	This is a debate which should be the legal follow-up and the legal basis and basis for the escalation plan adopted for psychiatry. Just as there was a great deal of agreement about the escalation plan, there is also a great deal of consensus about today's law. There are only a few points of disagreement, but these few points are all the more important – as the debate has so far shown. This concerns the question of whether professional liability should be a psychiatrist or a clinical psychologist and the question of non-institutional coercion. The question of the use of coercion is the most important and most difficult in psychiatry, as elsewhere. It concerns key human rights, and it affects the integrity and dignity of patients. It is therefore only in cases of extreme urgency that treatment can be initiated against the will of a person. Voluntary measures shall always be attempted first. However, if the patient’s prospect of recovery or significant improvement is significantly reduced or he presents a nearby and serious risk to his or her own life or to others, he or she may be coerced under certain conditions. All conditions and conditions for the use of coercion are agreed upon. But there is disagreement about the use of coercion – and that is unfortunately very important. I'm not a moment in doubt that the majority, just as strongly as the minority, want to limit the use of force to a minimum. But I'm sorry to say that what the majority is doing is going to increase the use of coercion. Because when we extend the scope of coercion, while the lack of institutional facilities is high, it should not be a great deal of prediction to predict that more people will be subjected to forced action in the home environment. And the worst thing is that this might happen because, in the absence of institutional space, it's cheaper and simpler. Forces are naturally perceived as so intrusive and degrading that, as the Right sees it, it is important for the maintenance of human dignity that the scope is not extended. That is why the vast majority of the hearing bodies, both patient organisations and the professional community — either, and I would say that they are close to or far from the institutions — have largely and largely opposed this increased access to forced use in the home environment without prior institutional treatment. Fortunately, the Government and the majority have abandoned the proposal for domestic coercive treatment. However, the proposal to maintain the possibility of imposing and, if necessary, to bring the patient into the home for the presence of forced treatment at the district psychiatric centres encounters strong opposition, both from patient teams and from professional communities. You can imagine the dignity of being picked up by a police car in order to be transported from their home to an outpatient offer. Helen Bjørnøy from the Church's Bymition wrote in Stavanger Aftenblad on 25 May this year, among others. the following: ‘Opening up the use of coercion also outside the hospitals is a serious breach of the human vision that has so far existed in our society. Outpatient treatment is precisely based on the fact that at the end of the hour you should leave. Then you are alone – with the forced experience and the trauma as it is in addition to the disease. The point must be to maintain that if a patient is so poor that he himself is not able to benefit from outpatient treatment — but that one has to use coercion — then he/she is so poor that he/she needs the care and treatment and the relationships that lie just in hospitalisation.’ I can't help but stop myself completely until what she says there. Because here, in the Right's opinion, we are at the heart of the matter. No matter how well-intentioned the majority that the second paragraph of Section 3-1 should lead to less coercive use, it is sad to say that even patients who want to be treated and who are seeking help voluntarily do not escape. The situation described by the majority, namely that this should lead to less coercive use, is, at best, a reality in six or seven years – when, hopefully, we have implemented the escalation plan which is only in its very earliest stages. Patients who today want treatment do not get it, simply because they are not sick enough. The consequence is that they get so sick that they are finally admitted to hospitals under coercion, and that they are printed too early. This paradox is the rule today, not the exception. Now this can be reinforced by increased access to forced treatment with medicines to keep people in check. This is to address the problem at the end of the problem. First, the offer needs to be expanded and the escalation plan implemented, so that there is no shortage at all, and so that people get help when they ask for it. Only then can we prevent an unfortunate disease development and thus the need for the forced use that we unfortunately see today. The majority, as the rapporteur has also pointed out, have included in its comments on the second paragraph of Section 3-1 important clarifications on how to apply this new option. I also quote from the majority's comment, which says: ‘If the patient himself is of the opinion that an institutional stay would be the best, the wording of the law would have to be understood in such a way that institutional accommodation must be carried out at the same time as the establishment of the protection.’ They also say that: ‘the ability to establish mandatory mental health protection without a 24-hour period and without prior hospitalisation could preferably be relevant for patients known to be treated’. I believe that these are really so significant clarifications and limitations as to how the paragraph can be practised that I am surprised that the majority has not amended the law accordingly. Unlike the rapporteur, I believe that a patient does not have to be so sick that it is not possible to be subjected to coercion, and you are actually given a choice, as the majority has expressed itself in committee. Is it really true that the majority of people are serious about their comments – and it is important to assume that they are – that when you can choose whether to enforce in the home environment or in an institution, that the patient can choose, it should be stated in the legal text that there is a choice of the patient. Many patients think I'll be able to relate to it. As we know, many people would also prefer to get into an institution because those who have relationships, care and an environment that is more capable of caring for their needs, even after the hour is over. I would challenge the majority to think through whether a change in law here could be in place, so that there is consistency between the remarks, the important clarifications and the limitations that lie there, and the text of the law, because it is not now. In the case of Sections 1 to 4 and the professionally responsible person, there is reason to stress, as several have done, that in fact all support the general rule that there is consultation with the competent professional in charge of taking decisions and to decide on specific measures. The disagreement is about, if for a moment I ignore the Progress Party, to what extent regulations should be able to derogate from this general rule. If the majority, with its comments, will not change the reality, so that the exemption becomes more important than the general rule, the question of whether it is reasonable for the majority to go to work as detailed as they do in their comments. The majority consider that it is qualified to draw up precisely the professional lines, which should otherwise be laid down. I'm not going to read into the proposition and the notes that it says, either to the paragraph or to the text, that the ministry had initially thought of the dividing lines that the majority of people are in favour of. The right maintains that in most situations it will be a prerequisite for having the broad competence of a superior in order to take the decisions to be taken in the context of coercive treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e451	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e454	It's possible that in a little line-up we can clarify things that have been up in previous lines. In contrast to Annelise Höegh, I would argue that there is no conflict between the legal text and the majority's comments on the use of compulsory mental health protection outside the institution. The relationship is that the comments, as usual in such cases, can go further and more detailed than what can be done in a specific legislative text. I note with interest that there seems to be a difference in opinion, to which the representative of Høegh referred, in relation to the case rapporteur on the question of whether this should be in the patient's best interests, that the patient himself should be able to have an opinion on hospitalisation, or if mandatory mental health protection outside the institution is desirable. I understand it this way, and would like to have it confirmed, that Annelise Höegh shares our opinion that because if a patient is in a mental state that makes him need mental health protection, it is not necessarily excluded that this patient may have a reasoned opinion about whether he wants to be admitted to an institution, which he may have had experience with earlier, or whether he accepts treatment in his community, for example. in a district psychiatric centre, which we hope will be the model for this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e462	I think it is a little strange that the representative Are Næss believes that it would be difficult to include important clarifications in the legal text that you have in the comments. There are no formal obstacles to the majority being able to take in the clarifications they themselves have made, perhaps caused by a letter I sent to the Minister of Health. I don't know, but they're at least quite identical to his answer to me, and that would clarify this in a completely different way than having it in notes. Everyone sitting here knows that it's not obvious that the comments that we write – excellent as they can all be – will be decisively focused on and determine how this is going to be practiced out there. That's why I'm surprised the majority didn't want to include them in the legal text. It would be a useful clarification, which I think would make treatment in everyday life easier, when the majority has decided to stand on the proposal they have. But there should be no doubt, as Are Næss now sought to add up, that Right wants to support what the majority stands for. We have noticed that patients, patient organisations and the professional community in very strong order have largely rejected the proposal with which the Government and the majority have remained, but that of course does not prevent us from believing that some patients – I do not dare to say here as a full legperson whether it would be a majority or just a few – will be able to relate to an election situation where one is to be forced. But it's not a regime we recommend.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e467	I registered that both the representative of the government parties and now also Annelise Höegh stated that if coercive treatment is not to take place in an institution, it will be linked to the district psychiatric center. I want to ask Annelise Höegh the question whether that is so obvious. When you read the ministry’s comments, you can see from the consultation note that it could even happen in the patient’s home. We have been told that they have not meant that. But in my view, there is in no way any clarification as to the wording that links this directly to district psychiatric centres. Does Höegh look like the legal text restrictions here that suggest that there is a need for treatment? Could it not, for example, be assumed from the text that it happened with the local municipal doctor, or that it happened under the control of a psychiatric unit, but without necessarily the overall competence of a district psychiatric centre? The wording here is really just that it should be a supreme institution with responsibility. I would like to ask Annelise Höegh if she perceives it in such a way that the legal text of the Department and the observations of the majority here are unambiguous in that it is where the treatment in the districts necessarily has to take place.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e472	I think the rapporteur is quite right in saying that there is nothing in the text that implies a restriction on compulsory mental health protection without a daily stay in district psychiatric centres. There's nothing in the law. It's one of several places where you can be outpatiently exposed to coercive medication and other forms of coercive treatment, so there's also another reason to be skeptical about expanding the scope of coercive treatment, which I was in my post. In a situation where we are in an acute shortage of institutional facilities, it is in my opinion to start at a completely wrong end to extend the use of coercion when you are in an economic and personnel construction phase, where I think it is unfortunately all reason to fear that this measure will be used in situations where you do not have the required personnel in place so that the coercive treatment can be done in a proper and good way for the patient. At least it would be more reassuring if the majority had left this amendment to the law until the plan of escalation had been implemented, so that at least there could be some certainty that this opening was not used as a cheap way to escape treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e477	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e480	In the work on this legislation, the use of coercive measures has received the highest attention both in the media and in the hearing opinions. This is natural, as the use of coercion for treatment involves a serious attack on the individual’s legal security, human dignity and integrity. At the same time, evidence shows that the use of coercive measures in Norwegian psychiatry has been relatively high, and the Ministry points out that it is an objective to reduce the real use of coercive measures in Norway. There should be no doubt that the patient’s needs and the individual’s human dignity should be the starting point for the treatment being given. The main condition for the use of mandatory mental health protection shall be the existence of a serious mental illness and the necessity of compulsory protection to prevent the patient from experiencing a significant reduction in his/her prospects of recovery or improvement, or the likelihood of significant deterioration without adequate treatment. However, there shall be no automation in the establishment of mandatory mental health protection. First, one should have tried to provide treatment and care on a voluntary basis. It is important to stress that the Ministry proposes a provision that the patient or close to him may at any time require discharge from mandatory mental health protection. A person under voluntary mental health protection shall also not be able to be transferred to compulsory protection. Because of the changes we have removed from the institution to the widest possible treatment provision near the patient, it is necessary to have a system that opens up the possibility of coercive treatment even outside the institution. And that's exactly this point that has given rise to the greatest attention and debate. The fact that this is relevant must be seen as a consequence of the developments that have taken place, among others. based on the fact that the vast majority of people with mental health disorders live and live in their municipalities and should have an offer there. The psychiatry report acknowledges that more resources need to be deployed in the community health service and in the community environment for those in need of assistance. It is gratifying that the Committee fully agrees that the use of coercive measures should be an absolute last instrument. It is also important to note that the draft law does not allow for the use of coercion on the patient’s home. A majority of the Committee, i.e. The Workers’ Party, the Christian People’s Party and the Center Party, point out that forced entry into institutions for many is perceived as very burdensome. It is therefore obvious that a varied and flexible range of services is also needed in the area of mandatory mental health protection. It is important to be clear that all measures and treatments should be carried out in the best interests of the patient and with respect for it. Then you would wish that all the use of force was not applicable, but we know that unfortunately it is not the case. There are always exceptional cases. Then it is important that the forced use chosen by the patient is as mild as possible. A good treatment outcome will depend a lot on the patient’s experience, help and not least motivation. It is therefore important to facilitate the widest possible provision of care for those who wish to do so in relation to the home environment. The majority are therefore of the opinion that compulsory mental health protection can be achieved without a daily stay in an institution when there is a better alternative for the patient. This majority also stresses that one reason why coercive treatment is at all is needed may be that the sick person is going too long before help is given. Therefore, it should be natural to assume that, in the longer term, there will be a less need for coercive treatment as mental health protection in municipalities is extended. The same majority also emphasises that the patient’s needs are the starting point of the measures and that, following the legislative proposal, there is no automatic implementation of coercive treatment. A separate decision must be taken in accordance with § 4-4, based on its own strict conditions. It is also important to note that the legislative proposal does not imply an extension of the use of coercion. The majority, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, also note that to the extent that the patient does not feel safe in the home situation, the patient should be allowed to stay in an institution. Close follow-up and care activities will be needed in the case of outpatient treatment. Variation and the proximity of the care services in the field of mental health protection may, in my opinion, also include beds in connection with a medical department in a somatic hospital. Staying at such a department would be less stigmatizing than staying at a special institution and could therefore contribute to faster and better treatment outcomes. With this law and the law on specialist health care, which was passed on 27 May, we have come closer to an equality between psychiatric and somatic disorders. If we get the desired development, with more treatment and faster supply in patients’ community, we are likely to achieve much more rapid recovery, and avoid developing deep and long-term psychiatric diseases. Best results are obtained when the patient is susceptible to help and self-informed of his or her need for help. However, to the extent that coercive measures need to be implemented, it is important that they are followed with the necessary care.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e503	The scheduled time for the evening meeting has run out. The President will propose that the Odelstinget proceed with the debate until the file is completed today – and see it as agreed. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e508	§ 3-7 Request for compulsory mental health protection states: «The public authority or the nearest may, on the basis of the opinion of a doctor pursuant to Sections 3-4 or 3 to 5, as well as any further examination by an institution pursuant to Sections 3 to 8, request that the person be subject to compulsory mental health protection as specified in Sections 3 to 1.» It appears from the quotation that the very controversial and controversial system of tutoring by the immediate relatives is maintained despite the fact that it has caused many unhappy family tragedies up to our days. The progress party is opposed to maintaining the tutoring statement of the immediate family, as we believe that this system can be a great burden both for the patient and the family at the forefront and especially after a forced insertion. I point out that mental health in Norway is also opposed to family tutoring. The best example I can point out when it comes to the very unfortunate consequences of a family tutor, is the Juklerød thing, which will go into the psychiatric history as a scandal. Will the representative No Quail Bay give me a good reason why the Senter Party will maintain the system of family tutoring?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e526	The patient picture and the disease situation in the country, including in mental health, are very complex and very varied. Family situations are also very complex. We cannot avoid cases that are very critical and should not have occurred — even in the future. However, we want to provide the widest possible and best decision-making base and treatment provision. As far as I understand the bill, the patient should also be allowed to join in and give his opinion on who should be defined as the nearest relative. This doesn't necessarily have to be just people who are closest to relatives, as I've understood it – with the possibility that I've been able to misunderstand it. Nevertheless, I believe that the representative Alvheim also realises that there are cases where the patient is not able to take the necessary decision on action. We must then be allowed to show that you can obtain help from others. Hopefully, we also have to make it possible to make sure that as many of the locals as possible have close relatives who are good for them. I think that giving the best possible treatment in the municipalities, in the smaller and more transparent environments, facilitates that the close relatives are also the good relatives who will give the good advice.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e535	The representative Kvalbukt said that the majority bill would not involve increased use of coercion. Several of the other speakers of the majority have said the same thing earlier in this debate. It would be interesting to know where to get that knowledge from. If you were to make a precise statement, you would have to be careful to say that the purpose of the proposal is not that it should lead to an extension of the use of coercion. There can be no one in this room who can be sure of how a reform that has never been near to practice in the past, namely access to non-institutional coercive practices, will be put into practice. This is at best a game of chance with good intentions behind it. Now the representative Kvalbukt claimed that this is the result of a development towards emphasising, as far as possible, treatment in the local environment. That could not be a correct description. What has been agreed in the Stortinget, which was behind the psychiatry escalation plan, and which was presented by the Health Minister Hernes, was a clear demonstration that it was made wrong in the 1980s, among other things. As a result of the Retirement scandal — the construction of residential sites far beyond professional coverage. In any case, it has not yet been possible to solve the problems that have thus arisen in the immediate environment. My question to the representative Kvalbukt is this: How in the world at large should increased access to forced use in the community solve this problem? Does it have to be obvious to start at the crazy end?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e544	I'm going to believe that the purpose that we're at all running politics is to steer towards ever better goals. I agree with the representative Inge Wohnning that we cannot predict the future, but we know how we want it, and we are trying to make that right. Once we have decided to strengthen health protection with care and follow-up in the community and also give signals that more resources should be allocated to this, we need reason to expect it to produce results, otherwise it has no intention of adopting it. Strengthening health protection in municipalities, in the neighbourhoods, will lead to a previous diagnosis of disease and a previous diagnosis. We know that early diagnosis and early intervention will prevent a disease from developing into a long-term, serious and perhaps chronic disease. We will also need less coercion. But opening up to coercion in situations other than before actually has the connection that we adapt to reality. When several patients are treated outside the institution, it is also possible that more – or at least some – may have to be subjected to coercive measures taken outside the institution. In addition, coercive measures will consist of a wide range of measures. It doesn't necessarily just have to be strong medical treatment, it can be, for example. the obligation to enter into a conversation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e555	I took note with interest of the question from the committee leader John Alvheim and with great interest the answer that came from the representative of the Central Party. As regards the use of the tutoring statement, which I understand was the subject of the question, it is mentioned in sections 3 to 6 and 3 to 7 of the new bill. It's very unclear to me, based on the answer given here, what the majority really means. But the answer to John Alvheim should be very simple. In the past, it was the relatives who were first asked to write a tutor's statement, while there is now a public authority that is primarily to be asked. It is only in exceptional cases that the use of the family at all will be relevant because the question is primarily addressed to the public authority. I therefore assume that the Senterpartiet agrees that the problem that Alvheim is raising here is now so little that it is really a non-problem issue.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e563	As I said earlier this evening, we have a very complex picture of reality. It does not exist in A4 format. Therefore, I do not think it is right to reject the question from Alvheim as a non-existent relationship. However, whether it is the public authority to be asked or it is the patient’s closest, it shall be on recommendation from and in consultation with a doctor.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e568	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e571	As the rapporteur said, it is an important law to be dealt with today. I think it might be a point to stress, as the case-rapporteur did, that there is a link between the law we are dealing with today and the law on patient rights. One might point out that individual rights are important in relation to mental health and that individual rights are respected in a particularly good way. There is reason to stress that this also applies in relation to voluntary treatment, not only in relation to coercive treatment. We may dislike it, but mental disorders are now referred to as less than somatic disorders. For example, establishing stakeholder organisations is more difficult. Having a mental disorder will often make a less capable of caring for one's own interests than it would, after all, be for most somatic patients. It is also obvious that mental disorders will often be a heavy burden on the relatives. In between, relatives may still be in a situation where they need to take a stand on the issue of giving a tutoring statement. There is in no way any simple problem to be faced with. Since the Left is not a member of the Committee, I will not, on behalf of the Party, make statements on all questions, but I will deal with a few issues a little bit more closely. At the vote, we will vote with the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. What has been particularly central to the debate is the question of the use of coercion, and then the use of coercion outside the institution according to the second paragraph of Section 3-1. There is a good reason why this has become a central issue, because it is also a difficult question. We also need to look at the relationship between the legal text and the premises that have been included in the majority comments, including from the proposition. With regard to the legal text, it is clarified that mandatory mental health protection can occur without a daily stay in an institution when there is a better alternative for the patient and with prescriptions to the patient for attendance for treatment. It is clear, however, in the legislative text that coercive treatment cannot be carried out at home. But who then takes a position on what is better for the patient? Is it the treating doctor or the responsible doctor? It shall in any case be of professional concern. But in the closer assessment, is it related or the patient himself? There's probably something in this problem that makes it not quite simple. It is apparent from a statement in the preamble that if the patient prefers it, he/she should have an institutional stay. In addition, there is a comment in the opinion that mandatory mental health protection without daily rest will usually apply to people who have previously been admitted or are at least known to the treatment system. One way to understand it might be that there doesn't have to be such a very long distance between the kind of treatment that this is about, and an after protection, that there is also access to outside the institution today. I have a certain sense of the point of view of Annelise Höegh that the legal text could have been a little clearer. It is important to look at the issue in relation to regulations, and it is also clear that it is a point to evaluate this issue. There is no clear answer to the question of more or less coercion, but it is easy to understand that someone can experience coercion as less brutal when you can live at home and not be admitted to an institution, and that there may be a danger that you will use it more easily – and that would be contrary to the premises. As for the question of psychiatrists and psychologists, I only allow myself to refer to what has been said earlier by the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Workers' Party. As regards proposal No: 2, from the right and from the left, I have a few comments on it. It is clear that it is important to focus on the patient’s own involvement in treatment and the patient’s own position, and whether this has been expressed at an earlier time, that it is also taken into account in relation to treatment. It is my opinion that the legal decisions we will take in relation to Sections 4-1 – 4 to 4 together take care of what is being done with proposal No. 2 and, on the other hand, another proposal wants to be achieved without the direct transfer of decision-making powers to the county doctor.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e599	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e602	I would like to ask a question to the representative of Hove. As far as I know, the representative is Hove's lawyer, but of course it's to the magnification representative I'm asking the question. My question is as follows: in the case of mismedication by an institution where a psychologist has the professional responsibility to make decisions, who is there to be held responsible? Is it the doctor who printed out the medicine – it's only a doctor who can print medicine – or is it the psychologist who is responsible for taking action?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e609	The problem ‘responsible’ is used in very many relationships and often in a slightly precise way. One thing is the professional responsibility and, in particular, the direct responsibility for the decision taken. It will necessarily have to be held by the psychologist who may decide to enter and by the doctor or another person who may decide to take medication. But if you think about liability in relation to any liability, I would be very surprised if this would be crucial for the patient if it was someone who had to be responsible here. In any case, an institution or a public body will be liable for liability whether the error is committed by a psychologist, who is professionally responsible for filing, or by the person who has made the medication. So I don't think exactly that the issue of responsibility here is the most important question. The main issue here is who can make sound and professional decisions in relation to, inter alia: use of coercion. That's really what has to be the central question, not the question of responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e614	Many will probably go home, but it's almost 40 years ago when we passed such a law, and I think that part of what is revealed in this room is quite sympathetic. When it comes to what Hove here says, I don't think I'm ironic, that such legal considerations are actually quite interesting -- I'm not even a lawyer. But what I know from experience from municipalities is that in the situation that arises between municipalities and specialist health services, there is not at all the kind of consideration that can be heard in this room, namely that ‘that is to be understood that way’ or that ‘there will be no more use of coercion’. The point is that you're in a situation in the day-to-day situation where you ask an institution: can you take this patient, because he's actually bad? The majority in this room do, is to give a warrant to that institution to say no, the treatment you can now take care of yourself. And it's clear that legal looppipes won't concern either the patient, or the patient, at all, and they won't be concerned at all with Gunhild The Eye's assurance that you won't now use coercion. It has nothing to do with reality. What I think is regrettable in this debate is that the reality that patients have to deal with cannot be made visible, and that makes me the rapporteur of the case. I also record that some of the answers here bear the impression that you have not actually inserted the legal text. I am pleased that this is not about the representative Hove, who is not even a member of the social committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e625	I may have been close to having a heart attack once in a while – I can feel that some of the debates and issues we're faced with, don't always agree with, or fit perfectly well with, the experience you have of the reality outside – where you had to have your background – this hall. It is clear, as the representative Ballo pointed out, that the decision-making body to make the decision in relation to the individual patient will often find itself in a situation where resource scarcity is also part of reality – lack of institutional facilities, lack of professionally qualified persons, lack of just money can also be a problem. That's why I think it's very important to stress that forcing treatment outside the institution, too, does not lead to less responsibility for institutions to accept patients. The only legitimate justification – and by ‘legitim’, I also mean ‘legally sustainable’ in the light of the legal text that may be adopted – is to initiate such treatment if this would be better for the patient. I think we're going to have to hold on to that, no matter what reality you might be in.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e632	In the fourth act in Peer Gynt it is a line that says: I am on the road, but protesting for the world! The representative of Hoves' post made me think about it a little bit. He announced that he would vote with the majority – and then he used his entire intervention to problematize the majority's position. That's a very good reason to do that. But there was one question that, to my surprise, was not affected by Hove, and that is the legal security aspect. We know that the control commissions with today's system don't always work as intended. But what's quite obvious is that the control function, with the opening now given for forced use outside the established, professionally powerful institutional environments, will have to be weakened quite dramatically simply because it has no meaning, as was said in a previous line change, that the visits of the control commissions can occur unannounced also around the districts. It won't be practical. What is the guarantee of legal certainty at the control commissions is, of course, that one has heavy institutions professionally, with great professional resources, and the control commissions can come unannounced and meet patients, and talk to them. This function is very difficult for me to imagine in a practical way during the form of forced use that is now being opened up. Doesn't Hove see that this weakens legal certainty quite drastically?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e641	I have chosen to make it a rule from time to time to admit the doubts and uncertainties you may have in relation to the decisions you agree to make. This does not mean that you do not think it is right to make the decision, but it may, among other things, be. be to make clear that there is reason to follow-up and follow-up here, and actually carry out a real and serious evaluation when some time has passed. I'd like to highlight this by evaluating this scheme that you're in favour of here, and after a while ask yourself the question: does this work as you've thought, or has practice here become different from what you'd put up to? At that point, I think it's in no way given that evolution is going to go like this part of the hall is expressing fear, it could also be that it's the ones that express clear hopes, that could get right here. Otherwise, I have to say that what has been problematised especially by my side, and that Annelise Höegh was also involved, is if none of the clarifications that have been expressed in the comments, should have been included in the legal text itself. Insofar, there is no reservation relative to entering the scheme under the second paragraph of Section 3-1 in isolation. As far as the control commissions are concerned, it is perhaps my slightest concern because I believe that the control commissions will be able to exercise control of the patient’s place of residence as well – and I stress that I use the word ‘dwelling’ rather than ‘dwelling’ here. In other words, the control commissions will be able to move in order to have a meeting, which would make it reasonably easy to control the decision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e658	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e661	The primary objective of Psychiatric Health Protection Act is to ensure that mental health protection is carried out properly with a strong focus on the patient’s best, patient’s self-determination, patient participation and in accordance with fundamental principles of legal certainty and thus respect for human dignity. The law we are adopting today will improve the legal status of today for patients and build up during the implementation of the mental health escalation plan. The Roadmap for Mental Health, to be implemented in the period 1999-2006, contains key elements that must also have an impact on legal work. The aim of the plan is to address weaknesses at all stages of the treatment chain. The main problems are: Prevention is too weak. There are too few services in the municipalities. There are too few treatment sites available for several heavy users. There is too much follow-up after printing. That is why the plan contains a number of measures that can improve this, and I mention, for example, not randomly: 90,000 more days per day. years at the district psychiatric centre 220,000 more outpatient treatments without hospitalisation 4000 more work-training places for people with mental illness The basic principle of future mental health protection is that people should have far greater rights and opportunities to live both in their own municipality, in their own housing and to receive their treatment outside institutions when this is professionally sound. These include: In this context, it is necessary to understand the organisation of coercive measures, which became a major theme in legislative work, and which has also been a main theme of the debate here today. There have been a number of confusing characteristics of the different positions. This has not necessarily benefited the matter, but the debate has been necessary. I therefore feel that from the Labour Party and the majority, I should like to stress the following: increasing access to resources and more and better qualified health professionals must be the basis for less forced use than we see today. The consequences of the disease are such that, unfortunately, coercive treatment must be a possible measure. The law clearly specifies that coercion can be used, for example: where, because of a mental illness, a present or serious risk to the life and health of one or other person is present, when the patient is likely to suffer a significant deterioration in his condition or when the possibility of improvement is significantly reduced without coercive use. I also find reason to point out that in the legal text and in the preparatory work of the law it is explicitly stated in sections 3 to 3: ‘Required mental health protection can only be applied when voluntary mental health protection has been tested, without this having been demonstrated, or it is obviously pointless to try.’ It is also logical that when coercive measures are to be implemented in accordance with the strict criteria laid down by law, this should also be possible outside institutions. For many patients coercion in the institution will be a very dramatic experience. There may therefore be situations in which it is best for the patient to have coercive measures carried out in outpatient settings. No home coercive treatment shall be carried out. I would also like to stress that non-institutional coercive treatment can only be carried out under the responsibility of an institution authorised for the treatment in question, and of course under the same professional, decision-making and implementation requirements as for persons admitted. This I think it is necessary to underline after what I have heard today, especially in some line changes. Then I would say to those representatives of user organisations who fear that the law would lead to more and not less forced: follow the law carefully! Follow the practice in the municipalities! If the legal wording were to be seen as a legalisation of more forced use and lead to more coercion, this had to be addressed with the supervisory authorities, with the ministry and with the legislators. The legal regulation that has been made is intended to give patients more dignity, self-determination and greater right to influence treatment and residence. This must also be seen in the context of the rights granted to these patients by the provisions of the Patient Rights Act, as well as the need for a bet of DKK 24 billion in the coming eight-year period to provide better services to people with mental illness and, hopefully, less forcible use.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e725	The draft law currently under discussion in Odelstinget is one of several instruments to ensure better provision of services to people with mental health problems. Together with the mental health escalation plan 1999-2006, the new legislation represents an important boost to the provision of treatment and care to people with mental health disorders. At the heart of the escalation plan is the strengthening of municipal services. Furthermore, specialised treatment services should be developed with particular emphasis on outpatient treatment, day-time treatment and short-term daily treatment. It is in the establishment of district psychiatric centres as strong professional units with interdisciplinary staffing and with close contact with the local auxiliaries. At the same time, it strengthens the range of services offered to those in need of special institutional services, including: persons sentenced to psychiatric treatment. Special priority is given to the development of paediatric psychiatry. One of the objectives of this large resource supply is to enable municipalities and county municipalities to better handle and provide help to people with mental disorders. Where aid can be provided at an earlier date, it could reduce the need for coercion. The government is well in the process of implementing the escalation plan, and the law under consideration by the Stortinge takes account of the new structure and new ways of thinking in the provision of psychiatric services. The law deals with matters that require special regulation in the case of psychiatric patients. The title of the law reflects the fact that the law contains rules on the establishment and implementation of mental health protection. For example, in the context of mandatory mental health protection: centrally that the control system and the possibility of judicial review are well regulated. Contentually, the new law broadly perpetuates the main principles of the current law. In general, I would like to highlight four important changes to the current law: The law provides for a clearer regulation of coercive measures. This is in line with general developments, where clear grounds for intervention and equivalent remedies are required. The law focuses more on patient involvement. The law does not contain any organisational or financial provisions. These conditions are fully regulated by the Specialist Health Service Act. The law does not contain an ‘institutional directory’. The current law regulates where mental health protection can take place. When this does not continue, the law will be better adapted to general developments, with more varied types of institutions and greater localisation near where patients live. In relation to compulsory mental health protection, the new law provides for the establishment of an authorisation system in relation to which institutions should be liable for compulsory mental health protection. It also applies when the compulsory protection is carried out without daily accommodation. In the media debate, and also in the committee position, there has been a great deal of emphasis on the proposal that the professional responsible for taking decisions under the law should be a superior. The background to this proposal is that it will be the psychiatric superior who has the broadest competence to assess the patient’s condition. Medical competence is important with regard to the possible organic contexts of mental illness and, in particular, necessary in the context of decisions on mandatory mental health protection or mandatory medical treatment. This provision provides for a basis for the possibility of exempting who is to be responsible for taking decisions on a professional basis. In this context, the various provisions of the bill will be reviewed in order to assess the cases in which this function could be properly performed by other professional groups. This may, for example: become applicable in relation to shielding. However, the provision of the law on liability for decision-making is not decisive in relation to the issue of general management. According to the systematics of health legislation, management issues are regulated, inter alia: of the Law on the Specialist Health Service. This means that no special occupational group should have a monopoly on management jobs, nor on mental health protection. Another topic that has been much discussed is the proposal for mandatory mental health protection without a daily stay in an institution. The proposal has great similarities with today's compulsory after-care system, but with the difference that protection can be created without a prior residence. The background to the proposal is the desire to facilitate a more flexible system in relation to choice of treatment modalities. In my view, this form of compulsory protection for some patients could be less invasive than forced insertion. The legislative proposal also states that this option should only be used where this appears to be the best for the patient, and the legislative proposal does not allow for the establishment of mandatory mental health protection in the home. The law contains, as is known, several grounds for coercive intervention. Rules on coercion and integrity-invasive actions vis-à-vis individuals raise serious ethical and value issues. The debate that has taken place in the media shows that this is engaging. It has been claimed that the law provides for more use of coercion. I will refute this. The conditions for the application of mandatory mental health protection are strict and partly tightened in relation to the applicable law. In those areas where there have been new rules on coercive and restrictive measures, we have proposed to regulate a practice that we know is a necessary part of mental health protection even today. For reasons of legal certainty, the Government has adopted a legislative strategy to make such measures visible. This does not mean session forced, but enforcement control.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e766	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e769	As I mentioned earlier, I read the majority comment on sections 1 to 4 so that this goes beyond what I can read from the proposal in the proposition and in the legal text. Is the Council of State comfortable with this situation? The Council of State will ensure that, when the regulations come — which he was in the context of his statement — it shows that measures under this paragraph could be taken by non-psychiatrists when, for example, they are taken. for screening – are there only psychiatrists who can take coercive medication measures?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e774	Let me first clarify – which I think is needed in this debate – that we are talking about the power to adopt mandatory mental health protection and not management issues. There's been a tendency to mix it up, and it's important to say clearly about it. With regard to the provision on the basis of which a regulation provides for exemption from the professional responsibility for decision-making, the Ministry will, on the basis of the examination here in Stortinget and on the basis of the provisions of the Act, examine the circumstances in which this function is to be properly performed by other professional groups. I would like to say that in those cases where there is a greatest need for medical competence, such as: in cases of medication, there is at least reason to derogate from the prescription.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e781	A majority is in favour of opening up the use of non-institutional coercion without prior notice. At least I find it difficult from the comments of the law to be aware of what kind of use of coercion it will be about. It is clear that it is not open to the use of coercion in the home, but on what kind of other arenas – to say it like that – is it open to the use of coercion? Several have mentioned that these are district psychiatric centres, but will it be possible, for example, to imagine coercive use of psychiatric units in collaboration with psychiatric nurses, possibly at community health centres or with private municipal doctors, because the institutions have outlined that there will be appropriate coercive use? For example, in the case of forced mental retardation, injecting in the doctor’s office is currently taking place after the patient has been expelled from an institution. Will it also be possible, under the new law, that the local health service is given considerable additional responsibility for injecting because the institutions that do not receive the patients believe it would be an appropriate and proper way to treat the patient? I would also like to ask the Minister of Health: it has been said that the Control Commission does not face a greater problem with the municipalities than the institution, but such treatment as I outline here will be a treatment that will be over in five minutes, and there will be relatively many patients who will be able to be treated in that way. How will the Control Commission be able to monitor treatment, which is ongoing for a very short time, without having to be present to see many patients through treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e788	The legal system is that treatment in compulsory mental health protection without diurnal treatment is to be carried out in relation to approved institutions. Those institutions shall be recognised in accordance with the essential health requirements laid down by law. In practice, these institutions must be able to provide the patient with a professional and materially satisfactory range of treatment and care. That's the basic requirement of the law. This will be mainly about outpatient clinics and district psychiatric centers. However, the essential thing is to have the approval of these institutions and to have the compulsory treatment to be carried out without intervention in relation to those approved institutions. With regard to the work of the control commissions, I believe that this basic assumption, namely the link with approved institutions, is essential for the control commissions to be able to do their work, and I believe that this should be possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e795	No more lines have been requested.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e798	Odelstinget today adopts a new law that gives mental health protection an up-to-date and modern piece of legislation. The law, together with the other major health laws of the United Kingdom, will provide a stronger legal position for the patient and a better framework for the development of an increasingly better health care system. The size of the population has previously laid the economic foundation for the development of mental health protection. Today, the legal basis is laid. Appropriations and legislation are the main means of re-establishing the neglected and ensuring a qualitatively adequate and professionally sound mental health protection. The active substances must complement each other and not counteract each other. In the view of the Workers' Party, there is a contradiction between the aim of the escalation plan of providing sufficient competent personnel and the wish of the Committee of the Regions to reserve the professional responsibility of doctors in the field of mental health protection. The country does not have, and will not have, far enough psychiatrists for that purpose in the foreseeable future. Psychologists with six years of basic education and long specialist training are a very important and qualified part of the mental health system. Clinical psychologists are already exercising professional responsibility in many of the counties of the country and at many different levels of mental health protection, both in childhood and youth psychiatry and in adult psychiatry. The minority’s insistence that only psychiatrists are qualified to hold professional responsibilities will therefore mean that the ambition of the Stockholm escalating plan needs to be reduced and today’s service provision reduced. It bears witness to numerous requests made to the Social Committee on the matter by staff in mental health protection in the counties, university communities and organisations. It is also important to bear in mind that mental health problems are often in the borderline between medicine, psychology and social conditions. Such broad competences are therefore necessary. The Directive on the liability of health professionals regulates the exercise of professional competence and the withdrawal of the limitation on data processing between different professional groups. Thus, the controller also has the responsibility for others to carry out parts of the processing if, according to the liability paragraph, he or she does not have the necessary competence. The working party considers that it is essential for the further development of mental health protection, not least in the districts, that there is a majority of the provisions on exemptions from the requirement of consultation as professionally responsible. The Labour Party would stress the importance of the fact that the majority of the Committee states that there will be an advantage to the overall treatment offered to patients, that psychologists can be more professionally responsible for decisions and decisions relating to the treatment of the patients for which they are responsible. I believe that Stortinget will thus help to resolve an unfortunate professional dispute, so that the conditions are facilitated so that it is the patient and not a single professional who is at the forefront of the Norwegian health system.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e813	I think it's important to establish that there's really a great deal of consensus on the new law on mental health protection, as there's been a great deal of agreement on the escalation plan in this area. The objective of the proposition has been to ensure that the implementation of mental health protection is carried out in a sound manner and in accordance with fundamental legal certainty. The appointment of the Committee follows substantially the proposition, but, in the case of § 6-2, the composition of the Supervisory Board, the Committee, as pointed out by the Advocate General, wanted to open the way for the Commission to be led by a lawyer qualified to act as a judge — not necessarily a lawyer with judicial experience. The Committee shall give reasons, inter alia: that there may be an unfortunate situation if many judges are chairmen of commissions, while at the same time reviewing the decision-making process. Of course, the most important thing in this regard is not that the lawyer has experience as a judge but that he has the necessary competence. I think it is also important that the lawyer, in addition to his competence to be qualified to act as a judge, also has knowledge of the subject matter in question. Psychiatric health protection is such a special area of justice that, in my opinion, this can be a significant issue. A key point in the debate on this law has been the use of coercion. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to stress that this law does not give access to increased use of coercion. On the contrary, our hope is that the development of psychiatry in the districts will allow for previous intervention and thus prevent situations that could lead to forced use. The fact that, in cases where the patient’s best interests exist, access to compulsory mental health protection is also provided without a 24-hour period in an institution does not in any way lead to a change in the conditions for the use of compulsory mental health protection. Paragraphs 3 to 3 continue to set the same strict limits on the use of mandatory mental health protection, and that is the legal paragraph that provides for the possible use of coercive measures. That's where the limits of coercion are set, and they're not extended. They are and must be strict. The fact that coercion can now be carried out outside the institution in this context does not mean that one patient more falls under the conditions of coercion. Then I just want to confirm and correct a mistake, which the case rapporteur also pointed out. On page 21 of the setting, column two, line one, reads ‘District Policy Centre’. It shall be the ‘District Psychiatric Centre’. Psychiatry can also be district policy, but I hope that most of the district policy will remain outside the area of the law on mental health protection.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e827	Let me first be sorry that I'm sitting down here hiding before and with my back to the president. Or, by the way, I guess I'm not really the one to complain about this. I have also addressed this in a separate question to the Presidentship of the Stortinge. Enough about it! I record that the present draft has mainly given general support to the patient organisations, professional environments and relevant administrative bodies. However, a large majority of the hearing bodies have expressed great concern at the law’s opening of coercion without hospitalisation in a diurnal institution. To this I would like to point out that the scepticism that arises must be taken very seriously, especially when a viewer addresses the requirements of the law to the content of the compulsory use in § 4-4. However, it is also important to point out that when the majority allows the use of coercion without insertion in a 24-hour offer in special cases, it is emphasised in the law that the use of coercion under § 4-4 is not to be applied. I refer here to the requirements of the law in § 3-1, where it says: ‘Required mental health protection can then be provided while the patient is staying at his own home and can only include prescriptions to the patient for attendance for treatment.’ So when the representative Ballo makes a point of something that is made as a manifest contradiction, namely, whether serious people with mental illness are able to decide for themselves where the treatment should be given, the natural answer must be that if the patient is in such a situation of choice, he should not be so ill as to require treatment under Section 4-4 of the Act, because if you are so ill, the patient should be admitted to an institution under the law. The purpose of such a provision is not, as someone has suggested, to reduce the provision of institutional space, but to recognise that too many people will be extra and very burdensome for forced entry into an institution. For those patients who are considered to have a better return on a home-based scheme on a professional basis, a more flexible solution, to which the majority submits, could contribute to a greater degree of therapeutic benefit and, in fact, be an orientation towards the patient. In order to prevent this from being exploited as a kind of relief mechanism for a resource-restricted treatment device, the majority have placed considerable emphasis on the fact that such use of non-institutional measures cannot be applied if the patient himself does not feel safe in the home situation. Then, as the law states, it will not be best to live at home, and the terms of the law for that will not be fulfilled either. One may sense the fear that the future may be a source of trouble when a viewer looks at today's resource situation. But it's a paradox when you're going to make a law for the future, if you just choose to look at what the world looked like yesterday. With a new law, we have to show a purpose, show a will to where we will in the future, and it is my hope that this law can bring mental health protection a significant step in the right direction and the desired direction. In addition, it is appropriate to recall that the majority – the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre – have expressly requested that the practice of this new provision be evaluated by an independent professional environment and that the Stortinget be informed of the outcome of the evaluation. I would like to make a point that such an evaluation must also include the experience of the patient himself and the patient's relatives and family, as further defined by § 1-3 of the bill.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e850	The President is aware that the Presidency has been given a letter that addresses the issues raised by the representative Lars Rovik Ødegård at the beginning of his speech. The Presidency will do its job of finding good and acceptable solutions, so that it is organized so that everyone can do a political work in the Stortinget and the Grand Hall. At the same time, it may also be right to point out that the design of the staging building and the anti-variable concerns associated with the building may hinder some solutions. But the President will stress that the Presidency will focus on finding good solutions to the issues mentioned. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e862	The odelsting goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e868	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Olav Gunnar Ballo on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Socialist Left Party proposal No. 2, by Olav Gunnar Ballo on behalf of the Right and Socialist Left Party proposal No. 3, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party The President would point out that the short version of the laws is replaced by the following: «Psychiatric Health Protection Act», not the «Psychiatric Law», as it stands after a typographical error in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e900	To the first sentence, there is an aberrant proposal, No. 3, from the Progress Party, which reads: ‘Section 1-1, first sentence, the first sentence shall be replaced by the following:The purpose of the law is for psychiatric patients, in line with somatic patients, to be entitled to treatment and to ensure that the establishment and implementation of mental health protection is carried out in a proper manner and in accordance with fundamental principles of legal certainty.’;
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e944	Here there is an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from the Progress Party, Right and Socialist Left Party, which reads: ‘Articles 1 to 3 first paragraph shall be replaced by the following: A person’s dependants are spouses, registered partners, persons living in matrimonial or partnership-like cohabitation with that person, mature children, parents or those who have parental responsibility, mature siblings or grandparents. If he/she does not have any dependants referred to above, he/she shall act as guardian or helper in their place.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e986	Here there is an aberrant proposal, No. 3, from the Progress Party, which reads: «Sections 1 to 4 shall be replaced by the following:Sections 1 to 4 The professional responsible for decisionThe professional responsible for taking decisions and deciding on specific measures under the law herein shall be the supervisor or other specialist in psychiatry. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e1046	To the first subparagraph, the first sentence and the second subparagraph, the first sentence, make a different proposal, No. 3, from the Progress Party, which reads: ‘The first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 2-1 shall be replaced by the following:The person who has reached the age of 18 may be taken under voluntary mental health protection on the basis of his/her own consent.§ 2-1, second subparagraph, first sentence, shall be replaced by the following:He/she shall not be entitled to consent if he/she is obviously unable to understand the justification for voluntary mental health protection.’;
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e1087	The third paragraph and the third sentence of the fourth paragraph are preceded by an aberrant proposal, No. 3, from the Progress Party, which reads: ‘Section 2-2, third paragraph, shall be replaced by the following:In the case of children under 18 years of age, the consent referred to in the first subparagraph shall be required from the person or persons responsible for the child.Article 2-2, fourth paragraph, third sentence, shall be replaced by:If the child under 18 years of age, the professional person responsible for the child and the person or persons responsible for the child shall sign.’; An alternative is to vote between the setting and this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e1144	To the second paragraph, there is an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from the Progress Party, Right and Socialist Left Party, which reads: ‘Section 3-1, second paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: Forced mental health protection may also occur without a daily stay in an institution where this is a better option for the patient, but only in immediate association with previous institutional residence. Forced mental health protection can then be provided while the patient is staying at his own home and can only include prescriptions to the patient for attendance for treatment. The patient may be removed if necessary. Where necessary, the collection may be effected by coercion and with the assistance of the public authority.’;» The second paragraph of the vote will be replaced by the proposal from the Party of Progress, the Right and the Socialist Left.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e1215	The step-by-step has a warning that they're going to go to the first term, the second and third terms.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e1239	Here there is an aberrant proposal, No. 3, from the Progress Party, which reads: ‘§ 3-6 is replaced by the following: § 3-6 Request for further investigation If, after personal examination as referred to in Sections 3-4 and 3-5, the physician is in doubt as to whether the conditions for compulsory health protection are present and consider further investigation necessary, the public authority may request that he be examined by an institution approved for the purpose, in order to ascertain whether the conditions are met, as provided for in paragraphs 3 to 6. [[observation]] § 3-8.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e1411	To the third paragraph, there is an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from the Progress Party, Right and Socialist Left Party, and besides a proposal, no. 2, from the Right and Socialist Left Party to the new fifth paragraph. The third paragraph of the vote will be replaced by proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, Right and Socialist Left Party, which reads: ‘Section 4-4, third paragraph, is replaced by the following: Study and treatment without its own consent may only be carried out when consent to the study or treatment has been sought. Where this is not manifestly impossible, it shall also be assessed whether other voluntary measures may be offered as alternatives to investigation and processing without their own consent.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e1429	The President will then vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right and Socialist Left Party, to the fifth paragraph. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the law on the establishment and implementation of mental health protection, the fifth paragraph of Section 4-4 shall be replaced by the following: If the conditions for mandatory mental health protection under § 3-3 are considered to be fulfilled, but the patient has reserved himself in writing and bearing witness to treatment in advance, before the relevant disease case occurred and at a time when the conditions for mandatory mental health protection under § 3-3 could not be considered to be fulfilled, treatment measures which conflict with the patient’s reservations shall be subject to professional responsibility for obtaining consent from the county doctor before the start of treatment.The fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth paragraphs shall be replaced by the sixth, seventh, eighth and ninth paragraphs respectively.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e1446	Several of them seem to have been wrong, and the president then suggests that we take the vote again. So we have to vote on proposal No. 2, from Right and Socialist Left Party, to § 4-4, fifth paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e1458	After all, more people have changed their mind. The rest of the sections under section 4-4 are taken up for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e1550	The President will vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, to § 4-11. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Sections 4 to 11 are replaced by the following: § 4 to 11 Contracts in case of outsourcing from psychiatric hospitals In case of outsourcing from psychiatric hospitals, a contract shall be drawn up in which the necessary follow-up of the patient from the hospital, the municipality of residence and the patient is included. The contract is signed by the hospital, the municipality of residence and the patient.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e1731	It's going to be over the right heading of the law and promised at all.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-lower.ana.ud609e1738	The Act will be sent to the Creation.
