ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e70	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party, Socialist Left Party, Left and Representative Steinar Bastesen 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e79	The Ministry of Transport proposes in its proposal amendments to the Road Traffic Act of 18 June 1965 No. 4th@item: inlistbox The following topics are addressed: New Section 23(b), prohibition of the use of electronic equipment, where the equipment may interfere with the driver, and Section 28 new second paragraph, approval of the price for the use of exercise paths for mandatory training for the driver of heavy-duty vehicles. For reasons of road safety, the Ministry considers it important to ensure that, in the light of technological developments, the use of electronic equipment in motor vehicles can be regulated. Against this background, a new Section 23(b) of the Road Traffic Act is proposed which empowers the Ministry of Transport to lay down detailed rules on the prohibition of the use of such equipment, where this is appropriate to disturb the driver. Among other things, it is desirable to be able to regulate the use of mobile telephones by drivers while driving. The second proposal refers to § 28 new second paragraph, approval of the price for the use of training courses for compulsory training for heavy duty drivers. Regulation of 14 June 1993 No 531 on compulsory training in smooth driving for heavy duty vehicles provides for compulsory smooth driving training courses for persons who are to acquire driving licences for the first time in categories C, CE, D or DE. The regulation applies today to candidates from 14 of the country's counties, and smooth lanes in Våler, Kristiansand and Lenvik are used for this training. In the Ministry's view, it is desirable that, through the course fee for compulsory training in smooth driving, the participants should only be charged with expenditure related to smooth driving training. The Ministry of Transport wishes to legislate the abovementioned requirement through a new second paragraph of Section 28 of the Road Traffic Act. The members of the Committee point out that the Government of New Section 23(b) will introduce a ban on the use of electronic equipment where the equipment may interfere with the driver. The Committee would point out that the general care rule in Section 3 of the Road Traffic Act also covers the use of mobile phones. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers’ Party, the Christian People’s Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left, will point out under Section 23(b) that the Transport Economic Institute’s report 387/1998 concludes that the use of mobile telephones during driving generally results in a certain increase in accident risk. The majority believe that the pedagogical effect of the ban will have a positive preventive effect. The majority also point out that the proposed change in Section 23(b) makes it possible to regulate the use of electronic equipment other than mobile phone by the driver. Section 28 new second paragraph: The majority of the Committee, all except the members of the Progress Party, joins the Ministry's proposal for a new second paragraph of Section 28 of the Road Traffic Act. Under Section 23(b), the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party consider that prohibiting the use of electronic equipment where equipment may potentially interfere with driving is unnecessary, as it is governed by current legislation. The progress party believes that there is a driver of a motor vehicle who is responsible for ensuring that he is not disturbed by persons or electronics while driving. The Progress Party believes that the regulation prohibiting the use of handheld mobile phones by drivers goes too far, and that it should be focused on awareness-raising work. The Progress Party believes that Section 3 of the Road Traffic Act, which determines that a driver must be advocating and careful in traffic, is also comprehensive in the case of mobile phones and other electronic equipment in the car. We are also very concerned that the state here is getting a golden chance to fine all drivers who keep a cell phone. We have enough of the UP people who are wondering in the bushes to fine us. This is probably a chance for the public to collect more money in the checkout box. The Progress Party is therefore clearly opposed to this new legislative proposal. It is sad that only the Progress Party is on the verge of new bans. All the other batches obviously love to create new bans and new taxes. Under Section 28, on training courses, the Progress Party considers that it is unfortunate to set a standard price that will prevent competition for compulsory training for drivers of heavy duty vehicles. The Progress Party would point out that equal training fees mean eliminating competition between the different training courses, pointing out that the costs of operating different paths are likely to be different, so that it would not necessarily be appropriate for the course fee to be the same at the different track installations. On this basis, these members will reject the second paragraph of Section 28 of the Road Traffic Act.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e115	The changes made to the Road Traffic Act in Stortinget today are small but important. They are important because they put the spotlight on road safety and on us as road users. We may have been able to make more changes when we were first in turn, but in this case the changes concern ‘the ban on the use of electronic equipment, where equipment may interfere with driving’ and ‘the approval of the price of the use of exercise paths for mandatory training for heavy duty vehicles’. The changes come as a consequence of the technological development that has enabled us all to talk on the phone while we are driving a car. As drivers, we all have a responsibility. The car is a very good tool, but with no sense, the car can quickly become a dangerous weapon. As road users, all our attention must be focused on traffic and the traffic we are in. In the name of responsibility, we have to tolerate some restrictions when it comes to people and passengers. Of course, bans and bans are not popular. We all want freedom to travel wherever we want, and talk to whom we want while we drive, but our own freedom can quickly become the freedom of others if our attention is shifted from traffic and driving to looking for numbers until someone we would like to talk to, or for that matter just call. For a moment's inattentiveness can cause great harm to others and to ourselves. For this reason, the Committee, with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, has supported the Ministry's proposal to prohibit the use of electronic equipment in cars, where equipment may interfere with driving. The working party believes that when one knows that the use of a mobile phone while driving can lead to an increase in the risk of accidents, we cannot avoid imposing a ban. Traffic safety is important, and in order to prevent road accidents, nothing can be out of the question. The human tragedies of the traffic accidents we have witnessed in recent years should mean that we must do everything in our power to prevent such tragedies. Traffic accidents are also socially and economically reprehensible. The Ministry proposes that the regulation enter into force on 1 January 2000. The Workers' Party will strongly warn the Ministry – or I will not ask for – to introduce a ban with such a short deadline. The installation of a hand-held system in a car costs money and also takes time if a workshop is to carry out the installation. It is therefore necessary to give car owners time to arrange this in an appropriate way, and we recommend to the Ministry to extend the timeframe for the implementation of the scheme, so that people can have the necessary time for the changeover. The working party might consider postponing implementation by six months, e.g.: until 1 July 2000. With regard to the approval of the price for the use of training courses for the compulsory training of heavy duty vehicles, I would like to stress that heavy duty vehicles are involved in a very large number of road accidents. But here I would add that trucks are essentially not the ones that cause the accidents. Trucks are an important carrier, and the industry in the districts is completely dependent on the safe transport of goods and goods. Therefore, heavy-duty drivers have special responsibilities. Therefore, the authorities have also considered it necessary to provide drivers of heavy-duty vehicles with a special training scheme. Provision was therefore made for compulsory training in smooth driving for heavy duty vehicles to take driving licences for the first time in categories C, CE, D or DE in 1993. The working party wants to keep the course fee at a level that allows it to take this course as much as possible. The Ministry suggests in Ot.prp. No 85 that the participants in the course are only charged for expenditure related to smooth running training. I say of course, but I would like to quickly repeat that the department, before they wrote this, should check how the individual smooth lanes keep their accounts. The Ministry should have examined the expenditure involved to keep such pathways in operation. Without other revenues from other activities on these roads, it would be difficult to provide a qualified offer to drivers of heavy-duty vehicles. Perhaps it should be of interest to the Council of State to make a visit to these pathways. On my own account, I would recommend that the Department deal positively with motorsports, both for the purpose of training and as a preventive measure to teach young people driving skills and to provide the smooth lanes with a beloved additional income. This must, of course, be kept separate from the accounting for the compulsory course of smooth driving for heavy duty vehicles. I recommend the majority voting with some requests: the date of the introduction of the ban on the use of electronic equipment in motor vehicles, where the equipment may interfere with driving, is set to e.g. 1 July 2000. With regard to the approval of price for the use of exercise paths for mandatory training for heavy duty drivers, the price should be consistent with the actual costs of operating and maintaining the paths.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e146	Christian People's Party supports the Ministry of Transport's proposal for a new Section 23(b) of the Road Traffic Act, which provides the basis for the prohibition of the use of electronic equipment in motor vehicles where the equipment may interfere with the driver. For the Christian People's Party, the starting point for this is road safety. In order to avoid negligence in traffic, which in turn poses a risk of accidents, it is important that drivers keep their attention focused on driving the car and not doing other things at the same time. The Christian People's Party will stress that this is not just about handheld mobile phones, although this is given specific mention in Ot.prp. No 85. The development is moving towards an increasingly electronic technology being made available in motor vehicles. These are equipment which is not necessarily required or directly related to the driving itself. Electronic mapping works do so, for example: the ability to operate schedules during driving. Wireless telephony allows the driver to send faxes from the driver’s seat during driving. The use of this additional equipment helps to remove the attention from the driver’s main task in traffic, with a risk to both themselves and others. The Christian People's Party therefore considers it important to provide a basis for prohibiting various types of electronic equipment in a car that could disturb the driver while driving. On behalf of the Ministry of Transport, the Institute has carried out a study on the importance of mobile telephones for road safety. This report concludes that mobile phone use during driving leads to a certain increase in accident risk. The Christian People's Party is on the verge that the Ministry of Transport, with this change in law, wants primarily to prohibit the use of handheld mobile phones. We support this, but will refer to the report of the Transport Economics Institute, which does not reveal any differences in accident risk associated with the use of handheld mobile phones and mobile phones in general. So it looks like it's the cell phone call itself that takes some of the attention away from traffic. I think most of us who drive a car, and sometimes also take a phone, have noticed that you lose some of the attention about what is most important when driving a car. The Christian People's Party will therefore be critically following developments, both in traffic and technology, so that the use of electronic equipment in cars does not increase accident rates on Norwegian roads. I also believe that such a ban will have a pedagogical effect and underline the danger that is really associated with such mobile phone use. For those who now have mobile phones, both one and two — especially the coin of their youth — a ban can have a educational effect by showing that there is actually a danger of such use. Then I have a question to the representative Eirin Fallet about where in the setting it was written about this with a postponement until 1 July, which is the request, correctly, from the representative Fallet. I have to point out to you this request that it is actually not a human right to use a mobile phone in a car. If you want to use a mobile phone in a car, you have the opportunity, when you have a mobile phone, to stop the car along the road and take the phone that you have to pick up. So I can't believe that there might be any reason to postpone the implementation of this important road safety issue for six months. It has been advertised quite early, so we should support this and get to it as soon as possible. Christian People's Party also supports the Ministry of Transport's proposal for Section 28 new second paragraph, which provides the basis for the approval of the price for the use of exercise paths for mandatory training for the driver of heavy goods vehicles. Our main concern in this case is the consideration of a fair price for participants in compulsory smooth driving training courses. In several places, activities other than smooth driving are carried out on these paths. Such operations may pose a certain economic risk to installations. The Christian People's Party sees it as important that participants in the smooth driving training are not charged for this, but only have to pay for expenses related to the implementation of the course itself. The Christian People's Party therefore welcomes the fact that the Ministry of Transport will approve the prices for the use of training courses for smooth driving. On this basis, we support the proposals for a new Section 23(b) and Section 28 of the second paragraph of the Road Traffic Act.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e165	It will always be important to pay particular attention to measures that can help improve road safety. Road safety depends on many factors, such as: standard on roads and traffic loads. However, other factors may also have a significant impact on road safety, including: that the driver is engaged in tasks other than driving the motor vehicle, such as: use of a part of electronic equipment. Developments are in the direction of ever-new types of electronic equipment being made available for use in motor vehicles. There is every reason to believe that these developments will only continue. The more electronic equipment that becomes available for use in motor vehicles, the more this will help to remove the attention from the driving function and traffic situation itself. When the motor vehicle driver is busy with tasks other than running tasks, this will undoubtedly reduce the attention of drivers and thus increase the risk of accidents. The Transport Economic Institute has also pointed out that, for example: handheld mobile phone while running leads to increased risk of accidents. The centre party therefore considers it natural and necessary that once the use of mobile telephones, including in motor vehicles, has reached its present level, a ban on the use of handheld mobile phones should be imposed when driving a motor vehicle. We therefore support the fact that regulations are set in line with this. We are also aware that the wording of Section 23(b) will make it possible to regulate the use of electronic equipment other than the mobile phone by drivers. But also with this opening, the Central Party will join the Ministry's proposal. Finally, a few comments on a new second phase of the Road Traffic Act § 28 that the Department can provide more detailed rules on the approval of the price for the use of training courses for compulsory training for drivers of heavy goods vehicles. It is necessary to ensure that elephants who are required to undertake compulsory training receive as low expenditure as possible. This must also be only expenditure directly related to smooth running training. It is natural that the department has a responsibility for this, and the Central Party supports the Ministry's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e180	The government attaches great importance to reducing the number of fatalities and serious injuries in traffic. As part of this work, we will, as you know, draw up a national road safety plan in connection with the national transport plan submitted in spring 2000. In today’s proposal, there is also a desire to achieve a focus on accident reduction, in this case by regulating the use of electronic equipment – primarily handheld mobile phones – while driving a motor vehicle. It is with satisfaction that I have noted that the Government has the agreement of the clear majority of the Committee that there is a need to lay down specific rules for the use of electronic equipment in motor vehicles where this may interfere with driving and lead to a reduction in road safety. Such rules are in addition to the general care rule in Section 3 of the Road Traffic Act. New types of electronic equipment are still being made available for use in motor vehicles, without that equipment being linked to, or required in relation to, the primary function of the motor vehicle as a means of transport. This includes technologically advanced equipment such as mobile phone, fax, electronic information systems, maps and timetables. The government sees in this development a risk of reduced care being taken by the driver in relation to what is required in the driving function itself and against traffic elsewhere, and thus also an increased accident risk. It is therefore important, in the interests of road safety, to ensure the right to regulate the use of electronic equipment in motor vehicles in the light of technological developments. This is the background to the proposal for a new Section 23(b) of the Road Traffic Act that will empower the Ministry of Transport to lay down detailed rules on the prohibition of the use of such equipment, where this is appropriate to disturb the driver. In this context, it is particularly desirable to be able to regulate the use of hand-held mobile phones by drivers while driving. A number of European countries, such as the United States and Japan, have been reported to be among the most vulnerable. Italy, Switzerland, France, Austria, Spain and Portugal have introduced different legal restrictions on the use of mobile phones in motor vehicles. I can also mention that a ban on the driver using hand-held mobile phones while driving was introduced in Denmark from 1 July 1998. In view of the increased accident risk of using a mobile phone while driving, combined with the strong increase in the number of mobile phones, I have therefore concluded that the use of a handheld mobile phone while driving should be prohibited. Such a ban will also have a pedagogical effect and underlines the risks associated with such mobile phone use. The prohibition would be important even if there were to be a smaller number of accidents that can be traced directly to mobile telephony and which would thus be avoided because of the ban. In line with this and on the basis of the new Section 23(b), the Ministry of Transport will provide for a ban on the use of hand-held mobile telephones by drivers while driving. Because it is a regulation of importance for private and public business, it makes sense to operate with a certain transitional period before the regulation enters into force. Therefore, in the period leading up to the entry into force of the ban, drivers, police and industries related to the sale and production of mobile equipment will have the opportunity to adapt to the new ban. I am therefore aiming for the regulation to come into force from 15 March 2000. For the sake of order, I would like to stress that it is only the driver's use of a handheld mobile phone while driving that will be regulated. Of course, if the motor vehicle is stationary, the driver could also legally use a hand-held mobile phone. The use of mobile telephones by passengers will also not be covered by the regulation. In the same proposition, the Government also promotes proposals for the approval of the price for the use of training courses for the compulsory training of heavy duty vehicles, for example. to ensure that students only pay for expenditure related to this training and therefore propose a new second paragraph of Section 28 of the Road Traffic Act. Smooth driving training courses are compulsory for persons who are required to take driving licences for the first time in categories C, CE, D or DE. The scheme currently applies to candidates from 14 of the country's counties, and smooth lanes are established in Våler, Kristiansand and Lenvik. Government grants have been granted for the construction of all railway installations. The government is aware of the fact that activities other than those required for the smooth running of heavy-duty vehicles are also taking place, which we are in favour of, because this can provide both alternative revenues and better use of the capacity of the railway. However, if these activities become unprofitable, they could adversely affect the overall economy of the railway system. In such a situation, there may be a risk that costs associated with activities other than compulsory training will be borne by course participants if price setting assumptions are not formalised.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e209	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e212	Kofoed-Larsen said so nicely that it was not a ‘human right’ to talk on the mobile phone. She said that you could drive aside and talk on the phone. But Kofoed-Larsen knows that's why we're dealing with this law change today. That's because people don't drive to the side. Had people done that, this debate would have been totally unnecessary. I suggested a postponement of the introduction date precisely because people are going to have to afford – so money – for the installation and get time to do this. When imposing bans or bans, it is very important that people themselves feel that this is a correct change in the law. That's the pedagogical part of it. That is why I had a wish that we should suggest a somewhat more loose framework for implementation, and I understand that the Minister for Transport is taking it back. Then I am very pleased with it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e219	First to the Eirin Fallet, which indicated that people had to feel that this was a proper ban. I actually don't think people, no matter how much time you spend implementing the ban, will be able to feel that this is right. This is a star example of a law that can testify that this house sometimes has too little to do. It is not that there is danger only associated with the use of a mobile phone in a car. There may be innumerable other examples of interference by a driver. What about worried kids in the backseat? What about a disputed spouse next to him? What about food, drink, music facilities, where to replace CDs in cabins and weather? What about these beautiful Hers & Mauritz posters along the sick person as individuals – at least men – at times have been distracted? What about young, cute dicks in miniskirts on a beautiful summer day? Are you going to start banning all this because it might seem distracting to a driver? I believe that it is totally unimaginable what this house can make itself spend time banning. It's perhaps even more surprising that the Right, who claims to be a party that won't participate in too many laws and laws, supports this proposal. The party of progress stands alone to be against this. I just wanted to see how the police intend to enforce this ban. We now have mobile phones that are so small that they can be hidden inside the palm of the hand. Should the police then, in case of suspicion, if a driver sits and supports his hand to the ear, intervene and check if the driver actually had a cell phone inside his hand, or if he just leaned to the hand while he was sitting and driving a car? Because that's the reality; mobile phones have become so small. There must be a limit to the type of ban to be imposed and not least to oblige the police to follow up on the follow-up. Or are you just going to check if it could have been possible that the driver had a cell phone in his hand? I think this testifies to the detailed regulation of another world, and we should perhaps have spent our time on something that was a little more important than banning the use of a handheld phone in a car.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e232	It is quite incredible to hear the spokeswoman of the Advance Party in a number of matters, Siv Jensen, who is now wondering what the Storting can ‘get to spend time on’, and refers to a matter of road safety and which is about to be banned, among other things. against the use of a handheld mobile phone in a car. In fact, I wonder what the Progress Party is doing in relation to road safety. I think most of us, including the Advance Party, hopefully, are concerned about bringing down the number of accidents on the roads. This is actually an area we can do something concrete about, an area where it turns out it's actually possible to do something. I think that most of us who drive a car, and who sometimes talk on the phone and see how busy we are in relation to what we are really doing, namely driving a car, realize that this is something that can cause traffic accidents. That is why I am very pleased that the majority of the committee, except for the Progress Party, is in favour of having this basis for a ban on the use of electronic equipment in motor vehicles. Since the representative Siv Jensen also mentioned other electronic equipment, it is simply to say that the same home is actually also on electronic equipment that can come. There's a tearing trend in this area, and here it's about doing it in advance, so that one has the opportunity to look at what it is that takes away our attention from driving, and what it's important to take into account prohibitions that can help reduce accident rates quite strongly. That's what most of us are concerned about, that's what we have vision of: zero killed, or badly injured in traffic. And this is actually an important term in such a goal. I would like the Progress Party to be part of such a vision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e244	I need to stress that the ban applies to the driver's use of a mobile phone while driving. This is not about the use of a mobile phone in the car in general. I am therefore concerned, knowing from a number of studies that this leads to traffic disruptions, that leads to traffic accidents – for me, one is killed too much – that we are minimizing this, or that outside this house we ridicule limited attempts we make in the name of road safety. Of course, we want to use the home that the law gives, with all sorts of reason. But it's not, as others in this room have said, of any importance what comes into fines. My hope is that there will be zero dollars because there will be no need to fine anyone. That is the road safety objective. And then I hope that exactly this prohibition, these regulations, will make the death statistics better, if it had to be with just one, then that's the sense of the law decision that's being taken today in Odelstinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e251	There is no such thing as someone who is not concerned about reducing the number of fatal accidents or the number of road accidents. Of course, one fatal accident is too much. Of course, we do not want the road accident victims to be too many. But we already have in the law a section 3 that provides rules of care for drivers. Yes, care means that when driving a car, you have a responsibility to be aware of what you are doing, not to be distracted by a number of disturbing elements in the traffic. It should in itself be a good enough regulation and a good enough responsibility for the driver. It had kept, in relation to a detailed regulation by Stortinget. But if the aim is to limit the number of accidents, which I fully agree with, why have the ban on heavy tyres been introduced, for example, which will obviously be much, much more important than limiting the number of accidents in traffic? But heavy tyres are not to be fitted, because then environmental concerns come before the need to combat fatal accidents or road damage. So this is more important than road safety. I think, with respect to reporting, that if you're going to put it to combat accidents in the high-seat, you have to do it completely and not have substitutive arguments when it's suddenly environmental considerations that are important. The care paragraph regulates this, so every driver is obliged to have control of the vehicle he is driving.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e258	There were violent dimensions The Progress Party wants to give this proposal that it will be mandatory to install its fixed cell phone if you call for death and life when driving a car. First of all to Siv Jensen: As far as I know, there is no ban on heavy tyres anywhere. Nor is it the case that all drivers are now required to install a fixed mobile phone in their car. However, if you are going to call and talk on the phone while driving a car, the phone must be fixed. There should be little reason to dispute that if you are sitting and driving a car and holding the mobile phone with one hand, you are a worse driver. If you're going to throw up or down, you're going to have one hand too small. I can't believe and understand anything but that at that moment you're a worse driver – in addition to, of course, using your concentration on things other than the traffic image. Then it is that something can control the Storting in law, other things I see it as very difficult to regulate in the form of law. Whether the phone is to be installed or not, it is important to regulate, whereas Siv Jensen's examples of troubled kids and quarrelling spouses are, in my view, very difficult for the Stortinget to regulate in the form of the law. At least I have no experience at all on the point that I can bring with me in the form of law, or perhaps make a private bill on it. In relation to the issue of road traffic care paragraph: Yes, it is true that every driver is obliged under road traffic legislation to behave with due regard, accountability and caution in traffic. It will, of course, be tried in the event of an accident if the driver concerned has behaved contrary to current road traffic legislation. But the point here is to avoid road accidents, and we will avoid having to test whether a driver has behaved contrary to the current legislation. So we want to make it clear that if you have to call while driving a car, you have to install the fixed phone. It's not worse. In countries by country in Europe, restrictions have been imposed on exactly the same. Denmark has imposed a total ban on handheld mobile phones, as we are now doing in Norway. This is not a major issue for the majority, but it is the Progress Party that has made this a major issue here today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e273	Today's pedagogical decision is the most important, which can be achieved as a result of the decision, is important for those at risk of road accidents. Paragraph 3, the care paragraph to which reference is made several times, is a paragraph which is mainly enforced afterwards. Paragraph 23b, which we are dealing with today, is a paragraph that allows for a prohibition in advance, so that the driver knows what he has to do with, and that in that case this is a prohibition that will be enforced. With regard to peak tyre charges, it has become widely understood that there is a ban in Norway. There is no such prohibition. There is no ban on heavy tyres in Norway. But this is based on the good old model of the Progress Party that polluter pays. Those who pollute through the use of tipping tyres shall also pay a fee for the pollution. In other words, we have followed the whole process of thinking of the Advancement Party as far as I can see. However, such decisions have been taken locally. It is Oslo, Bergen and other cities that have to decide whether they want to practice it. The home meal has been provided, but the practice is decided locally.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e284	I think it is a little sad that every time we have a debate on transport, it should be about bans, more money collection and a more acidic existence for the country's drivers. Should it not soon be a government or government task to come back to this room with a long-term strategy for expanding the road network in Norway in order to improve the transport of drivers and businesses, instead of getting this with heavy duty tyres and mobile phone bans? There are now several reports in the newspapers that we are going to get a running-time charge, we are going to get increased toll charges with several road installations – everything is going on negatively, to take the driving lists as much as possible. When are we going to have a long-term strategy? Other European countries have a long-term strategy for the development of their road network. So here we are going to have long debates on whether to charge people 500 kroner or 300 kroner – or whatever – when they hold a cell phone up in front of their ears. I would like to refer to a statistics both in the NRK yesterday and in the evening post earlier: it is 20 times as dangerous to argue with the wife or the kids as to have a conversation on the mobile phone. Do you want to ban having kids and wives? Do you want to charge to have them in the car? It is much more dangerous to drive and punch into the CD or radio in the car. You don't say anything about that. The statistics clearly show that it is ten times more dangerous. At the bottom of the statistics is the cell phone. But it's nice to take, because here you can just start the UP, and then it's $500 every time you see it holding up. Finally, the representative Myrli, who was very concerned that it was so difficult to keep the mobile phone and gearing at the same time. Then the representative should buy himself an automatic car, or then he gets to drive aside and pick up his phones there, instead of taking the cars on any occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e293	Let me remind the representative Thore Aksel Nistad that what he is asking for is exactly what the government comes to the Stortinget at the end of March, that is, a holistic thinking in terms of the road sector, the railway sector, the air side and the sea side. For the first time in history, we're going to present a national transport plan, and the goal is still to get it presented at the end of March. Then I repeat my hope: I hope we get zero income from the ban on using a handheld mobile phone when driving a car, because there is no need to fine anyone. I hope that the cities that charge heavy duty can cancel it more or less in a couple of years, when the target of 80 pst. peak-free tyres have been reached. Those who want to keep driving on high tires have occasion to do so, and they pay a lot of dollars to do so, for the sake of pollution. But to present this proposal and some other proposals that are deliberately negative to society or in relation to the environment or to motorists, in my view, is wrong, very wrong, because it is the opposite angle that is always at the root, namely to secure life, to save lives, to avoid road accidents and to save health and the environment. If we want to do this pedagogically correctly, as many have said today, we are also able to get myself as a driver and others as drivers to understand that there is reason behind the decision of the Stortinget and Odelstinget in connection with these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e300	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 109]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e314	I doubt that the commitment to this matter is going to be as great as it was in the previous one. I will briefly explain the position of the Financial Committee. This adjustment concerns the allocation of expenditure between the State and the oil companies related to the removal of devices on the continental shelf. Such costs are not deductible as part of the ordinary tax system. Therefore, companies receive grants directly from the country for their share of the costs. This is a practice laid down in the Law of 1986. The legal text that Odelstinget is dealing with today refers to necessary changes, as the old legislation was inadequate in important areas – in addition, it is necessary to adapt the removal cost law to new rules of the petroleum law. The Ministry of Finance set up a working group in 1995 to review the necessary changes, and the Ministry has largely followed up the recommendations of the working group. The Committee is unanimous at all points in the vote, as close as one, where the Progress Party has an aberrant proposal, which I suppose will be justified by the minority. The allocation of costs of removing devices is based on a distribution formula between companies and the country. The purpose of the formula is to ensure an overall acceptable distribution of costs. The general rule is that companies cannot receive grants that amount to exceed previously paid taxes less subsidies previously received. Any excess grant shall be set off against future tax payable. In some specific cases, the general rule may be waived, as the formula may seem highly unfair. The Committee agrees with the Ministry's assessment and legislative proposals on these issues. The companies are guaranteed a minimum grant rate equal to the tax rate of 28 p.m., further stencil criteria for when the exemptions are to be applied give less arbitraryness than the discretionary practice of the present law. Furthermore, the Committee has joined the department's assessments of who is ultimately responsible for the removal of the devices and that it is the holding at the time of the removal, which is to be taken into account. Furthermore, the Committee considers that the Ministry of Oil and Energy shall have the ultimate competence and authority in relation to what is considered as removal expenditure under this Act. In the Committee's view, it would not be appropriate to set up a new body for this, even if it had been discussed in the working group and, of course, in the ministry. With this brief review of the changes in the law on removal costs, I recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e335	I will just briefly address the alternative proposal of Section 6 of the Advance Party, which we have promoted because we believe that the proposal of the Department, to which the majority now subscribes, will exacerbate the fiscal framework conditions of the oil companies. We also believe that it is unreasonable the way the legislation is now structured after this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e340	Siv Jensen has taken up the proposal she referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 109]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e356	Today, the budget deals with the financial committee's position on the new bill on payment systems, etc. The law includes systems for the settlement, settlement and transfer of money between banks — internal banking systems. The proposal is based on the Banking Law Commission's investigation No. 3 «Payment systems, etc.» printed as NOU 1996:24. There is currently no separate legal regulation of payment systems in Norway. Payment systems are governed mainly by agreements between the participants in the payment systems. The two banking associations – the Norwegian Banking Association and the Savings Bank Association in Norway – have had a central position both in the development of today’s payment systems and in the establishment of the Systemic Agreement. Today’s contract-based systems have largely worked satisfactorily, and the agreements between the participants in the systems will remain essential and central to the construction and operation of the payment systems. Thus, the proposal for legislation in this area does not mean that it is intended to replace today's self-regulation. The new legislation shall complement today’s contract-based systems. Payment systems constitute a complex and complex area in which rapid development takes place. In recent years, increasing attention has been paid to the risks of the payment system, in particular with regard to the clearing and settlement of the internal banking systems. Internal banking systems are an important part of the financial system and, therefore, the proper functioning of the systems is of social importance. In particular, it is important that liquidity or soundness problems of individual institutions in the system do not reproduce further to other actors or to the financial market in general. For payment service systems, it is central that the systems are set up and operated in such a way as to ensure the safe and efficient payment and the rational and coordinated execution of payment services. The opinion of the Committee is unanimous, with the exception of two questions. This concerns the possibility for the Bank of Norway to separate parts of its business into its own companies, in particular the production of banknotes and coins. The proposal also allows the production of banknotes and coins outside the Bank of Norway. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, is in favour of the proposal provided that the Bank of Norway is aiming at the introduction of the banknote printing and the Royal Coin External Assignment. The members of the Committee of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left do not wish to place this production outside the Bank of Norway and therefore oppose the proposal. The second question concerns whether Norway’s Bank can charge for cash payment. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Socialist Left, requests that the Storting should be properly presented to the issue of pricing the handling of cash. It is therefore assumed that the fee will not be imposed without consulting the Stortinget. It is of concern if the proposal results in banks charging for withdrawals from their own accounts. On the other hand, cash withdrawals may appear unreasonable if they are the only non-fee service. These are issues that politicians need to consider in more detail. The minority of the Committee, the member of the Socialist Left Party, considers the cash circulation of the Bank of Norway to be a public responsibility and a public service that Norway’s Bank is obliged to offer free of charge. This member therefore asks the Government to propose a legislative amendment which would mean that Norway’s Bank could not pay for the services provided by the Bank in connection with the treatment and redistribution of banknotes and coins in society. The third theme I want to address is the consideration of the freedom of banking customers to choose banking services, their ownership of their own data and control of their financial transactions across banks and financial institutions. In this context, it should be considered to establish a common standard for the electronic payment services of banks aimed at banking customers. The Committee asks the Ministry to take these issues into account in the follow-up to the Banking Law Commission’s investigations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e379	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e382	What's wrong with this setting is, you have to change the central bank law. The government joins with the Right and the Advance Party in order to change the laws so that one can get a competitive start, opportunities to create a non-Noregs Bank company for printing seats and embossing coins. The majority agree with this proposal, under the authority of Norway Bank, to provide the seat printing company and the Royal Coin External Assignment. Then my question is: is there any task that Norway Bank has today in this area, which they have not assigned to the printing company and to the Royal Coin? And what potential does Norway Bank have to carry out these external tasks? I thought that they added to the seat printing company and now at Kongsberg they need to know what the plurals mean they're going to get from duties. Because before they have something concrete about it, they have created an uncertain situation here that could have been a very good thing to avoid. There is no need to change this law. So my question is, what are the tasks involved, and what does Norway Bank have the opportunity to do?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e391	I just want to repeat and clarify what is in the setting: ‘The majority join the proposal subject to Norway’s Bank’s intention to provide the banknote printing and the Royal Coin External Assignment.’ The point here is that this approach actually ensures jobs in the Bank of Norway – unlike what I have understood has been done in Sweden, where no such action has been taken. In fact, it would have been necessary to reduce the number of Norwegian banks.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e401	I am aware that the rapporteur on the matter, Terje Johansen, is absent, and that the representative Karlstrøm has stepped into his place, and therefore it may be difficult to ask very precise questions and expect to get a very precise answer. However, let me say the following: What is now happening to the printing house, and what is happening to the Royal Coin, is that you are actually going to privatize them. So you have to separate them as separate units and let them fight in a market of wolves, without regard to the actual output of these two businesses. What they produce is essentially passports and money. The Royal Coin produces what we have of coins in our pockets, and, of course, memory medals and whatever else it might be. In a normal civilised society, it is part of the public responsibility to take care, of course, that this type of production is subject to the strictest safety regulations, but also that this is not really a normal commercial mission. So it's part of the lifeblood of a civilised society that you make sure you have that kind of production under national control. So far it has been under the Bank of Norway. There has been an appropriate and sensible way to organise this, and it has, of course, also secured quality notes and coins for the Norwegian people. When I now notice that the central parties in this setting choose to go with the Right and the Advance Party, which, for ideological reasons at all times, want to compete or privatize state activities, I must allow myself to ask the representative Karlstrom if she has no ideological considerations about this, whether it is not that a small banknote printing in the cellar of Norway's Bank actually has a task in a civilised society, and whether not the Royal Coin of Kongsberg, which produces the coins in Mrs. Karlstroms and my pockets, is also part of what should be the responsibility of the public, instead of just saying that Norway's Bank should go out and shop 500-kronery bills here and thousands there and shop a fifty-piece where you had to get the cheapest. Doesn't the centre parties have a single ideological orientation related to such an important national issue?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e410	I see no ideological overtones in this. In that case, I believe you see ghosts by daylight day. What's the point of this is to give the Bank of Norway an opportunity. And as I said in the previous line, it is to be able to take external orders to give Norway's Bank an opportunity. The Bank of Norway may decide, where appropriate, whether to produce banknotes other than those of the Bank. But it's pretty complicated. It's a democratic procedure that makes it not so easy for the bank to do it. In that case, a decision to be taken by the Governing Council shall be taken. But the main point of this is to get external missions and actually strengthen the Bank of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e419	If you want to get external jobs, you do not need to change the central bank law. So there has to be an error interpretation here. An exceptionally good external job can be done. But today's question is whether to free yourself from today's mission, that is, by pressing seats and embossing coins. It was said here that it is to secure the jobs, but in fact there is no one in these environments who feels that changing this promise secures the jobs. A person feels that a precisely endangers these workplaces, which of course are not safe from numbers, but at least they have been safe from having a state task, from clicking seats and embossing coins. Today creates an uncertain around it. I have to say, based on an ideological notion of what a country is going to do in relation to the production of money, I think that country is poor that can't produce its own money. It is not Norway. I would hope that the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left could have allied themselves with the Workers' Party and SV in this matter. Then we wouldn't have thought to create it uncertain.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e426	I just have to show you what I said earlier. This is an opening for an additional task for the Bank of Norway, to strengthen the Bank and not to remove tasks from it. I have the confidence in the Norwegian bank board that they will continue to be responsible for printing Norwegian coins. Such patriotism is probably once again the rule of the Bank of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e431	It is obvious that the representative Karlstrøm is not particularly comfortable with the situation she has been in. I understand that so far, because neither has she the authority to get into the matter thoroughly enough. It gives me an opportunity to say that it's possible for the center parties here in the hall to choose to go against that paragraph change, because there must obviously be a couple of misunderstandings. The first misunderstanding is this: the Norwegian Bank’s banknote printing industry and the Royal Coin have at any time the opportunity to go out and collect external orders, of course in competition with others if appropriate. And they do, I understand, at times. That is not the point, nor is it the core task of the Bank of Norway or the Royal Coin. The core task is to produce notes and coins for the Norwegian community and for the needs of the ordinary consumer. What you're going to do here is you're going to put this in tender. It is also said that Norway’s Bank should be given a kind of overall responsibility for this, but they already have that authority today, except that it allows a very special authority, namely that only those who have the opportunity to produce the coin of the Norwegian community should have. So I find it very strange that the center parties can't see that this has an ideological overtone, because that's what ideology is. This is actually about the tasks a civilised society should perform. I must say my heart's agreement with the representative of Frøiland, who says that we are a poor country if we are not able to produce our own coins or our own notes. The printing of the banknote has already lost the production of stamps. It is open to tender and that type of production is no longer carried out in Norway. I believe that it should be a public task to have the primary responsibility for this. My impression is that the centre parties have been misguided by the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Norway. My heartfelt appeal is that it is still possible through today's debate to say that perhaps you were wrong. In any case, it may be possible to ask for a postponement of the issue to be carefully assessed, as it is obvious that some have not sufficiently addressed the implications of this decision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e442	It does little to help SV turn the problem on his head. I like this perfectly in the situation of defending this, because I believe this is part of ensuring the operation of the Bank of Norway. It is clear from the document we have in front of us here that Norway’s Bank can decide whether to produce notes and coins other than the bank. It doesn't say "shell". I trust that the Norwegian Bank's Board of Directors will assess this in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e450	It becomes somewhat unclear what is really the purpose of the centre and the right side of changing Section 13 when the representative Karlstrøm states that the intention is to secure the operation of the Bank of Norway. It is quite clear that when the majority here say that they join the proposal on condition that the Bank of Norway aims to deliver the banknote printing and the Royal Coin External Assignment, it is unnecessary, for that reason the Royal Coin and the banknote printing already have today. They've made use of that possibility. As far as I know, it is at least public that we have printed either coins or notes for the Arab Emirates, and that we have also had other external missions in the Royal Coin earlier. So it's completely unnecessary to change the law. What's new here is that they say that Norway's Bank may not use these businesses to produce Norwegian coins. And as others have said, Norway must be poor if we are not to afford to keep up with the certainty of producing our own notes and coins. So the question to the representative Karlstrøm is then: Why in the world must Section 13 be changed if the purpose is not, as it is heard from her response, that the production should be outsourced? If, as they have done so far, the representative Karlstrøm has confidence that Norway’s Bank will use its own companies, why should the legal text be changed in the world?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e459	I just have to note that I look a little different at this than the representative Andersen. I believe that the grips we are doing here provide a new opportunity for several external missions to the Bank of Norway. At the same time, there is also an opening in assessing currency and coin production in another way. But here I just have to say again that I have confidence in Norway's Bank's assessment at this point. And if I don't remember completely wrong, some other countries also have similar organization of this without it having led to the coin production going out of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e466	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e469	Today, we have no special law regulating payment systems. What regulates payment systems are essentially agreements between those who participate, and here both the Banking Association and the Savings Bank Association have had a central position in the development of the system that we have today. The legislative proposal is a follow-up to Commission Banking Law No. 3 on payment systems etc. The legislation is not intended to replace the self-regulation we now have, but is more a complement to the contractual systems we have. Safe and efficient transfer of payments and rational and co-ordinated execution are covered, and the payment services are secured, which is essential in this law. Payment systems are complicated, and it's an area where development takes place very quickly. To a large extent, the Committee agrees with the legislative proposal, but in two important areas, there is a need for some comments, and for the first point 5 on changes in central bank law, the separation of parts of Norway's operations from its own companies. Today, it's Norway Bank that produces seats and coins. The Ministry now believes that the law should be amended, so that production can be carried out outside the country of Norway, even if one assumes that the bank will carry out the necessary monitoring of production. As has been said here, Norway's Bank can decide that it is still going to happen as it is today, and then at least there is no reason to change the law. The point here is that you want to do something that you haven't done today, that is, to put this out of competition. Once again, I want to state that there is no inability and no desire for an outside job to be able to do, that's not why we're changing the law, it can do a good job with the laws that we have today. Norwegian seat production has long traditions. The printing industry is an advanced printing company in the case of security, it has built up valuable special skills, and there is a risk that the professional environment may be lost if the printing industry disappears. When the Government today receives support from the Progress Party and the Right to change the laws, to allow Norway Bank to place the production of seats and coins in other companies or to create its own companies to produce seats and coins, it may again be the first step towards the deflagration of money production. And why is it so important for the Government to change this law? In the Labour Party, we think it's going to be very bad with the country's economy if we don't print our own seats and shape our own coins. Producing money is a task for Norway Bank, we think both from the Labour Party and SV's side. If the seat printing company is separated to compete in the commercial market, this could have serious consequences for seat production. And think of the Royal Coin of Kongsberg, which is a name that everyone has a relationship with in Norway, because one has a long tradition. I thought we should stick to the tradition of producing our money. And it's actually important, we thought, that it's a governmental task to produce money. Per Olaf Lundtigen from the Center Party has been busy producing washing machines here in the country. I think we're bad at that. But we're very good at producing coins and printing seats, and I thought we could say that we're still going to do it state-wide. In several rounds before, Norway’s Bank has been trying to get the Ministry to change its laws. We've heard of that. But from the Labour Party's point of view, we have never made such a change in law, because we have been aware that it was important both to take care of the skills and to say no to that from abroad. So it had to be a central finance minister to open up competition and possibilities for the flagging of our seats and the embossing of our coins. Placing these services to the free market will provide minimum foresight to Norway Bank, but will create maximum security. May I remind you that the seat printing company has already lost the Norwegian stamp production. On the basis of narrow economic assessments, it was moved abroad, and I ask that this should not happen to our money production. We've had a round in relation to changing the law in the line change before, which I shouldn't go further, because there was no explanation. I just want to make it absolutely clear that it is possible to deliver the seat printing company and the Royal Coin external job. It has one today, one doesn't have to change the laws relative to it. The second comment relates to the charge for cash payment, which is a matter that the Ministry has not included in this bill, but which has nevertheless been mentioned. I just want to clarify what is in the setting, that Norway Bank should give a legal assessment of the question of pricing the bank's services in cash management. We have received a letter that tells us that Norway Bank has made these assessments, but the majority in the committee, all except SV, have noticed that before one goes to the step to do this, the matter has to come back to Stortinget. I want to repeat that once again, because although we have seen that Norway Bank has made its legal assessments, the Stortinget has not gone into it, and we have also received letters from the Minister of Finance where he opens to come back again. For the third time, I would like to stress that this must happen, and I would also ask that it be confirmed by the Minister of Finance, so that the Stortinget does not need to implement the legislative changes proposed by SV, because it should come from the Minister of Finance, so that we can be sure that it has also been assessed in the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e495	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e498	This matter has obviously triggered strong feelings between the centre and the Workers' Party. We'll record that. We have a slightly more relaxed relationship with just who is going to produce coins and banknotes. However, we do not have a relaxed relationship with security related to this, and it is still Norway’s Bank, as it also shows, that is to supervise the production required. The representative of Frøiland was concerned that Norway's Bank today is very good at producing coins. If the Bank of Norway is very good at producing coins, I do not understand what the representative of Frøiland is so afraid if you were to put out this business and several Norwegian companies would have the opportunity to bid for it to produce coins and notes. If you're good enough, you don't have anything to fear either. In fact, it can also be useful to test whether the prices of its production are correct in relation to the market. I also noticed that the representative Frøiland said that we would be a poor country if we could not produce our own money. Now I actually think that the SV and the Workers' Party are quite poor on ideology if this is the big ideological issue, but it's not given if you post the production of coins and banknotes, that there will be some foreign printers that are running a contract like this ashore. Indeed, in the Norwegian market too, there are very many skilled operators who could have intended to submit tenders for this and use this as a starting point to also win out markets. The last thing I actually thought was that Frøiland's representative had a certain sense of it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e507	I understand that the Right is relaxed about this. Only enough money is being printed up – I have the impression – can be relaxed. But it's also important, we think, who does it. And there's no doubt that there should be certainty attached to this. It's a premise. I actually mean that it is documented over a long time that Norway Bank is very good at this. And I can't figure out what the purpose is, because we think it's a state task to print money. And Noregs Bank can do that. This is not one of the major issues we deal with in the overarching ideological debates, but it is one of the important issues. It is important that those who have been involved and built up the competence around this can still hold on to it, and I do not believe that there are so many skilled actors in Norway who want to appreciate this. This could be a good thing, for example. to list them. I only mention what happened to the stamp production, it was not the skilled Norwegian actors who got it, it disappeared. And we're not a poor country. That's why we should print our money ourselves. But I say that the country that doesn't do it itself should be poor, and that's not us. That is why we do not have to take the debate on it. We can't change the laws, of course they can get a chance. It must always be more efficient, and we have listened to the number of adjustments to be reduced, both in the seat printing industry and in Kongsberg. It's not like those who work there, nor is Norway Bank concerned that it should be efficient, that it should be produced at least cost. But if you don't open it to change the laws so that all this goes out of the country, it can be a good idea.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e514	It is reasonably obvious that the Labour Party and the SV are trying to make this an ideological debate, and I must honestly say that it reminds me more of a little fossilized old communism than the will to be rational also in relation to how the Bank of Norway is doing its business. The representative of Frøiland used from the pulpit here the example of the disappearance of stamp production. Yes, but we still have stamps! And it should perhaps be the most important thing, to make sure that the supply of different goods and services is there, not necessarily who produces them. I want to ask Frøiland a little bit about it: why is it so important who produces notes and coins? I would think it was important to have a supervision that made sure that the production was as it was supposed to be, and that the services or goods were as they were supposed to be, not necessarily who was in charge of the execution of the production. Furthermore, the representative of Frøiland said that this would lead to maximum uncertainty and minimum revenues for the Bank of Norway. What kind of insecurity is the representative of Frøiland referring to? Uncertainty about what, or uncertainty about who, and why is this so important when we see in other competitive launching debates that the Workers' Party is involved? When it comes to putting out laundry services, etc., they devalue the ideological aspects of it and say it's all right. There is no longer any major problem with the Workers' Party. And in some other areas it's okay. But when it comes to currency and coin production, yes, you raise yourself to the old heights and make it a major ideological debate. I want to know why.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e523	No, it's clear that when you don't see the difference between putting out laundry and cleaning and printing money, I don't take on the big task of talking about the ideological differences between the Labour Party and the Progress Party, but we from the Labour Party's side think there are very big differences there. When it comes to insecurity, I think I've clearly stated that it was about the additions and competences that we've built up in Norway. I don't go around thinking that we don't get money here in this country because if we don't print them in Norway. I also know that we have a stamp, but there are some differences that we thought it was important to keep track of. It's a long story we've built up our money production, both at Kongsberg and at the headquarters, and we think that's a state task. That's the way it is for the Workers' Party. I don't really expect the Progress Party to understand this, but we're seeing a difference between printing money in Norway and postponing the Warnrit Services. And we're actually going to do that. And then it's just up to the Progress Party to tell them why they don't think there's any difference. That's why we think we should take care of the skills we have, and that there should not be any insecurity for them to add. Once this has worked very well for so many years, it is not necessary to change the promise. However, it is clear that enterprises can access new tasks and participate in and develop further.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e534	The representative Frøiland repeats that we are not a poor country. No, but we can quickly do that if there's this kind of argument that's going to lead the decisions we're going to make in the years to come, in relation to opening up competition and letting others go. The representative Frøiland actually went so far in his post that she admitted that there could be some profit, even though she thought it was minimal, in allowing others to participate in any competition for the production of notes and coins, and that's a good start. Then the question arises: if there is an initiative by the Bank of Norway, where under the strict safety requirements available, it is considered that there may be another appropriate and reasonable way of producing notes and coins, and that it implies a profit, will any profit be assessed against the highest judgements made by the Workers' Party in this case? I also think there are some mixed motifs from the Labour Party here. In fact, I think that we have good experience here in countries with also letting companies into competition in the production of both services and products. In fact, it was after we got competition on the Norwegian domestic market in the 1960s that we got the full industrial trip in Norway, because we have comparative advantage in our own domestic market. But I admit it's not about a sausage stall, it's about the production of notes and coins in Norway, so it's a matter of different balances. However, provided that it is clear in the Constitution that this can be done outside the Bank of Norway, that it is carried out under full security and that it can be done in a more reasonable way than today, this value must be set against, for example: to be able to use more in other areas that seem to be important.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e543	Actually, one could make this a debate between the Progress Party and the Right, because I think it's only those who are comfortable with this matter today. I think that because the center has not asked for a line on me, they don't feel any particular good about the amendment that is proposed. But I must say to the Right: Do not try to say that we are not concerned with both competition, competition and what has been done in relation to industry! The argument that's used here, does not go back to Børge Burnde's head. So there's a difference between some things like printing seats and embossing coins. That's where we think there's a big difference. And then we say that here we don't have to change the law, because it can take care of the way it is, not with the launching of competition, but by taking care of the things that go on efficiency, and the things that go on renewing, and then one has to have equipment. It's not like there's so many people here in this country who can compete on this track. That's why I think the result will be flagging out. But it is clear that here has a desire to keep this debate going with the Labour Party. I would like to go up and tell you again and again that there is a difference between things. We're opening up competition, we're opening up one to streamline, look at all possible areas quite concretely, but when it comes to printing and producing money, we actually think that there should be a government task ahead. We know that one has tried this in many rounds, but it never came to Stortinget before. I thought it was very good that it came, so we see the differences between the Right and the Advance Party and the Labour Party. So now the center - probably because they are block independent - has chosen to go to the Right and the Progress Party in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e553	With all due respect for the representative of Frøiland, it was not the Right and the Progress Party that launched this debate. This debate was launched in connection with the presentation of the case by the rapporteur, where it was made very clear that the possibility of postponing this part of the operation of the Bank of Norway was now to be opened up. I asked the representative of Frøiland a number of questions in my previous line that I have still not received an answer to. Because I hear the representative say that there is a big difference between who manufactures washing machines and who produces coins and notes, and I hear that she says that the Workers' Party sees the difference. I also hear that she says that the Workers' Party has now become very interested in putting out competition and improving efficiency, just not for coin production. Why not? I asked the same question instead: why is it either practical or ideological – what do I know – dividing lines between coin production and the production of washing machines or the production of cleaning services, hospital services or care services for the elderly? Why is the divorce going right there? What makes coin production so inconceivably special that it must be carried out alone by the Bank of Norway and cannot be put out of competition, when at the top of it all you know that supervision and strict regulation are a prerequisite for this? I have not received an answer to that, and I challenge the representative again: Why is that so? What is the big problem of the Workers' Party? Why should coin and banknote production not be competitive?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e560	It is right that the representative Jensen says that not even the Right Party and the Advance Party came to the conclusion that they should present this proposal before it came from the Government. So I asked Børge Brende in return if he could tell me about these Norwegian alternatives. I have not received an answer to that, because there is no Norwegian alternative today. I used my article to tell you why we think it's a government problem. I won't repeat that. If Siv Jensen did not listen, and will not see the difference between printing money and embossing coins and launching a laundry or sausage tub, I do not think it would be useful in two minutes from this talking room to find out what I was busy with in my article. So I'm not trying to do anything about it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e569	As we have said before, there are different things that characterize being a nation, among other things. that one has a currency. In this case, we have the unit heads in Norway. There are some people in this room who in the 1990s have seen to it that the situation is the same. What one in this case opens up after the government's proposal when it comes to producing this coin, this crown, is given the legal secret by central bank law. I also trust the procedure put in place here, with the main board of directors and representatives, to put this out, to others to do so, to be a co-owner in it – we have chosen both the board of directors and the representatives to deal with it. If you want to make use of this possibility, you'll find organs that the Storting – at least I – has great confidence in. This debate tempts me to raise a theoretical question. In Norway today, of course, we have the ability to press the coin unit heads. If the Workers' Party had got what they wanted in 1994, we might have had to print the Euro unit, so we had no heads to fight for today. My question to Ranveig Frøiland is: What would the Labour Party think about this question if the crown was being wound up, and it was the euro that would be the coin unit that would mark this nation?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e578	Earlier in a line change, the representative Karlstrøm made it a point, and now Jørgen Holte makes it a point that we trust the Board of Directors of Norway Bank. But we don't discuss trust. I trust them, that's not what's going on. Here it's about making a law change, and then we have to look away from this with confidence. Now there is a proposal for a change in the law that will allow you to print money abroad if you like. The trust of those on the board is quite ok. I don't need to say that I don't have it, I actually trust them. But we're not discussing that, we're discussing change of laws. I would like the representative, Jørgen Holte, to take the floor later today, to say that it is not so good for a person to put out the printing of money, and that he will ask the board of Norway Bank to wait for this to be done. That would have been settled on the basis of the debate that has now taken place. I don't expect one to vote against – until there's too much achievement in it – but at least one could say something about what one wanted, and not talk about trust, because it's completely irrelevant. Today we are discussing change in central bank law, not other hypothetical issues. That's what we have to stick to. We believe from the Labour Party and the SV side that it is not necessary to change the law that we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e590	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e593	It is said a lot wise and much not quite so wise here today. Let me first repeat to Siv Jensen, who, in a succession of lines here, performed to say that they wanted to mince their own coin and print their own notes, was «old communism». From my point of view, there is conservatism, that is the opposite, because it is simply about caring for some civil functions that I would believe conservatively thinking people always attach to the civilised state to take care of. So that's the opposite of old communism. On the contrary, it is healthy conservatism. So to the extent that I can appear as a credible spokesman for a conservative view, I would like to do so in this matter. Let me also just briefly say that bringing the euro into this discussion can of course be a funny point, but it obviously has nothing to do with the reality of the matter. What we are now discussing is a law related to the Bank of Norway that deals with the possibility of issuing notes and coins – that is, shopping services where they are the cheapest at all times. In another context, I could certainly have had fun at the Labour Party's expense in that way, but it is not relevant to this matter, so I will leave it. Let me also say that the debate shows that the centre parties in this case have not intervened in the matter at all and here appears to be a towing partner with civility, without any reflection whatsoever on what this matter is actually about. I have to say that I think is sad, because I actually mean, like the Workers' Party, that this question is about one thing. This is about having a Norwegian Bank that is responsible for and own production of banknotes and coins. They also have the opportunity to go out and collect assignments, insofar as other countries or other businesses want to outsource them. In fact, I think it's a national main issue. My call is still standing. I believe that the centre has not intervened in this matter. I don't think they've seen the consequences of the recommendation that comes from the Bank of Norway. My appeal to Minister of Finance Restad, who I hope is going to take the floor afterwards, is that he will look at the matter again. I encourage the matter to be sent back to the department for review. It's not as simple as anyone here later to think, that this should actually be a strengthening of the banknote printing industry in Norway's Bank. No new powers shall be conferred on them by these Decisions. On the contrary, they are deprived of their current authority. Let me also mention another point in the setting that has a certain interest, where SV has unfortunately remained alone. It is Norway’s Bank’s ability to charge fees for money management. It is a question that is kind of in the same street, that Norway’s Bank should behave like any other bank and thus also be able to price all of its services, even though Norway’s Bank is really the lifeblood of our entire funding system. My position on this is very clear: it is the task of the Bank of Norway to be able to accept coins and notes and thus ensure the functioning of the civil banking system. Fortunately, the majority are going in a direction that requires the Stortinget to take a decision on that question. So it's not up to the department alone, it's not up to the Norwegian Bank's central government alone to take that decision. The majority have asked that this matter come back to Stortinget. I am relatively satisfied with that, although I believe that the Storting should have put my foot down today. This means that my proposal, which is included in the vote, is withdrawn, because it may be misunderstood if that proposal was voted down. That means that I will strongly stress what the other one here has said, that this question is going back to the Stortinget. I do not know if the Minister of Finance has signed up, but I would like to reiterate my challenge to the Minister of Finance to comment on these issues, because I am quite convinced that Secretary-General Lundtigen and others in the Central Party have not seen this either. I also see that it's trying to slow down the ideological overtones. This is by no means an ideological debate; it is a debate along sound conservative principles.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e610	The President perceives that Øystein Djupedal, on behalf of SV, has drawn the proposal that is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e613	That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e618	I usually respect the majority position of a finance committee, and I would like to have a good basis for the positions that you put forward for Stortinget. But after what I have heard up to now of this debate, I am not convinced that something has gone into particular detail in the legislative amendment to Section 13 which is now to take place, because there has been no deepening by the majority of what they add to the comment that it is a prerequisite that the Bank of Norway aims to deliver the banknote printing and the Royal Coin External Assignment. As some have said, at least one could have made it visible, for example. postage stamp production, which is no longer carried out here in the country. However, this has not emerged in the debate. I must also say that the Right Representative Børge Burnde took lightly on it by comparing and putting one item up against the other. I actually thought that the Right as a value-conservative party would look at money production with a little more respect than they have done up to today. I actually thought that the Right was of the opinion that money production is absolutely part of Norway's pride when you look at both banknote and coin production, but it is clear that that scandal has fallen to the Right. So it's the question of why you raise yourself so much, as Siv Jensen said to the ideological heights. It actually has something to do with attitudes to do, Siv Jensen, and also with the signal effect of the kind of decision Stortinget here is about to do. Clearly, the Labour Party has expressed it, and I am firmly convinced that it is a reasonable attitude to say no to the amendment of Section 13. I have previously had this matter raised in a question-time question to the Council of State. Now I have registered that the Council of State has signed up to take the word. It will be interesting to hear what he puts in the assumptions the majority has made in its comment and how he will interpret the majority position. After all, it is the Council of State that is to administer the decision further, including to the Bank of Norway, as far as I understand the majority's comment. But I'm anxious to wait for what the Council of State says. And finally, I didn't think it was supposed to be a no-regier that was the one who was supposed to be tone-indicating in a matter like this, nor a central government council.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e633	Although there is one theme that to those degrees has shaped the debate and the lines so far, let me also say a little about the other that was in the odelstings proposition, which is mentioned in the setting. So the government came forward in Ot.prp. No 96 for 1998-99 proposal for a new bill on payment systems. This includes proposals for rules on interbank systems and payment service systems. The proposal for rules on interbank systems shall contribute to ensuring the financial stability of interbank systems, which is an important part of the financial system. Stability in these systems is important both for the financial sector and for the social economy in general. The proposal for rules on payment service systems shall contribute to ensuring the security and effectiveness of payment and to the rational and coordinated execution of payment services. The proposal also proposes some amendments to the Central Bank Act. It is proposed to provide open access to distinguishing parts of Norway’s Bank’s activities in its own companies. It is proposed to clarify the law in order to make it clear that Norway’s Bank can also conclude repurchase agreements with non-banks in its market operations. Finally, a provision is proposed to allow Norway’s Bank to participate in employers’ associations. I am pleased that the Committee has followed the Government's proposals on most of the points in the vote. I noticed that the committee asked the department to consider giving the Swedish Securities Commission a specific deadline to submit a statement on the issue of legal protection in the Swedish Securities Act § 5-3. I understand that Storting would like to have a quick answer to this question. However, I would like to point out that the Swedish Securities Commission is now in the final phase of its work. I would also like to point out that there is a need to see this specific legal protection issue in conjunction with the other legislative proposals in the vote. Therefore, I think it is most appropriate to wait for an overall adjustment from the sample. In order to address this issue more quickly, I propose that, when sending the sample’s referral to consultation, a shorter consultation period be set for this specific issue. The question could then be dealt with more quickly in the ministry, regardless of the treatment of the overall adjustment from the sample. In the proposal, the Government proposed, as mentioned in some amendments to the Central Bank Act, inter alia: Norway’s Bank shall be able to decide to produce notes and coins in agreement with the Bank. Furthermore, it is proposed that Norway’s Bank should be able to separate and own companies to produce banknotes and coins or to engage in other business activities. The majority of the Committee endorses the proposal. However, I have noticed that this connection takes place on condition that Norway's Bank aims to deliver the banknote printing and the Royal Coin External Assignment. I have also noticed that a minority in the Committee has not joined in the proposal on access to the separation of parts of Norway's Bank's business in separate companies owned by Norway's Bank in whole or in part. I would therefore like to show that the bill only allows for such separation. The legislative proposal does not provide any rules for this to be done, nor has it been decided whether it should be done. Furthermore, specific procedures have been proposed before any decision on such separation can be taken. The competence to decide the separation of activities is proposed to Norway’s Bank’s representation, which is appointed by the Stortinget. It is proposed that such a decision may be taken only on a proposal from the Governing Council. It has also been considered that any decision to segregate activities in an own company would be a decision of particular importance which, under the second paragraph of Section 2 of the Central Bank Act, must be submitted to the Ministry of Finance before the decision is taken by the Bank. Any separation of parts of the operation will give the separated enterprises a more freer position in relation to the Bank’s ordinary bodies in relation to the management function itself, including budgetary competence and resource disposal. Such an organisational solution could improve the ability of the business to compete for the production of non-Norwegian banknotes and coins. It could therefore allow Norway’s Bank to carry out new tasks. This could thus contribute to a better use of competence and production capacity than at present. Of course, the bank still needs to ensure that the quality and safety of the production of banknotes and coins is reassuring, regardless of their organisation. I would like to point out that in several other countries, including Sweden and Finland, the central bank is allowing others to carry out their own production, for example. in subsidiaries owned by the central bank. In the case of the separation of the production of banknotes and coins, as I said, the safety considerations will be very central. In this context, legislative provisions are proposed to ensure that the representation has the necessary supervision and control over the companies carrying out the activities of the bank. The representative body shall be able to require the information it deems necessary for its control as well as from the Executive Director of the undertaking as well as from the Management Board and the selected auditor. To the extent necessary, the representative may carry out investigations in the company itself. The representative body shall be notified and entitled to be present at the general meeting of the undertakings. I would like to emphasise once again that the proposal being put forward has not taken a decision as to whether the Bank of Norway should or should outsource the production of banknotes or coins, or whether businesses in the Bank of Norway should be separated into separate companies. The Committee has addressed the issue of the pricing of cash management services by Norway Bank in its configuration. I have noticed that the committee has asked that this issue be presented appropriately to the Stortinget. I assume that this can best be done by giving a review in the credit report, where the Storting will receive a general explanation every year. a. the activities of the Bank of Norway. The Committee has also referred to a letter from the rapporteur of the case to the Minister for Finance addressing various issues, such as: a. related to the customer’s freedom to choose banking services and ownership for his own data. I have noticed that the Committee asks the Ministry to take this into account in the follow-up to the Banking Law Commission's investigation, which will of course be done.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e671	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e674	It is in no way new that Norway’s Bank wishes the possibility of producing notes and coins on the outside of its own business. The new thing in this case is that we now have a government that has actually agreed to it, and submitted proposals on it to the Stortinget. I think it is quite striking that it is the Right Party and the Advance Party that have to pull the load here in the Chamber, while the centre representatives in the Stortinget want to defend to little extent the position they are now behind. Attempts are being made to give the impression that there may be other Norwegian environments producing coins and notes, but everyone here knows that there are not a number of manufacturing companies around the country with the banknote presses ready to start producing controllable, sound banknotes. The reality is, of course, that this is about being the most realistic option, coins and notes produced in other countries, if it is not Norway’s Bank itself to do so. There's a real disagreement about that. We believe that producing money should be a central part of the tasks of the Bank of Norway in the future, but unfortunately it does not mean the majority. So to the setting: it is still pointed out that Norway’s Bank will aim to deliver the banknote printing and the Royal Copenhagen Coin External Assignment. And then I have to ask the Minister of Finance – point 1: does that mean that the Minister of Finance will ensure that there is no deflagration of the tasks of producing coins and notes until these companies have been given a new assignment? Is that how we're going to interpret this comment? And point 2: Can the Minister of Finance confirm that it is fully possible for these companies in the Bank of Norway to take on such a task today, i.e. that it is not necessary to change the law to give that opportunity?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e683	After the speeches so far in the debate, and especially after the many line rounds, I am very much in doubt whether it is possible to add something new to make the issues we are discussing clearer. It could be tempting to do as Ranveig Frøiland did instead, she said that she as well gave up first as last, and went down from the pulpit. But it would be a little too weak, so I'll still make a try. Of course, I refer first and foremost to what I said in my article. I tried there to explain which assessments have been taken into account and what opportunities are now available. The lines and articles of the working party and SV indicate that they take it too seriously that when this option is there it will certainly be used. That I think is taking the sorrows of those degrees in advance. I also underlined in my post that this is not the case. So I'm a little bit in doubt about what's most important and what's second most important for the two parties. An independent, strong point has been made that there can be uncertainty for the employees of the Bank of Norway. I agree that we should be careful to create uncertainty for employees, whether they are in the Bank of Norway or elsewhere, but this is not a phenomenon only for employees in the Bank of Norway. Anyone exposed to competition may feel a certain uncertainty. After all, the Labour Party has contributed to the necessary competition in very many areas and thus created uncertainty. It may not be necessary to maintain a monopoly only in the interests of the employees of the Bank of Norway. I have recorded that probably several attempts have been made on the part of the Norwegian Bank against finance ministers from the Workers' Party, who have refused to meet the desire to have an opportunity to separate companies if necessary, and also to place the production of banknotes and coins to others if necessary. Now I see that time does not allow any more, but there are probably more lines and then the opportunity to complete.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e696	First I want to say that a thorough work has been done before one came to change this law. One has actually assessed it in relation to the Constitution – and I do not know if it is necessary to evaluate for example. laundry chores. In this context, it is clear that the Constitution allows this to be put off by competition. Twice has the Minister of Finance said that it is not yet a good position to do so. Then my question to the Minister of Finance: How will the governing body in the bank understand it, when the Storting opens today by changing the law, and the Minister of Finance says that it is not a good position to do so? I assume that when one first changes the law, it's because one thinks something about it, otherwise it doesn't make any sense to change the law. For if one sits today as Minister of Finance and knows that it shouldn't be done, and there's no drawing position there, one should not change the law, in our opinion. I therefore found the Minister of Finance in a way to shift some of the responsibility away from him, and that he would not take full responsibility for this. It's actually very defensive in relation to the legislative changes that have been made. When one says that we're taking the sorrows ahead, I think it's a correct description, but it might not be the sorrows, it's the problems we're taking seriously. We don't say, the way the majority does, we're going to change the laws, but we don't know what to do with the change, and we can't just think about taking care of the competences and adding them. One pushes all the issues ahead of itself that we think one must take seriously before one enters and changes the laws. My question to the Minister of Finance therefore concerns what he intends to go back to the board and say when we have made the promise, when he now says that he has not assessed and taken the position as to whether this should be done yet. How hard will he insist that this should not be done?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e703	I ask to be believed when, as Minister of Finance, I say that I have not yet taken a decision on whether companies should be separated, and even less on whether the production of banknotes and coins should be outsourced to others. I will consider that if the situation arises that the bodies of the Bank of Norway that are to assess this first have come to that decision. And then first the Governing Council must have made the decision that they want to separate a company, possibly to outsource production. And if that is not enough, the representation – appointed by the Stortinget and thus should be able to give great assurance that this will be carefully considered – will come to the same conclusion, and look at the top of it all, because it is a matter of particular importance, this will be presented to the Minister of Finance. And then I'll carefully assess whether there's sufficient basis for, or need to, separating new companies. It's pointed out as a point from several here, that you already have access to take external orders, and that's right. But it's not within the normal scope of the Bank of Norway. That's why I want to see it as unproblematic and relatively sensible to separate this company that is going to compete for external missions into a separate company. Then you stand freer, which I tried to explain in my post. And then we'll see if this becomes satisfactory, or if it's necessary to go further. I would like to emphasise again: I don't just think, but I know that the expertise and equipment at the Bank of Norway is at the top in terms of both banknote production and coin production. That's why I think it's going to be a lot more than that before you find out that it's appropriate to put the production away to others, but to prevent an assessment of it, I don't think it's necessary, and that's why I haven't had any concerns about opening up the possibility that access to it can be given to this in the Central Bank Act. I see that the governor is present in the diplomatic lodge, and he has certainly noticed the resistance that has come from the minority, and the conditions that the majority have imposed to open up this opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e714	In the last growing-up period, the current Minister of Finance Restad put in the financial committee between Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and Per Olaf Lundtigen and was probably a kind of peacemaker, I understood, between different sides of the Center Party. But I feel relatively sure that if this position had been submitted to the Financial Committee in the previous period, it would not have been the Center Party who had recommended Odelstinget to make this kind of decision. But leave it. What is the main point here is this: the Minister of Finance says that production does not necessarily have to be outsourced to others, and that he will decide at some point. It's kind of as far as it's possible to get. There's still the question of why we're going to change the law around the world. What we know for sure is that the central bank itself has a strong desire to be as free as possible in relation to political authorities in every way possible, and I also assume in this: here you are going to run the store yourself and give access to the law to run the store you want. There has been an opinion that SV has not shared. But what's a shame is that the Minister of Finance here will pass the same recommendation on to the Storting, despite the fact that it's tried a number of times earlier. What is therefore established, if I understand the Minister of Finance correctly, is that if there is to be a recommendation from the management of the Bank of Norway, then the matter through the Governing Council first, there is to be a recommendation. The matter shall then be referred to the Bureau, where a recommendation shall be made. And then the matter is to be presented to the Minister of Finance, who will then make the final decision. My question to the Minister of Finance is this: after hearing the debate and the arguments put forward here by the minority, and also the reservation made by some from the majority, is there any reason to believe that he will, or is there any reason to believe that he will have the same healthy conservatism that SV has become a spokesman for here today?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e725	The question again is: why change the law? I believe that I have responded – I do not know if the answer is understood, but I have at least tried to answer it. I think it might be appropriate, just to take care of the competence and make use of the high-end equipment that you have in the banknote printing office in Norway and, to the extent that it is also in Kongsberg, to make sure that your business is distinguished in a separate company that can be allowed to engage from outside, i.e. external missions. For it is not a natural part of Norway’s Bank’s business to engage in external tasks, for example: to its banknote printing activity, even if it has occurred to a certain extent up to now. I do not intend to assess this in advance, because it is the bank's governing bodies themselves who will consider whether they might propose to use the funds that are now being opened here, and as I said earlier, this will be submitted to the Ministry of Finance at the end. As I also said in my previous post: Although for my part I do not feel that there is an ideological question – I think that someone has exaggerated it when they present it as an ideological question about printing notes and producing coins in Norway – I agree that it is a matter of importance, and it is a matter that touches us a little emotionally. So for my part it will be a relatively high threshold – especially before I would think it would be reasonable to outsource assignments to others. It will be much more before I feel convinced that it is appropriate and sensible. At least good reasons must be presented, e.g. good economic justification, in order that it may be necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e736	It may seem that the Minister of Finance is now beginning to understand the arguments we have put forward here, given the reservation he is now making in relation to the follow-up to the decision. And then the question remains: why in the world are we going to change the law? We have also asked that question before, without getting an answer to it. But the Minister of Finance has confirmed, as I see it, that we have the opportunity to give the Royal Coin and the printing press tasks today. So we don't have to change the law to give them that opportunity. In this way, he turns his legs away under the argument we had in the case rapporteur's line round here, but it is now at least a confirmation of what we have argued all the way. Then there is one question: how does the Minister of Finance interpret the assumption that the majority of the majority has made that it is possible to assign other tasks to these production companies in the Bank of Norway? Does the Minister of Finance think that those tasks need to be in place first, as it may look out of the text, or does he really see the wording more as just good wishes and an excuse to go into what we know will put these jobs, with the associated competences, at risk? In other words, I would ask the Minister of Finance to assess the commitment in the wording put forward by the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e745	Dag Terje Andersen claims that only now does the Minister of Finance begin to have some understanding of the arguments put forward by the Workers' Party. But those arguments I've heard many times, and I've thought carefully through them. I understand that, for example. employees at the Bank of Norway are concerned about their jobs – it is primarily from where I have received these enquiries. But I have not seen the need to maintain a monopoly in order to take special care of the employees of the Bank of Norway. I do not think that their jobs are particularly dangerous. As I've said several times before, I think it's going to be a lot before the result of this amendment is that the assignments are transferred to completely different ones, where Norges Bank's employees no longer have a function. Then I've been asked about the understanding of the majority's remark. I have understood the majority's comment so that they too are very sceptical that the missions are to be set out entirely by the Bank of Norway. I have not understood their concern to establish or separate their own companies that can make better use of their skills and equipment and do something that is then natural for such a company and that is not natural for the Bank of Norway, namely to accept external assignments. My way of reading this is that there is a confirmation that in the Storting there is a considerable scepticism to put away the missions to the outside world.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e752	Yes, I do not know how much it has to do with this, because I feel that there is something we do not get the answer to. Now, when the Minister of Finance repeats that there's going to be a lot of work to be done, and that we have to believe that there's no lead from the Department's side on this, then I wonder if one of you, in the future, is changing a law, should not have put any lead on what you want with the law change. My question is then: how can the Minister of Finance stop this from being done, both in relation to the board, the representation and all those who want to make the necessary settings, when a majority in Stortinget has said that we should change the promise to do this here? It's kind of very strange, I thought, when the Minister of Finance put forward a bill change that he hasn't had any leads for, and he doesn't want anything to do with. Then I thought it would be safest that a promise didn't change until someone knew what it was like. So my question is, how does one stop such a decision?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e759	I understand that my pedagogical skills are under the desired, when it is not possible to explain why I nevertheless believe that it is right to open these possibilities. So there are two possibilities: one is the possibility to separate own companies, which will of course still be under the Bank of Norway, owned by the Bank of Norway and run the production of notes and coins. I have not made it quite clear to myself whether the Workers' Party is also against it, and in case of what the counter-representation against it should be. The other option that opens up, which I have clearly realized is that the Workers' Party is opposed, as a minority is opposed and to which a majority in the Chamber is obviously very sceptical, is to put away production to the outside world. And the last thing I agree with. There's a lot more to it – even for me, it's a high threshold to pass if you were to put away the production of notes and coins to the outside. On the other hand, there is no threshold for me to separate own companies, which are owned by the Bank of Norway, and let them operate with what they have done up to today, but in addition to taking on additional external tasks, so as to exploit the production equipment and expertise already available at the Bank of Norway today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e770	As a result, the string shift has ended.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e773	It is interesting to listen to this new and hearty tone that exists between the cooperation parties, in particular the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. There aren't many days since we heard embraces of each other with invitations to government cooperation. Now it seems that at least the relationship between the Workers' Party and the Center Party does not have the same warmth over it. On the right, we have nothing to say about the Government's proposal on the issues that have been discussed in particular. In fact, we have the confidence in Norway's Bank that they can assess the quality of the banknotes, the indoor pressure or the outdoor pressure. We also have so much confidence in the Bank of Norway and its governing bodies and in the Ministry of Finance that the trust we have shown in some other state institutions – historically somewhat less important, I have to say, than the Bank of Norway – namely, the ability to distinguish individual businesses in our own ASs, we will actually also give the Bank of Norway. If we give it to the NSB, it might not be far from giving the same trust to the Bank of Norway. But I understand that not everyone has that confidence in the Bank of Norway, and we are sure that the Bank of Norway has also noted it. As far as the issue of flagging, as was said by the representative of Frøiland, is concerned, I also have the confidence of those who are going to assess it, that they are assessing it on a sober and simple basis. I also heard the representative Rune Kristiansen talk about ideology – and then you have to listen. The representative of Kristiansen also spoke about value conservatism, and I understood that he had interpreted value conservatism so that it is based on the fact that the values have to be printed in Norway. I think that's a blind lead, if I'm going to be allowed to give a careful ideological instruction in an area that at least right-wing people know pretty well. That's not where the values lie, to say it like this, then I think you're talking about different types of values than those that are at the heart of an ideological debate. No, in fact, if there's money to save on doing this in more rational ways, I think it's a fairly good guideline that then this should be done in the most reasonable way, and there should be other good societal purposes for the benefit, whether it's health, education or care of the elderly, which is often mentioned from this pulpit. Finally, I have some wonder about the Workers' Party's violent involvement in the matter, because I feel convinced that this had a labor party government also done without major problems. I am absolutely convinced that at least large parts of the Workers' Party had looked forward so well in time that they would see that this is an adaptation to a future Norwegian EU membership that is both sensible and simple. At some point, however – it is just a time debate – like the other Nordic countries, Norway will be part of the euro zone, using coins and notes in common with other countries, and as the last small chance insists that the money should at least be printed or embossed in Norway, I think will be at the top of symbol policy. So this seems very reasonable. It is so intrigued by the fact that in a government in which the Central Party is involved, there may be such thoughts, both of a kind of liberation of state institutions and of a kind of gradual, but very cautious and very long-term EU adjustment, I also find it a little strange that representatives of the Workers' Party have pointed out on several occasions, as is true, without being surprised that this government has adapted to the EU more than any other previous government, even in areas where we are not regularly covered by the EEA Agreement and are free to choose Norwegian solutions. However, as a recent report from the ARENA Research Foundation shows, the Government has also opted for EU-like or fully EU-compliant solutions in these areas, where one stands free, regardless of the costs of choosing strange solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e788	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e791	When the representative Foss finds it necessary to go to the pulpit and be a center weapon, it shows in a way how problematic this matter is for the centre parties in the Stortinge today. Per-Kristian Foss, like others, is also trying to point out that the minority obviously does not have the necessary confidence in the governing bodies of the Bank of Norway in this matter. Then I must again be allowed to stress that this has nothing to do with the confidence of the governing bodies in the Bank of Norway. That is not the question that is being discussed today. This is the question of whether the Storting should make a legislative change, the reason why the Storting should have for the legislative change that is being made, and what is the purpose of the legislative change to be made in Stortinget. And after listening to the representative Foss, it is obvious that the Right does not have the same thresholds in this matter as the Minister of Finance has. My question to the representative Foss is as follows: The Minister of Finance recently stressed in a reply that, as he sees it, there is a low threshold to distinguish these activities we are discussing today, the mint and printing of banknotes, in own companies, while the Minister of Finance, on the other hand, has a very high threshold, as he himself stressed, to outsource this production. It was difficult for the undersigned to see that the representative Foss had the same thresholds as the Minister of Finance, and my question is: Can Foss confirm that the Right looks quite differently on the issue of outsourcing production than the Minister of Finance Restad recently explained?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e798	It was then very surprising that we should have become an arms dealer for a central government – we have been doing that for a few years now, at least in budgetary policy, and were disowned by the representative who recently made contributions. There must be limits to historylessness. Now the roles are a little bit different. But even blind hen can find grain, so we can't fail to support a government that suggests something that makes sense. I think this proposal had not come from a finance minister, Mr Lundtegen, I must say, it is a relatively strange idea for me. So the question is whether we have the same thresholds for the exercise of the authorisation authority that the Ministry of Finance has given here. And it's also an extremely historyless question – I have to say it this way – that the Right should have the same thresholds to pursue sound governance policies as the Center Party. We've never had that. The centre party has always been against existing cooperation possibilities and has accepted them approximately. 20 years later. It is as far as they have now accepted the Nordic Council, and the EEA Agreement continues to be opposed, but in ten years' time the Centre Party will be an enthralled member of the EEA Agreement. That's the way it goes. In 20 years' time, the Center Party may also be a very active user of access to do things rationally, including in the Bank of Norway. I record from other areas that the Centre Party has become a strong supporter of, among other things. privatising state-owned companies engaged in risky activities abroad, read Statkraft, inter alia. It was completely impossible to imagine it ten years ago, and it will take a few years before you start this, but it goes its usual time. So the thresholds are not the same, but you can still agree to give legal access to it. The question is whether a Right-State Council would have worked equally with a Central Party Council in this area, and the answer is obviously no.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e809	No more words have been asked for. No more have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 110]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e825	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Left 10 minutes, and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for a sequence change of up to three sequences with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each party group and after contributions from members of the Government. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e836	As the Government presented the 2000 tax package — legislative changes — there is much consensus on many points. There are few points on which there is disagreement in relation to the points in the tax regime presented by the Government. The major amendments/additions came only when the budgetary agreement between the Labour Party and the Government Parties took the form of a final decision. The government parties have been positive and constructive in the discussions we have had about the tax arrangements. The agreement between the Workers’ Party and the Government Parties on the State budget for the year 2000 provides for a comprehensive tax regime providing for tax increases of EUR 2 091 million. NOK 1885 million and tax reliefs incurred. kr in relation to the Government’s original proposal. For the Workers' Party, it was absolutely essential to have an impact on a scheme that produced good distribution effects. That's what we got. The calculations show that the tax relief benefits essentially the low income groups and that the largest tax amplifying occurs only for income groups with more than SEK 762 000 in an annual income. As you know, the shipping tax system has been up for debate for a long time. This industry is currently favoured by a tax which means that profits are not taxed on an ongoing basis by 28 p.m., which is common in other enterprises. The profits are taxed only as dividends. The budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre parties now involves a close fiscal gap for this industry, including: tightening of the right to deduct interest on debt, increased tax on high equity, the introduction of a tax obligation on foreign exchange gains, some restrictions on intragroup transfers and increased tonnage tax. These restrictions correspond to the income of the country of approx. One hundred and seventy-five million. kr. If we look at the accounting profit for shipping companies in the scheme in 1997, it was 5,900 million. kr. This gives a total tax of 2.4 pst. for the shipping companies. The budgetary agreement also provides for important constraints in the sharing model relating to the identification rules. It has been important for the majority to ensure that the return on employment is taxed equally, regardless of whether the taxpayer is an active owner, employee or self-employed person. The current scheme means that in so-called liberal professions, such as architects and brokers, large parts of the tax have been avoided by giving shares in the company to parents and authoritative children. These options are now tightened up. The rules on identification are now changed in relation to liberal professions as of the 2000 income year, so that they cover again the parents of taxpayers, spouses, parents of spouses, children, cohabitants or parents of cohabitants. This tax gap in the divisional model that we have had since 1997 has largely benefited resource-intensive people with adaptability. On the part of the Workers' Party, we will not exclude further work and limitations in this area, including: in view of the difference in the marginal tax rate between capital income and high employee income. Furthermore, the Labour Party and the Centre Parties have set the rate of return on capital at 10 pst. In the past, this rate was 11 pst. The contents of this capital provision are known as imputed personal income. This rate of provision will now be more consistent between the taxation of employees and active owners. This implies that a greater part of the income is taxed as revenue instead of capital income, by 28 pst. tax. The budget agreement now concluded implies the introduction of a new step in the tax ceiling. The entry point is set at 762 700 kroner with a new peak tax of 6 pst. This will affect about 28 000 people. Several studies show that people with high incomes also have other relatively high incomes, including: from shares and other capital. It can also be demonstrated that the uneven distribution of capital income increases income disparities in society. The highest income groups must contribute to a more even distribution. On the part of the Workers' Party, we have also worked for a longer period of time for changes in the tax system to facilitate low earnings. The budget agreement entered into between the Labour Party and the Centre Parties now provides for the introduction of a new salary deduction of NOK 30 600. In the first instance, employees receive tax relief of up to DK 140 000. For part-time workers with, for example, NOK 75 000 and NOK 100000 of employee income, the tax relief will be NOK 4300 and NOK 2850 respectively. We know that public welfare is escalating as you move from work to social security. Work needs to be organised in such a way as to make it more profitable. This tax relief for the low pay groups will result in a good redistribution from those with high wage and capital income to those with the lowest wage income. This redistribution will provide good motivation for participation in professional life. The budgetary agreement on taxes and charges between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties has been redistributed as pillars. We know that today's redistribution has been partly financed by today's AMS scheme. The 1992 tax reform pointed to the fact that this type of saving was not to be prioritised. One of the reasons was that the scheme does not make a positive contribution to total saving and thus appears to be a random tax expense. Furthermore, we are of the opinion that a system of tax advantages related to the placement of capital in unit trusts and individual shares is poorly suited to a tax system in which one tries, moreover, to seek fiscal non-discrimination of different forms of savings. The AMS scheme may appear to be a repositioning of savings – which does not increase the access to capital for business. These are some of the reasons for the termination of the AMS mechanism, which is now supported by the majority. The budgetary agreement also contains the following decisions: The point of entry for the top tax is regulated in line with the wage growth. In step 1, the peak tax entry point will be NOK 277 800 and NOK 329 000 in class 2. The care allowance will now be retained. There will be a reduction in depreciation rates for commercial buildings by 1 pst. and for buildings and installations with 2 pst.The car charges for heavy, large passenger cars are increased through the one-off charge.The environmental diesel refund scheme is repealed.The processing industry is exempted from the basic fuel oil levy.The new pressure-impregnated wood levy is not introduced. These are some of the important tax proposals that we have changed in relation to the government’s approach. As rapporteur-in-Office, I would also like to make some comments on two aspects relating to the petroleum industry. The Committee – and it is a unanimous committee – shares a common view on these issues. One point is the practice of the Petroleum Tax Act § 10. The Committee has noted that it is now considering whether restrictions on operating costs resulting from aggregation should be taken into account in the neutrality calculations. The Committee took note of the letters received by the members of the Committee from the companies concerned. That Committee shall include, inter alia: underlines in the note that practice should be such that transactions are not exposed in an unpredictable manner. Rules must not be changed when the game is started. The second point is the Government's announced investigation into the petroleum tax system. A unanimous committee underlines the need for such a review, further that such review and evaluation and any proposals for amendments must be submitted to the Stortinget by 1 November 2000 — in other words, a significant acceleration in relation to the Government’s arrangements, as presented in a press release. The Committee has done this in order to allow the current set-up to complete the petroleum tax system. Furthermore, the Committee expressed the view that the Government should give an account of the problems involved in the petroleum tax in the notified notification of the petroleum activity, so that the Storting can see them in a broader sense when dealing with this notification. The agreement on fiscal policy concluded will undoubtedly contribute to a fairer distribution. It's a redistribution from the richest, which now has to deliver more to the community. The lowest wage earners now have more living to live on. Important welfare arrangements are ensured. And I would like to end by saying that food and employment policy has been strengthened in different areas, and in particular I would like to highlight the action plan for the workshop industry and the supplier industry.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e908	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e911	In fact, I agree with the Nordtun representative that there has been a significant redistribution through this budget. A redistribution has taken place in such a way that many ordinary taxpayers are affected by the current budgetary agreement. The starting point for Mr. Nordtun was supposed to be "taking away from the richest". It ended with the removal of the AMS scheme for hundreds of thousands of Norwegians who have saved DKK 10 billion in the Norwegian equity market. Housing taxes are increased by increasing the tariff base by 10 pst. It hits them with normal housing, regardless of the nature of the property situation. The electricity tax is increased by 44 p.m., which the Workers' Party was opposed to last year. for distribution reasons, without compensating for this in relation to pensioners and those who have little to walk with. So the Workers' Party has thought that the financial situation of pensioners is also interesting in relation to a distributional discussion. And what does the Workers' Party do? They cut in the special deduction for pensioners. This is part of a strategy aimed at shifting new public challenges to individual taxpayers rather than at being willing to give priority to the state within its framework. Does the representative of Nordtun think that increased taxes on housing, increased pensioners' taxes, the removal of the AMS and the fact that more people have to pay top taxes, including those with an average wage for industrial workers, are well distributed?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e922	Børge Brende raised several issues, including: the question of whether we have now imposed new taxes and taxes on people. Yes, it is clear that in the agreement it is both to give and take. In terms of housing taxes, we've now increased the equation value by 10 pst. It's nothing new. The right was also involved in such agreements in the budgetary rounds they had with the government parties. The rate we have in Norwegian homes and properties is very low. If there's an adjustment here, it's not really big. With regard to the AMS scheme, I must also refer a little to the history and tax settlement in 1992. You drew up the line that the forms of saving were not the right forms of saving. You'd have to be more equal to the savings. That's why we've seen it as right in a distribution policy perspective now to remove the AMS scheme. In the case of taxes on pensioners, which the Right loves to bring forward in all debates, we have done a significant part. If we look at insured persons with relatively low incomes, i.e. incomes up to NOK 160 000, they will now get the real tax relief after this scheme – it shows the tables. This essentially falls within the specific taxation rules for pensioners. The most important thing for pensioners now is that the rates of the minimum deduction are increased from 21 to 22 pst. Furthermore, I would like to point out that the added value of the tax reduction rules is now being reduced from 3 to 2 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e933	To the last post, I just have to say that I hope the Norwegian Pensioners' Association by its leader, Mr. Strand, now notes that the Workers' Party believes that there is no longer any adjustment to the special deduction for age that is the most important in the taxation of pensioners. This is contrary to what has been said a number of times earlier to the Financial Committee in dealing with such cases in the Stortinget. I have three questions for Mr. North Tun. I'm not going to continue the dialogue from the financial debate, but there were some things that were hanging a little bit in the air, as perhaps Mr. Nordtun can help to clear up now. Question 1: Which of the so-called compensation companies, also known as the artist companies, is what after this conciliation becomes illegal? They were highlighted in the paper, and Nordtun himself was out there expressing a considerable moral indignation at the use of tax rules like this, and that was mentioned by the newspaper Dagbladet. Who will be illegal after this? In other words, what treasure hole is being sealed? Question 2: What was the reason why no worker party government ever needed to increase marginal tax beyond 50 p.m., taking into account that the living conditions surveys and also the government's own balancing message show that there is no difference between employee incomes that there has been a growing difference? It is in the relationship between those who have employee income and those who at the top of employee income have investment income, the difference lies. What, then, is the reason for attacking employee income anyway, and not doing so when you were in government position? Question 3: It is claimed by several speakers from the central parties that the Workers' Party has accepted the system of shipping taxes with this agreement. I could put the question this way: has the representative Nordtun done it? I don't want to, because I think I know the answer. But my question is, has the Workers' Party now accepted the shipping tax system?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e946	The representative Foss once again raised the question of the pensioners, and I refer to my first reply, where I pointed to some significant changes. But I just want to say to Foss that the most important thing that, in my opinion, is laid down in this agreement, as the Workers' Party has also underlined, is the regulation of G that takes place in May. It's the underregulation of G that's been going on and on, which has made the pensioners not coming out so well. In the decisions we make here in the Storting, we politicians must stand by the fact that G must be properly regulated in relation to development elsewhere in society. Of course, as far as the sharing model and various illegalities are concerned, I will not classify and define here what is illegal or not illegal. I have previously said from this speaker that it is very difficult to deal with tax issues – there are always ways out in different areas. But what was important to us was that there was an intrusion, that one did not get a further slip in terms of the identification rules. I distance myself from defining it so that when you go into the law and interpret it in its way, and the interpretation is acceptable under the Equation Act and other tax laws, you do something illegal. You adapt to a system – it's something else. In this respect, in terms of earnings and capital income, I am very much in agreement with the representative Foss that this is where inequalities have increased strongly in society. We have a lot to do in that area, and in this regard, I would like to refer to and welcome the tax debate that we are going to have next year, when the Government comes up with proposals for a flat tax system for Stortinget. But the centre parties and the Workers' Party have at least now made a redistribution that people will notice. [[The President clubs.]] Finally, the shipping tax: we have now reached a very important agreement with the centre parties for the budget year we are going into. It is also important that industry has a secure environment for some time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e957	The President will ask for one to stick to the speaking time set for the replacement of lines.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e960	In this budgetary process, the Labour Party is delighted to present itself as those who redistribute resources, that is, to take resources from those who have much, and to give to those who have little. The minimum pensioners are the ones who have the least in society, and they are also the ones who sit with the oldest apartments, the oldest houses, and who have to spend the most on firing expenses to keep these houses warm. So the government parties and the Workers' Party are increasing the electricity tax by 44 pst. It is also a fact that this group does not pay taxes. When one says that one redistributes, from the rich to the poor, my question must be how the Workers' Party and the government parties intend to organize it. How does the majority intend to give tax relief to those who have the least, in other words those who do not pay tax — the minimum pensioners?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e965	The representative Svendsen called for the real intentions of the Workers' Party in terms of redistribution. I have actually shown that the pensioners will have a tax relief. That's what the representative Svendsen can turn up in the tables. I have also shown how we do this in the previous line change, for example. by the rates of the minimum deduction, which are increased from 21 to 22 p.m., the asset add-on to the tax limitation rule is reduced from 3 to 2 p.m. and the tables show that with revenues below NOK 160 000 they will receive a tax relief, which will also benefit pensioners. There's no doubt about it. Furthermore, we also have the example that I used as part-time employees – those who make 75 000 kroner or 100 000 dollars in tax classes 1 and 2 respectively receive tax reliefs of 4 300 kroner – 2 850 kroner respectively. It's important things. We've taken on board a redistribution that's important. As shown earlier, the differences have increased, and then we have to make sure that those who have the least to travel with get more. We've done that through this tax system, and we're actually proud of that. With the tax reliefs that the Progress Party has loved to highlight, and which have also been set out in the form of proposals in the vote, I have to ask the question: Where is the security and distribution policy? Once again, where is the security of those who need it most in our society? I think it'll be gone. Finally, the question of cancelling the electricity charge by 2.5 cents: We went against it – that is correct – for approx. one and a half years ago. Then we didn't have the fiscal grips either.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e973	So the line change is over. The next speaker is Kenneth Svendsen, with a speaking time of up to 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e978	I would like to start by saying that I am not going to use the entire speaking time in 15 minutes. I would like to point out that the overall tax regime and all the broad lines of the draft budget of the parties are not the subject of the debate. I am therefore going to take into account the concrete legislative amendments that form part of the overall budget of the Progress Party, and will therefore not set out all the overall priorities. The Progress Party assumes that the distribution of income in society is primarily a result of individual labour input and will not change this distribution of income through progressive taxation. The Progress Party believes that progressive taxation is particularly unfair to people who have invested a lot of time and money in their own education. Therefore, in the long term, the Progress Party will eliminate all government taxes on income and, as a start, introduce personal taxation on a flat percentage basis for all with deductions in the form of deductions from tax. However, the most acute problem in income taxation is that even low incomes are taxed heavily. The Progress Party will therefore agree that everyone will receive a good tax credit by proposing that the deductions be significantly increased in our primary budget proposal, to DKK 35 000 in tax classes 1 and DKK 70 000 in tax class 2 respectively. During the vote here today, we will also support the proposal of the Labour Party and the Centre to increase the lower limit of the minimum deduction to NOK 30 600. This is a proposal that goes in the same direction as the proposal of the Progress Party. Once the tax policy of the Progress Party has been implemented — and that day will come — fewer people will be dependent on social assistance and other crumbs from public hands. An easy way to combat poverty is to eliminate the poverty caused by the tax burden. The business environment is and has been at the heart of the Progress Party. The budget agreement between the Labour Party and the Centre means that the business community has had fewer political friends. The left – which at least quite clearly has stated a business policy, and which wants to appear to be the defender of business – has created enough problems. The budget agreement provides a worse framework for business. We can only thank the Left for the follow-up and wish good luck – out of Stortinget! Quite exactly one year ago in the corresponding debate, I said the following: ‘The Party of Foreign Ministers is very pleased to have actively contributed to the reversal of all these attacks on business by means of the budgetary agreement concluded between the five civil parties.’;» The attacks I've been talking about are partly the same attacks that the Workers' Party has now pushed at the center parties: intensification of the ship's causation in the divisional model,increased the electricity charge for new taxes on fuel oil increased motor vehicle fees, etc. etc. This year I must therefore say that I am very sorry that it has been completely inappropriate for the centre to talk to the Progress Party and the Right about providing industry with safe and stable framework conditions – as Left loves to say. The so-called block independence has the price that it is not possible for anyone to predict the business environment in Norway from one year to the next. Block independence simply means that government parties have no direction of their policies at all. The center has elevated it to a principle not to mean anything itself, but to be governed – first by one, and then by the other. Block independence is balancing on the top of a fence, then falling down, first on one side, and then climbing up, and falling down on the other side. When you fall as much as this government does, you have to hit a lot. However, the government seems very pleased. So block independence is something more than not to mean for yourself, it's a new form of political masochism. I will then link some comments to other parts of the tax regime that are mentioned in the cancellation. Last year the Progress Party asked the Government to speed up its efforts to reduce contributions to non-governmental organisations. We believe that the legislative proposal that has now been promoted is good. But I want to raise a little detail that I think it's funny that it's not possible for the majority to be corrected. Paragraphs 6-50, first subparagraph, point (f) set out three objectives that can be satisfied with non-taxable gifts: environmental protection, nature protection and animal protection. When the Advance Party – of all – proposes to include cultural protection in the outline, only the Right Party is jumping on. Please explain to me why it is not a central policy, or, for that matter, a social democratic policy to give a handshake to the preservation of our cultural history. So to something quite different: the Progress Party believes that it is important to encourage employees to become partners in their own business, and assumes that it is a broadly anchored political objective to facilitate such ownership. We therefore propose that, of course, options should not be taxed until one is certain that the option has a fair value. Taxation at the time of issue is, in effect, a tax on values that can be zero and hampers the ability of employees to become joint owners in their own enterprise. The Progress Party is concerned with the conditions of the elderly in Norway, and wonders whether the Centre Government, for the third time — out of three possible attempts — is trying to reduce the specific deduction for age in the tax equation. The third time is clearly valid. This time they succeed in cooperation with the Workers' Party. This is a brilliant example of block independence. First, the special deduction is increased by several thousand in cooperation with the Progress Party, and then the special deduction is reduced in cooperation with the socialists. That's what happens when wings are a political principle. That the Christian People's Party dares to appear as the party of the small children's families, it is likely to be a quick end. Reduction in the allowance, which was then completely removed by the Christian People's Party government, and reduction in the rates of child welfare, means in clear text for the three-child family with children under 16, a loss of approx. NOK 5000 per year – net. It is almost unnecessary to say that the Progress Party enters in order to keep both the care allowance unchanged and the child's pension rates uncircumcised. The Progress Party has come to the conclusion that the central government is occupied by living settlements. Two important prerequisites for people living in the countryside, as I do, are that we can afford to have a car, and that we can afford to work – not all of them have the same opportunity as I do, and are sitting on the Stortinget – and that we can afford to commute to work, which is usually in the city and not in the countryside. There is therefore no logic whatsoever in the fact that the central government is forcing tax incentives for commuters in addition to the fact that the cars are becoming more expensive. We who live in the countryside and create living settlements appreciate being allowed to lay the foundation for life in the countryside itself. There are many of us who will not be taken away from the little thing we cart to us in taxes, and then get it back as earmarked transfers that we have not asked for. Finally, I must be allowed to say that the vast majority of deduction schemes will be unnecessary after we have introduced the progressive tax system of the Progress Party, and society will be saved for a number of lawyers, tax advisers and equality officials who can rather be put into community-based work. However, within the system of deduction we have, we have to put great energy into making sure that the deductions are correct and fair from our political point of view. I will be allowed to address the proposals on which the Progress Party stands alone, and the proposals which the Progress Party is promoting together with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e1046	Kenneth Svendsen has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e1051	The representative Svendsen came to say in his post here from the pulpit that the special deduction was reduced. It's not. The special deduction has not been reduced, but it has not been adjusted. Now it was not a line for me, but it is not useful to talk about tax policy with a representative of the Progress Party. It's kind of like trying to get hold of a calf that you drop out in the spring. It's pretty springy. And following the Progress Party in terms of tax relief is an impossible matter. The representative of the Progress Party tries to produce it in such a way that the conditions of the elderly in Norway are safeguarded by the policies of the Progress Party. I assume that Svendsen has a small idea of what reductions will occur in this society if the policies of the Progress Party are implemented. Where is the security of our welfare systems – and we can mention them in flang – if we don't have income? My question to the representative of the Progress Party on fiscal policy at all is, and now the Progress Party has to answer: is it the principle that each of us is to be our own success smith who is to be present in our society? All shall finance their own arrangements. Long live the Toten, but let go of the rest of Norway. I must also remind you that the Progress Party was involved in significant things last year when they supported the tax and tax arrangements for the central government at that time. Then they actually joined in almost doubling the expenditure growth in society.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e1058	It's a little amazing to listen to the representative Nordtun when he says that you haven't reduced the special deduction for age. It's clear that the value has been reduced. If it was such that it did not matter to those who received this money, I would like to ask the representative why all the estimates that have income side to the state are adjusted. They are adjusted up every year. It is a minimum that they are adjusted up at the price rise. They're usually increased as well. In its proposal, the Progress Party has brought down taxes and taxes that really benefit everyone in this society, including those who have the least. In addition, we have proposed, through proposals in this Parliament, inter alia, and have been adopted, an additional NOK 12 000 to the minimum pensioners, an amount that the majority of this House has been able to reduce, so that it became far, much smaller to them.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e1065	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e1068	The tax debate in Odelstinget may not be the most exciting and the one that is followed with the most interest. This is mainly due to the fact that the tax arrangements for the following year have already received a thorough and comprehensive treatment and attention through the financial debate in Stortinget. However, the online debate, the debate on the necessary legislative changes to implement the tax regime for next year, is very important. Moreover, if the formal law decisions are not in place, the tax arrangements on which the government budget for the next year is based are not. The Christian People's Party's tax thinkers have several major leaders. We want a tax scheme with a good distribution profile. We want a tax system that is perceived to be as fair as possible, and a tax system that takes care of business's need for free trade, capital building and a prudent situation. New in the next year's tax scheme is the so-called minimum deduction of labour income, etc. This deduction is NOK 30 600 and will contribute to the provision of large tax credits for low pay and part-time contributions with low annual income. Otherwise, the minimum ordinary deduction is adjusted to 22 pst. of the income. The upper limit of the minimum deduction, NOK 36 600, represents an overcompensation, even in relation to compensation for an additional electricity charge. Another area I want to mention is voluntary teams and organizations. This part of Organisation Norway, which we call the third sector, carries out important and irreplaceable work in many fields. This Government is engaged in ensuring good conditions for voluntary teams and organisations. Therefore, it is gratifying to record that there is now an impact on the Government’s proposal on tax deductions for gifts to such organisations. Although the tax-free sum is not yet so high, it is, however, fully pervasive for this important principle. The flora of voluntary teams and organizations is large and represents a very large variety. Therefore, it may be difficult to find good and tidy definitions of who should be covered by the scheme. Many organisations are team- or group-based, without a central membership register. For this reason, a majority in the Committee has asked the Government to assess whether requirements for a certain number of teams/groups can be equated with the requirement for at least 3000 members to be included in the scheme. The overarching objective of introducing the tax exemption scheme is to encourage, stimulate and help these organisations to continue and further develop the important work they carry out. Therefore, the scheme must also match the organisations for which it was intended. For this reason, the Committee of the Regions has also asked the Government to consider whether the scheme should also include organisations that promote cultural protection. As you know, it is advisable to remove the seafarer's allowance for state losers. The Christian People's Party is involved in supporting the proposal. In our work on the next year's tax package, we have considered the point very carefully. We have been through the extent to which representatives of this group have been, or have not been, involved in the preliminary stage. We have carefully considered that this means a not insignificant reduction in the net income of individual government unemployment. So our conclusion is that we support the proposal to remove the mariner's deduction. When we don't support the Right Comment in the Budget Input. S. No 1 for 1999-2000, that they assume that compensation for the loss of seafarer’s income is part of the spring wage settlement, is linked to the fact that the Stortinge has not had the practice of providing such concrete leadership in wage settlement. We believe that the parties are still lit with such a practice, but that does not mean that we disagree with what is the reality in Right's comment. No tax debate in the last few years has been free of the theme of taxation for railcarriers and sharing models. The tax scheme for the year 2000 does not represent an exception in this way. In the sharing model, the so-called capital return rate is reduced by 1 pst, and there is widespread tightening of the identification rules for liberal professions. When it comes to the latter, I would like to make it clear that the main goal is not just to streamline the tax rules for artists and TV acquaintances, and then other liberal professions have followed up on the purchase, more or less randomly, so that one can get the impression when reading the Business Week of 26 November 1999. There is no doubt that some people have deliberately pursued tax planning by means of the sharing model beyond what was intentional by the legislators. At the same time, it is important to clarify that those with liberal professions cannot be generalised as notorious taxpayers. When we have found it defensive to intensify the rules for the identification of liberal professions, the aim is to close the tax gap. We consider that the real family exposure is consistently larger and has more extensive consequences in manufacturing enterprises and the like than in the liberal professions. Therefore, we believe that the proposed change in the identification rules is in line with the intentions of the sharing model. When it comes to the taxation arrangements for fleets, I would like to say that both in the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre and otherwise in a large majority in the Committee, these arrangements are confirmed as a system. There are three proposed changes to the scheme. All three of these changes are identical to what the Government proposed in connection with the current year's tax regime. I mention in summary that this relates to a reduction in the right to deduct interest on debt, an increase in the tax on high capital and a tax liability on foreign exchange gains. In view of the fact that these adjustments are currently taking place, and on the basis of a strong desire for sustainable and stable framework conditions, including for the shipping industry, I expect that the tax arrangements for the fleets of the years to come will now be relaxed. In the present setting, the majority is in favour of the Government's proposal that bond taxation should take place according to the so-called interest rate withdrawal model. Here the majority emphasise that market players have for a long time wanted to be able to print so-called sub-curricular bonds. From the Christian People's Party's side we believe that a postponement of decisions on bond taxation can lead to unfortunate uncertainties. Finally, it appears that the test systems with pre-filled self-notification have been reasonably successful. Thus, a joint committee does not comment that the pilot project will be carried forward also for the 1999 income year. Most likely, self-message will be prefilled in the future pattern. Therefore, it is important that we give us good time for good and thorough evaluation, so that any unfortunate consequences can be eliminated and any deficiencies corrected. In the Christian People's Party, we can stand up with the proposed tax scheme for the year 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e1106	The representative Tore Nordtun asserted in his post and in the reply with the representative Kenneth Svendsen that the pensioners will get better out with the arrangements of the Government and the Centre parties for the next year than they do this year. He referred to the Labour Party's tables which they have been prepared by the Statistical Central Bureau. But of course, what the representative Nordtun did not say one word about is that the Workers' Party has not asked the Central Statistical Agency to include the large fee increases in the agreement. So when one does not include the increase in the electricity charge of 44 p.m., and when one does not include the other tax increases – I think of a one-time charge on the car, diesel tax, etc. Maybe someone comes out with that kind of math. But it's actually so that pensioners heat up their houses. It's actually the case that pensioners are hit by the fact that you're actually cutting in the special deduction for age. The representative of Nordtun also introduced a new calculation in the line change with Kenneth Svendsen, namely that it is not a reduction in a deduction if it is not price adjusted. It is with respect to report – I will choose a parliamentary expression – a rather doubtful way of counting on and against what is normal. The point is, if you don't adjust a deduction, it has, at least, been counted as a cut. I wonder if the representative Nordtun – I see that he is now asking for a reply – can clarify what might be behind the fact that price adjustment should no longer be seen as a cut. The representative of Nordtun was also involved in his contribution to the differences between taxation of labour income and investment income. So the representative said that in this area we have a lot to do, and that we are going to get back to it when the Minister of Finance comes to Stortinget to deal with the report on flat tax. I fully agree that we have a lot to do in this area with regard to the difference between taxes on labour income and capital. We're going to do something about that by reducing the tax on labour income. But what the Workers' Party wants in this way appears to be very unclear. During the financial debate in Stortinget, the Vice-President of the Labour Party and former Minister of Finance, Jens Stoltenberg, took the floor and said that he was very proud that in the negotiations he has managed to push back proposals to increase the tax on general income from 28 p.m. until 29 pst. I fully agree with the representative of Stoltenberg that strengthening corporate taxation and increasing the tax on capital in a situation of strong competition between countries is an unfortunate signal. So there we are on the line. Then the Labour Party's attitude is not to increase the tax on ordinary income. Then it must be the tax on labour income the Labour Party wants to reduce, if you want to get less inequality in the taxation of the two forms of income. And then it's very illogical to start a reduction in the difference between the two forms of taxation by increasing the tax on labour income. Thus, the tax settlement now in existence with the intentions of the 1992 tax compromise breaks down by once again increasing the marginal tax rate in Norway to 56 pst. The risk of that increase in marginal tax up to 56 pst. No one wants to take charge. During the financial debate, Finance Minister Gudmund Restad – and he stood by his previous statements – said that a sharp increase and introduction of a new step in the top tax would easily lead to attempts at tax evasion. He also says by his letter last year, in which he warned against this conversion, that such a high marginal tax would lead to a violent pressure, to possibly be included in the sharing model, or to earn income into an AS, so that you get a tax of 28 pst. But something has to be given in negotiations, said the Minister of Finance. Then you also listen to more representatives from the Workers' Party, among others. the former head of the financial committee, Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, who was not at all willing to take responsibility for the new stage in the top tax, and said that the Workers' Party accepted what former Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen has also said, that this was not a good solution. So now it actually appears as a big mystery who in the negotiations between the centre and the Workers' Party has pushed forward a new step in the top tax to which no one will accept the danger. There have also been large differences in income, the differences between normal labour income — what is defined as general income — and capital income. It was also the representative Nordtun inside his post. That's true, because at the beginning of the 1990s, what we're comparing to, there was no big profit in the Norwegian companies. At that time it was bad in Norway, it was a recession, and then there was also little dividend that was collected. Then we had reduced unemployment, the wheels were in turn, and there was a profit in the companies. In fact, a premise for the 1992 tax compromise was that we would not lock the capital into the companies, as in the past, where capital was locked in and not taken out and placed in alternative investments that gave greater returns. That's why you added up to a system where you had to invite some of the profits to be collected through dividends and reinvested, and that's what happened. But then the Workers' Party comes and criticizes and is worried about it later on. The point is that since the 1992 tax compromise, new issues in Norwegian business have been reinvested more each year than has been the case in share dividends. I think it's important to have that bottom when you're discussing this. As I mentioned earlier, there is a strange decision we are going to take today in the tax law, where we are adopting something that everyone, with the exception of SV, is opposed, namely a new step in the top tax. We're also critical of an increase in the housing tax of 10 pst. which is taken into account. We are also very critical of the deterioration that is now taking place in the sharing model. I noticed that the representative Sørfonn said that the centre was proud of the result that had now been achieved in negotiations with the Workers' Party. We have also noticed that the Prime Minister has been out saying that there is no deterioration in the sharing model in the tax compromise. In fact, I would have thought of getting a little depth of that from the representative Sørfonn. How can it be related that there is no deterioration in the split model when the capital return rate is reduced from 11 to 10 pst.? In fact, there is a calculation, an example from a production company in Eastfold, where a father and two children work, which shows that only the change in the rate of return on capital could lead to a tax tightening of NOK 84 700. Minister of Economic Affairs Sponheim also says that there are no changes in the corporate tax that have any significance for the entrepreneurs. In the setting, we have attached a more complete calculation example, where reduction in depreciation rates for, among other things. commercial buildings and commercial buildings are included. The sum of what is added up to here represents for the company that I mentioned instead, a tax tightening of 222 373 kroner. So it's said from the center that we're satisfied that we've released significant deterioration in the taxation of business. The point is that if we look at the countries around us, they have made up for not insignificant improvements. When you are also concerned about the branchisation in Norway and the move-out head offices, you should understand that the Norwegian tax system should improve, so that we can keep up with the Norwegian jobs. That should be the starting point for that kind of debate. We see in Denmark, for example. that the holding companies have now received a completely different type of taxation and several Norwegian companies are considering moving there. The Ministry of Finance has been taxed in the Nordic region, and it is concluded that the Norwegian tax rate is similar to that of the other Nordic countries. But what the Minister of Finance fails to include in this assessment is the strange wealth tax. In Denmark there is no taxes on wealth, and in Sweden there is no wealth tax on shares if one owns more than 10 pst. in an establishment. Then it is not possible to talk about the importance of Norwegian ownership. If you take 100,000 Hydro shares to Denmark, you don't pay taxes on wealth. If you own them in Norway, you get property taxes on top. I think that if we are to make a comparison, we also have to include the wealth tax in the calculation, a wealth tax that I have also understood that the Minister of Finance is opposed, but that nothing is being done in the arrangement that is now at the bottom. I then take up the Right proposal that is included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e1138	The representative Børge Brende has drawn up the proposal he referred to. As the representative of Børge Brende registered during his speech, the representative Nordtun has asked for the floor in reply. It'll be a string change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e1143	I was a little surprised by the representative Burnde's posts. I perceived it as a long line to me. I sat and listened with wonder – where is Right Policy? It was not mentioned in one word, but it was a ten-minute post from a to bring down this budgetary agreement that has come. I put as a question mark – where is Right Policy? He did not mention anything about a tax bill of 7,1 billion kroner for which the Right is in favour. Where will he take it from? No, that's not what Børge Burnde said. That should Børge Brende say a little bit about – the serious Right Party, where will they cut NOK 7.1 billion? Then I just want to say one thing in addition – about the pensioners. We've overcompensated the pensioners for the minimum deduction. That is beyond what is needed to compensate for the electricity charge. And once again, I would like to stress that we have reduced the added value of the tax reduction rules for pensioners from 3 to 2 pst. I want to ask Mr. Børge Burnde, where is the Right Cutter most to get $7.1 billion? And not least, can't the Right see a single reason for that promise we're making today for those who earn the least in our society, and that there was a need for redistribution? That's my question to Børge Burnde from the Right. Isn't there a need for redistribution when we see that the gap just increases? And then Burnde hangs in that the Workers' Party has now entered for a third step in the top tax. It has been, and remains, in the Workers' Party's programme, and it is the implementation of the Workers' Party's programme when we introduce a new top tax.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e1154	There is a bit of a redistribution of the Nordtun representative. Even with the conversions made by the Workers' Party in relation to the minimum deductions, etc., will, for example: a pensioner comes out worse with the arrangements on which the Workers' Party and Centre have agreed, due, inter alia, to: the violent increase in the electricity charge to which it is charged, at 44 p.m. So I understand that the representative Nordtun on the statistical basis that came from the SSB would not have included an estimate of how the fees increases will turn out. I also naturally appreciate the fact that the representative Nordtun points out that the Right does not support tax increases this year. Last year we were in line with the Workers' Party in relation to the fact that we do not want to tighten taxes and charges. At the time, the Workers' Party said that tax increases would make wage-fixing more difficult. Isn't that true this year? Will not the increases now in progress make it difficult to prepare wages and salaries for spring? The LO manager has at least said that it does. And then the Workers' Party is concerned about the development of unemployment and growth. Now we've had negative growth, as far as I understand, in the last three quarters. Is it then a good idea to bring tax increases? Does the Workers' Party’s reasoning not apply last year? The right adds up to tax increases, as the representative Nordtun quite correctly said, about NOK 4 billion, and then we say no to tax increases of 4.5 billion. I noticed that the representative Nordtun was also concerned about our containment. For example, we do the containment. by introducing a proportion of the sick pay system, not as tough as the social democrats in Sweden have introduced, but we introduce a proportion of it. We also look at business transfers and some other cuts. The point is that in my article I addressed the difficult and problematic changes that the centre has now made, and it is not unreasonable to comment on them, and at the same time you get an illustration of what you are against.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30-lower.ana.ud1662e1166	No more words have been asked for a line, and the line break has ended. The time fixed by the Rules of Procedure for the morning meeting shall be immediately available. Odelstinget now interrupted the negotiations, and a new meeting will be held at 0 p.m. 18 for further handling of case No. 4 and the remaining things on the map of the day.
