ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e26	As adopted at this morning's meeting, Stortinget will now deal with the matter on the supplementary agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e38	In St. prp. No 59 asks the Government for additional appropriations in the 1999 State Budget for the reception of up to 6 000 refugees from Kosovo. Through the treatment of the State budget by the Storting for the current year, the quota for so-called transfer refugees is set at 4250 persons over a three-year period. The background of the document no. The 8-proposals promoted are that the existing mandate will be fully used during this week, i.e. before the Stortinget has dealt with St.prp. No 59. Therefore, in order to avoid the need to stop the refugee recipient from Kosovo for a period of time, a decision on an extended mandate is necessary this week. The need for authorisation for increased refugee quota is related to Norway’s increasing rate of withdrawal of refugees from 300 to 750 per week, on the recommendation of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. It was April 30, that the UN High Commissioner for Refugees sent an appeal to, among other things. Norway to increase the rate of evacuation of refugees from Macedonia. The background to this appeal was the worsening of the Kosovo refugee disaster and the precarious situation that has arisen in Macedonia, where the authorities are not prepared to accept more refugees if the pace of evacuation of refugees from Macedonia is not escalated. If Norway is to be able to follow the recommendation of the High Commissioner, it is necessary to extend the existing mandate. The budget will then address the question of the additional appropriations on the State budget that Norway’s contribution to the NATO operations and the efforts for the Kosovo refugees will entail. Document No The 8 proposals underpinning the process of the Grand Duchy today are limited to the necessary extension of the power to receive transfer refugees from Kosovo. I therefore see no need to go into the other issues relating to the Kosovo crisis that the Storting will discuss later. However, two issues must be said to relate to the quota issue: One issue concerns the concept of transfer refugees, which is the category of refugees that both the existing quota of 4 to 250 persons and the additional quota are concerned. Because this is about refugees taken from the High Commissioner's lists, there can be no doubt, in my opinion, that these are real transfer refugees. In the letter of the High Commissioner of 30 April, it is also clarified that the recommendation concerns refugees such as UNHCR — i.e. the High Commissioner - has chosen. The second issue relates to the legitimacy of the mandate that the Stortinget is today invited to give, whether there is a good enough legal basis to empower the Government to receive 6,000 refugees from Kosovo. The Ministry has stated that there is no need for a separate legal framework to be able to receive these refugees. Reference is made here to the first paragraph of Section 22 of the Foreign Affairs Act and to the first paragraph of Section 78 of the Foreign Regulation. On this basis, I would recommend that the Storting join in the proposal to empower the Government to receive up to 6,000 refugees from Kosovo.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e59	Of course, the Labour Party agrees with the intention of the proposal that we accept 6 000 Kosovar Albanian refugees here to the country. There is no doubt that the Stortinget has previously both given authority to the Government to design the powers required under Section 8 of the Foreign Affairs Act in order to get it legally in place, and in fact agreed that Norway should receive 6,000 refugees. In this sense, the proposal would not have been necessary. On 9 April – which is an important date in Norwegian history – the Government promoted a proposal for humanitarian aid to the United Kingdom in connection with the Kosovo crisis. In that document, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs describes that the Government has agreed to accept 6,000 refugees. Norway has been very early in making such an undertaking, and other countries are now following suit. During the processing of this proposition at Innst. S. No 149 for 1998-1999, almost a total increase in the number of drugrelated deaths. It was one exception – the Progress Party, of course, which had a long tiger in that position as to why they thought that 6 000 quota refugees should not be taken here to Norway but placed in neighbouring countries to Kosovo. So if someone claims that the Storting has not agreed that Norway should take this sensible and necessary initiative to receive these 6,000 refugees, it is completely wrong. However, if it is necessary for everyone – including the Progress Party – to understand that this is a result of the will of the national Parliament, we obviously need to adopt it once more today in an explicit decision. It is not that the Storting has taken an explicit decision to accept 4 250 quota refugees over a period from 1998 to 2000. It is the case that the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has done some good for our ambitions, and this has been joined by the Stortinge by means of a decision to grant. In this way, Stortinget has accepted the government's policy in this area. And when the government has announced that they want to extend the quota to 6,000 refugees, and the Stortinget has joined it, there should be no need for an extra decision since both government and government in connection with the treatment of the Innst. S. No 149 have announced that they will return to the proposals for appropriations in specific proposals. Against this background, of course, the Workers' Party will endorse the intention of the proposal by Mr Johan J. Jakobsen. We fully support the government's policy in this area, and I stress that we have nothing against making double decisions on such an important issue, but that would not really be necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e72	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e75	For the sake of order: a meeting was held yesterday between the responsible State Council and the parliamentary leaders of the Stortinget. During that meeting, a certain degree of uncertainty was created as to whether there was a good enough basis for the decision that a majority in the European Parliament would like to take. It – and only it – is the background for Document No. The 8 proposal is advanced. It is well possible that the representative of Kosmo has a certain right to the fact that the proposal is not necessary, but we found it right when more teams had raised doubts about the basis of the foundation for the implementation of the increased rate of withdrawal of refugees from Kosovo. On this basis, it was considered – and it was actually a conclusion at this meeting – that this was an appropriate way of dealing with this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e82	The next replicator is Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e85	I might have hidden the answer to the line until I had heard the next person. I would like to be allowed to stress that it is not the Workers' Party, but another party in this process, a party which has consistently opposed this refugee policy, which has raised this doubt and in particular provoked this document No. The 8th proposal. From the Labour Party, we have always made it clear that we support this, and we actually believed that the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs had previously confirmed that they had this home, but if not the case – so much so once more.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e92	It is often that political parties outside the guttering hall, and to the extent that also in the guttering hall, give verbal expression to positions and views, but that is usually not good enough. For example, when: The National Audit Office shall carry out constitutional checks on the fact that no more money has been used than has been granted, a formal decision must be taken in the central bank on the allocation of that money. It's not good enough for a majority outside, in the newspapers, to have expressed something. Well, it's not always enough just to do it. So I would like to ask the representative Kosmo a question when he says that it is not necessary to take a formal decision. If I am not completely wrong, a formal decision was taken in Stortinget on an allowance for transfer refugees of 4,250 for the current three-year period, and that is the basis for the government's management. Before that meeting yesterday, which was mentioned, we received, among other things. a letter from the municipal minister to the municipal committee, based on questions from the WCC, where the Government made it known that the considered refugees coming from Kosovo were part of the transfer refugees. It was the government that made known that they considered these refugees to be subject to the quota, and it was the government that made known that they did not have the authority to go beyond the quota without a formal write-up decision. Then I don't understand why the representative Kosmo protests when you want a formal decision that gives the government the authority and the authorities that are going to implement the decisions. Does not the representative of Kosmo agree that sometimes formal decisions are necessary? In the present proposition from last Monday, as he mentioned, there was no decision taken. It was a statement from the Government, and it is not the same as a decision that the controlling authorities, including the Riksaudition, need for their control.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e101	That's about what I thought. While Macedonia and Albania are almost detonated by refugees and Macedonia have so many problems that in this serious situation they consider closing the borders, the representative Hagen is going to run a procedural debate in the Stortinget on appropriations that a majority in the Stortinget has said we are going to give. The Municipal Committee is giving its opinion on this money tonight, and I honestly think that when we are faced with such a situation as we are now in Europe, it is of little value to the Stortinget that a party such as the Progress Party should be allowed to provoke debates on this on the basis of procedural requests. Of course, I have as clear a view as the representative Hagen that we need decisions, but in the same way that the budget proposal for the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs made an indication of, an estimate of, how many refugees they had intended to take in, and to which the Stortinget agreed, the budget subsequently decided on the actual budget allocation, and that will come. It must be understandable, however, that the Biggest must also show some liberality and openness in helping to resolve very difficult refugee situations in Europe. I thought that the commitments that Stortinget had made should be sufficient. We can't make any decision tonight anyway, so formally we only repeat previous connections to the government's arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e108	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e111	Just to finish the previous sequence: it is not the Progress Party that has raised any procedural debate. It's the government that has addressed the Storting and asked for an authority to do what it will do, and it's done in the right way. We are not the ones who have started any debate on this. I would recommend that the Group of the Progressive Alliance vote against this Document No. The 8 proposal, and I will use to a large extent the rationale as Mr. Kosmo and Mr. Jacobsen himself has used. They have said quite correctly, what has been known for the Storting for a very long time, that there is a very acute need to evacuate many refugees from Macedonia, so that Macedonia does not close its borders. It is warned that there is a desperate need. Then we say in the Progress Party: let's help out there, monks! Let's make sure to help so that we can move tens of thousands of refugees from Kosovo out of Macedonia, so that Macedonia does not close its borders. Last Monday we put forward a proposal, which was voted down, to strengthen assistance in the neighbourhoods and to enable refugee camps to be established in Romania and Albania in order to take refugees from Macedonia. We proposed $300 million. kr for that purpose. It was downhearted. It would have helped quite significantly and given a large number of refugee sites, which was not implemented. It's strange that the majority say that now it's urgent with help. Instead of putting help into a large monn, which is of great importance, Norway is restricted to taking out 6,000 refugees who are coming to Norway. We have asked why not Norway, for example. may build and operate refugee camps in Albania, such as: Italy does, and whether there have been any signs from Albania about what Albania wants. In a letter we received from the municipal minister yesterday, the municipal minister wrote the following: «Along with Minister of Justice Dørum, I had meetings with several representatives of the Albanian Government and the country's president for a short time. It was then proposed by the Albanian side that Norway could establish and operate a refugee camp in Albania. Saka is too soon to be judged in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The practical aspects of such an establishment are assessed in dialogue with Albanian authorities.» Why in the world hasn't the government got ahead of this? Why has the government not worked to establish any refugee camps in Albania for perhaps 10,000, 20,000, 30,000, 40,000 refugees instead of spending large amounts to receive a limited number of refugees to Norway? This is where the matter is suspended. It could mean a lot, much more than this 6,000. There you take the time to help while the refugees are suffering. Then we've been asking if there's anything going on to see if it's possible to establish refugee camps elsewhere. In the letter, the Minister of State said: ‘Norwegian authorities have taken an initiative towards Romania and offered to cover the costs of evacuation of 5000 refugees residing in Macedonia and to offer an additional DKK 5 million as a contribution to the cost of living of these refugees, i.e.: means of operating a refugee camp. [[SEK 10 million]] The clay shall be operated by UNHCR. This evacuation has already started.’ So here the government says that it is well aware that it is possible to establish a refugee camp in Romania for 5,000 refugees within the framework of a sum of 15 million. kr. When it is said that there is an urgent need to establish something to remove refugees from Macedonia, it is clear that this is the solution — to establish more refugee camps, for example. in Romania. When you see that you're going to spend NOK 1.2 billion on another matter, it's amazing that you don't want to use it to really do something like monks. For 100 million. Some 25 000 refugees from Macedonia to Romania could be obtained. In this issue, 6,000 are not really like a drop in the ocean, because it does not. At the moment that there are 6 000 more from Kosovo to Macedonia, the starting point for the Macedonians is back. Then what we're saying is that then it must be more sensible to bet on doing it there than spending time, energy and money on receiving refugees to Norway. I've been wondering, what about the non-governmental organizations that are now collecting a lot of money to help down there? Have they asked for more? Can they do anything to ensure that the refugees who come get food, medicine, clothes, tents or other shelters? There are applications for treatment, says the Minister of State, from non-governmental organisations and the United Nations. We're looking for over 100 million. kr for various projects. So there's not much interest in saying yes, fine, let the United Nations get this, so they can make sure that the help needed for the first few days and the first weeks after the refugees arrive is given. You don't. This is a priority. Finally, I would like to say that some people claim that the Progress Party is a frail people, even though we really stand for what most people in Europe are doing in practice. The President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Western Union, Luís Maria de Puig, made a trip to Albania from 20 April to 22 April. On that occasion, he wrote a letter to the Secretary-General of the organisation, where he wrote, among other things: expressed the following: With regard to the refugees, it should be noted that the Kosovars themselves, as well as the people of Albania, the Government of Tirana and representatives of the UN High Commissioner, the OSCE and the voluntary aid organisations, all believe that the only future for the refugees lies in their being able to return to Kosovo. Emigration to a number of countries is not considered a good solution. All these organisations believe that our countries must provide assistance to establish camps in Albania, Macedonia and, in the future, Kosovo. The spread of refugees, although in the name of solidarity, is a poor solution. The President of the Western Union continued: They – the Albanians – encourage the international community to provide financial assistance to Albanian families who care for refugees. That's the exact same thing. I am aware that after April 20-22, the UN High Commissioner has said that more refugees must be taken out of Macedonia. But I'm not familiar with the UN High Commissioner saying it's about taking them around to Western countries. The point is to get them out of Macedonia, so that that country doesn't become destabilized, and so does Montenegro. Then it must be better to deploy the forces to take a large number out of Macedonia and Montenegro, and that can be done by establishing refugee camps in Albania and Romania, which already say yes to doing so. The government has not answered whether it has asked Bulgaria if they would be willing to do so. But it has to be far better politics to use the resources you have, to help many instead of helping just a few, as the majority obviously agrees. We will therefore reject this proposal, because it prevents us from making a real effort for the many in the neighbourhoods.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e150	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e153	Now Carl I. Hagen is trying to create the impression that the Government and the majority of the population are only betting on assisting the refugees in Kosovo by taking refugees to Norway. That's not right. Carl I. Hagen knows very well that here do one more thing at a time, putting in effort in several areas, also in order to help the refugees locally, in Macedonia and in Albania. When the UN High Commissioner for Refugees in an earlier phase asked some countries to slow down the withdrawal of refugees, Carl Ivar Hagen pushed the High Commissioner to his chest. What has happened since, having seen the disastrous development of the situation, has been that the High Commissioner has made a strong international appeal, to Norway and many other countries, to increase the rate of withdrawal of refugees. Hagen tried to create the impression that the High Commissioner has not expressed a desire to increase the rate of refugee withdrawal to some countries. But in the letter I referred to in my post, it is crystal clear that the UN High Commissioner wants and strongly recommends to other countries to do so, and shows, among other things. that the United States, Canada and Australia have now also signed up to take refugees out of Macedonia. My question to Carl Ivar Hagen is: why does Carl I. Hagen have so much less faith in the High Commissioner's assessments this time than he had in the previous phase of this conflict?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e162	Johan J. Jakobsen refers to letters. It would probably be an advantage if the government had made sure that the Storting and the relevant committee had received a copy of these letters. We have previously asked for it without having it, and could repeat it again to the municipal minister if he could please let us get a copy of these letters. I have absolutely recognized the desire to take refugees out of Macedonia. We want to take out far more than the bulk of the population, because we want to establish camps that we should offer to operate in Albania and Romania. A lot more we can help that way. And that's what we should have done from the beginning. Italy operates, as a television report showed the other day, many camps in Albania. Why doesn't Norway do it? Because we have spent time and effort planning to take 6,000 refugees here instead! The UN High Commissioner still has the same main line. But when you have asked many countries to take out refugees, you have instead that by establishing refugee camps in Albania and Romania, we and others could have taken out a large number, that is, concentrated forces on completely different things, and you haven't got that help. And then it's quite natural, when you see from the High Commissioner that the only way to get Norway to help out with refugees is to take them to Norway, that's when you ask for it. It's quite natural, when that's all that Norway really is willing to assess. So Johan J. Jakobsen says you're doing both. Yeah, you've put in $225 million. kr. Very familiar, far from being used, you're sitting on it. They are granted by the Storting and set aside to help in the neighbourhoods. But you want to spend 1,200 million. SEK to help the 6000, on permanent expenditure in the Norwegian community. My answer is: Norway should now have run refugee camps in Albania and Romania, in cooperation with Norwegian non-governmental organisations – not for the 5,000 mentioned here, but for well over 50,000 refugees. Had they followed this line from the beginning, the UN High Commissioner had also stayed on the line that we know the High Commissioner really wants.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e175	Too clearly in this serious matter it becomes clear that for Hagen and the Progress Party, the problem is not that this costs money, but that the refugees come here. What the term ‘western country’ was used about, why the concept of ‘western’ is important, has to be explained by Hagen, as he tries to give a sign that he wants to spend money on refugees in line with others. Then it might not be the price it depends on, but the problem for Hagen is that the refugees come here. I also need to ask Hagen: who are the ‘we’ that Hagen is talking about, who should be able to decide that Romania and Bulgaria will accept the refugees that Hagen sails don’t mean he doesn’t want? Does Hagen mean that Norwegian authorities have such powers in other countries? I had hoped that we would have released this round here. I need to put this into a small context, and today’s Newspaper has done so in a small leader, who says that there is no doubt: ‘Treatment in the acute danger of epidemics in overcrowded camps’, the campaign ‘to save people in extreme need of Norway’ is stepped up. And we might be happy, as it says here, that we have Øystein Hedstrom who dares to say this out loud when Hagen doesn't make it seam, so there's no doubt that we know what the Progress Party really stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e184	The representative, Karin Andersen, is talking about Hagen's problem being yours and yours. Hagen has no problem with this. I think it's actually the other ones that are going to get a good deal of problems gradually, with this way of doing it. We don't have to look for any substitute arguments at all. The daily reports on television show the problems of lack of shelter, food, clothing and medicine. That's why we proposed 300 million last Monday. kr to – to help the Albanian authorities, to help the Macedonian authorities, to try to get money so that the guerrillas could transport food and others into Kosovo for those in need there. That's why we wanted to do something more than the majority last Monday. Still, there are no measures, except those proposed by the Government and the Stortinget granted last Monday, which the majority would like to address to the many. Our wish is to help as much as possible. That's why we're using all this money to help out in the neighbourhoods. The government itself acknowledges the costs – the government believes there are four to one, another account refers 13 to one in terms of costs. If you want to put something into the concept of Western, it is that you often talk about NATO countries, which here have a great responsibility, like the Western countries. In this context, I'm also dealing with Turkey, which has been actively involved with help. So I can just say that our line is the one that also the Government sometimes talks about. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, and I also believe the representative of Kosmo, said that we should help in the neighbourhoods. In other words, for the majority, it is also a matter to be considered: how much help should be given in the neighbourhoods, and how much help should be given by taking refugees to Norway? That's the whole difference. We want to help as much as possible, and then we spend the money where we can help as much as we can.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e195	There may be grounds for recalling that what the Storting deals with is a proposal that reads as follows: ‘The Government agrees to receive up to 6000 refugees from Kosovo.’ The representative Hagen spoke for a long time – I'm in doubt if I dare say hot – about something else. What is clear, however, is that the essence of his contribution was a message that, as the only parliamentary leader in this Chamber, he has a robust enough conscience to ask his group to vote against this proposal. And as far as I've registered, he's also the only one who has enough imagination to pretend that we're facing an alternative: either to take these 6,000 refugees to Norway, or to help refugees in the neighbourhoods. That does not mean the UN High Commissioner. None of the Norwegian aid organisations as Mr. Garden tried to absorb income. In short, it means no one else but the Progress Party. It has never been defined in Norwegian policy in the past as an alternative either to help in the neighbourhoods or to take some refugees to Norway, to show that Norway has an obvious co-responsibility – not just to solve problems on behalf of others, but to show that we are also willing to bear some of the burdens ourselves. It is with respect to report a little sad that there is a political party in Norway that is unable to perceive this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e213	I would like to return to what is the starting point, namely that, after a careful assessment, the large number of refugees, including the Right, decided last autumn that Norway would receive 4,250 refugees from the UN High Commissioner for Refugees in a three-year period, despite the fact that there are probably millions of refugees in different camps around the world. In other words, the amount of people you could help, and who needed it, is very, very large. But the majority said that what Norway is able to accept is 4,250. And then-- snap-- you add to 6,000. It was nice you didn't do it last fall, because the distress was the same. I fully agree that NATO obviously has a special responsibility because things have happened now, but that's why we also have to put the funds in the most appropriate and sensible way. And it's also that Inge Wohnung can't actually use the money more than once either. No one else can either. The majority has set at 225 million. kr for assistance in the neighbourhoods. And today, by decision of 6,000 to Norway, they implicitly say yes to $1,200 million. in 1999 to the 6 000 in Norway. Then you cannot use the same money to help in the neighbourhoods – and help the large number. That's the whole difference. We will do this in a sensible way, in accordance with what the President of the Western Union said and what the vast majority of people in Europe are doing. And as I said, Italy is building and operating many refugee camps in Albania, which are helping many. Norway should also have done so, devoting its time and effort and money to it instead of helping a limited number to Norway and in a way not doing anything about the large number of people who really suffer from it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e220	Every time there's a crisis and we talk about showing a little solidarity with people who are innocently hit by war, Hagen comes up and talks about helping the refugees in their own neighbourhood. Does the Progress Party have anything to do with how big the globe is? It's not much longer from this hall to Albania than it is to Finnmark. If civil war occurred in Russia and two million Russians flowed across the border from Murman County, would the Progress Party oppose the evacuation of refugees southwards from low feed on the Finnish coast, on the grounds that they must be helped in their own neighbourhood? Yeah, we know what the Progress Party thinks about low feed. I know it wouldn't happen. I know that on the day two million Russians crossed the border, the Progress Party would quickly define them as distant cultural and called to the rest of Europe that Norway could not accept the refugees alone. Accepting 6,000 refugees to Norway is about showing solidarity. And in this big deal, we're going to show that we're in solidarity with those who are on the run, hit by the war we've been involved in.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e229	It's under some doubt I'm going up to answer this. I just notice that SV considers it not to be a problem if there were to be two million refugees from Russia to Norway. And I understand that the representative from SV does not understand the difference between showing solidarity with the many and showing solidarity with a few.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e234	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e237	Back to the case: Of course, the right-wing group will support the proposal to give the Government consent to receive up to 6,000 refugees from Kosovo. I want to add: it should just be missing. After hearing Mr. Hagen's main post and the reply, I really feel strongly provoked, but I'm going to try to leave it essentially to say the following: It's turning the case completely on my head to present it so that a grant to accept refugees, who are part of a Western co-responsibility, would stand in contrast to – now and later – making a real effort in the neighbourhoods. It is in the neighbourhoods the main effort will be made, in terms of amounts and numbers. It is entirely up to us to act like the allocation now made, which means spending money to be used later, both in emergency relief work in the neighbourhoods — as we negotiate solutions with countries that are now as simple as the neighbourhoods — and as the reconstruction work comes about. The right will support this work when it comes to it. I have recorded that a number of humanitarian organisations have already asked for money to be spent in the neighbourhoods. I expect the government to handle it as quickly as possible. We also have to set up to support it. I also feel the need to say that I think it is somewhat lower than the dignity of a national Parliament to contribute to a debate on Norway to take part in this now, when countries such as the United States, Canada, Australia, perhaps also New Zealand, which are far from the European area – and one can almost also say the European cultural circle, at least politically – accept refugees from our neighbourhood, from Europe's neighbourhood. Then we should start a debate on this! I guess it's not appropriate to say it any other way than that some of Hagen's sentiments from the United States would probably think that this was a strange debate, a strange debate. In order to return to the case, it is necessary that the Government also follow up the burden-sharing issue, because there are some other Western countries in Europe that do not take part in the co-responsibility either – I will not start naming the countries. Norway has gone ahead here. It has been important political to open what seemed to be closed borders with Macedonia. But other countries should also take their share of responsibility. The burden-sharing was essentially the last reason given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It's still important. Finally, I would like to add that I do not feel the need to add anything in particular to the debate on whether it was necessary to obtain this mandate. The Government has intended – and it is the Government that has taken the initiative, even if this is a Document No. Eight proposals from a government party – that they need this mandate. When the government – and the new municipal minister – puts such emphasis on the form of decisions, I don't think we should oppose them. We support this authority, if it should have been given earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e254	Of course, SV supports the proposal presented today. Norway has a direct responsibility in this matter that is different, far more different than there are in many other conflicts, because we are directly involved on the part of the warring parties. This does not mean that SV believes that our responsibility for other refugees is also reduced, it is at least the same size now. But this responsibility for Kosovo Albanian refugees is particularly great. SV also sees clearly that the need can be greater if the conflict continues to go so badly. Then SV will now give a signal that SV is ready to expand the quota, so that we can continue to take out refugees who need it without excessive and devastating delay and, in cooperation with the High Commissioner, contribute to a reduction in the tension in the neighbourhood. For my part, and for the SV – and I believe for the majority in this Chamber – we just have to bow in deep respect for people and for the authorities of Macedonia, Albania and Montenegro, who have now managed refugee flows that we almost cannot imagine. Nor should we forget that Norway is present in the neighbourhoods. We can't pretend this is a choice between helping here and helping there. It has been mentioned today that the Municipal Committee is dealing with St.prp. No 59. I can say that it is now released just before the Stortinges meeting. A large majority, all except the Progress Party, have been in favour of the appropriations for which the Government is in favour, and have also said that if the situation should improve in the area in which there is now conflict, and that the need to take so many refugees to Norway is not present, we want to use this money directly in the neighbourhoods. It's an important signal. Finally, something I've been thinking about during this debate: It's a cross of thought that every year when we debate how to finance the refugee reception in Norway, it's remarkable that those who talk the most about helping people in the neighbourhoods are the ones who spend the most of the unhelpful money in Norway to receive the refugees here. I hope that this debate can at least contribute to the creation of a majority in order to put an end to that practice.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e272	The left fully supports the present proposal for a decision. It would be pointless if we were to stop the reception of refugees when we know that the UN High Commissioner is asking for an increase in the rate of evacuation from Macedonia. I think there is reason to commend the Government for its power of action in relation to the refugee issue. Norway has had a driving role in this work, and the decision taken when an open to 6,000 refugees was not just an example of follow-up for other countries; it was simply a prerequisite for progress in the work that made Macedonia not to close its borders. The decision to accept refugees in Norway was simply a prerequisite for facilitating assistance in neighbouring areas. We know that today there are 396 000 refugees in Albania. In this situation, it must be seen as relatively absurd for us to discuss whether Norway should accept 6,000 refugees. What we are doing is our contribution to a solidarity between several countries, where helping in the neighbourhoods and accepting refugees in Norway is part of a totality where things are related. There are a small number of refugees we are going to receive in Norway, says Hagen. That is exactly why it should be so curative, of course, to get full support for the proposal for a decision that exists here today. Hagen is right that the main job must be done in the neighbourhoods. For a long time, there will be a need for considerable efforts from all countries that have been involved in this work so far, in the neighbourhood, to remedy the damage caused by the war and to facilitate the return of refugees to Kosovo. So those who have an involvement in helping out in the neighbourhoods, in the coming years, will have the full opportunity to follow up that exposure. It will be exciting to see whether Hagen will be among the most eager to allocate funds in the coming years to the work that needs to be done to meet the huge challenges we face in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e281	It's going to be a string change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e286	I would like to ask a question to the parliamentary leader of the Left. He said the main work must of course be done in the neighbourhoods. Why, then, does the Government and the Left place the main amount of funding that Norway can provide, not in the neighbourhoods, but in Norway? Where is the relationship between what the leader of the left says and what the leader of the left does? The leader of the left says it's about making an effort in the neighbourhoods. Last Monday he voted against a proposal from us for an additional grant of 300 million. kr to help just Albania, who now may have 396 000 refugees – 392 000 yesterday – and who are now suffering economically. Why not help Albania with financial subsidies? Why not respond more quickly to NGOs who are now applying for funds, but leave applications to be treated instead of being finalised once? Where's the relationship between what Left says and what Left does? The same thing is true of the other parties, which say they're in favour of one thing and then they're doing the opposite in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e291	The UN High Commissioner has made it quite clear that it was of great importance for the relief work in the neighbourhood and for the overall management of the refugee situation that Norway, as a country of the past, opened up to the reception of 6,000 refugees in Norway. It was a prerequisite for doing the work currently being done in the neighbourhoods, under the most stable conditions possible. And I said in my post that there are two sides to the same thing to be offensive to help in the neighbourhoods and to take on the obligation of receiving 6,000 refugees in Norway. What I further stressed in my speech was that the great test of our willingness to help in the neighbourhoods is to take the force necessary for the reconstruction of this area to be the way it should be, and that we are facilitating the conditions for refugees to return to Kosovo and establish the most normal life possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e298	: More than one word has been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e303	The Christian People's Party supports the proposal promoted by the representative Johan J. Jakobsen to receive 6,000 Kosovo Albanian refugees. I will also give tribute to the Government for its efforts in connection with what has already been done. I had hoped that there could be a total accumulation that had ended up on this matter. What we have now heard is that it is very important to maintain continuity in the reception of Kosovo Albanians. So we don't have time or money to stop this important work. The High Commissioner has given clear signals to increase the output, and that there is a huge need in the neighbourhoods for this to be implemented. The Christian People's Party believes that what we are now deciding on here today is part of this important work. We also believe that what has been said, among other things. clearly from the Right, if also to participate in the neighbourhoods, will of course be followed up in the forthcoming work. We will end up with the proposal under consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e308	The debate on the matter on the supplementary agenda is over. The President will propose that there be a vote on the matter in connection with the voting on the ordinary agenda later this evening. – It is seen as a confirmation. We're going back to the ordinary agenda. One continued with the handling of
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e328	The basis for today's communication was laid in many ways as a result of the defence committee's treatment of the long-term communication last year. As the representative of Bjørn Tore Godal said, it was that the majority of the defence committee felt a clear need to go through the consequences of the investment budgets that seemed to be the result of the treatment of the long-term communication. And so it's a sad fact that, through various defence commissions and with repeated objectives from the Biggest side, on the basis of long-term messages, the majority of the Biggest has not been able to follow up these objectives with appropriations. With this in mind, it is the Progress Party's understanding of the need for this document that the Stortinget must be presented and made visible the consequences of what is now said to be 'yes' on the investment side. It is imperative that this sink in, so that one understands that when one starts heavy investment projects, the horizon must not slip. Therefore, the document presented to us by the Ministry and the Government is a document that clearly underlines the horizon until 2006. Of course, the Stortinget takes annual budget decisions, and then it can be very easy as we experienced in the budget for this year: suddenly, money was needed during a balancing process, and the Government then chose to balance with the protection obligation and the operational consequences of the Defense – without it being possible at that time to say what the consequences would be. But then it was that Stortingen tried to correct the course, which I have been on before. These kinds of operations are very unfortunate, not least because as well as a total expansion had taken into account what was necessary to follow up the objectives – and the government itself had set up a race, as the representative Bjørn Tore Godal explained earlier. Then you get into trouble – and then you think this is going well. We're talking about large amounts, that's right, but very much of this is tied up as a result of long-termity. Of course it is, it has been and should be, room to add about the Defence Organisation to meet the demands of the future. We've been doing that for a long time, and we'll keep doing that. The Defence Committee has also pointed out that the management apparatus of today is too large in relation to what is to be managed. In this, of course, there is a saving potential on the operating side, but if this savings are not converted into the second part of the enterprise or into investment, the same thing goes wrong. So, when proposing savings and organisational changes, the Storting must also maintain that the savings are to be included in the future framework. Otherwise, there is no incentive to release funds — and in my view, it is also very important. Through this budget, we have in many ways a common position on it because the Government has gone out and invited the Stortinget to an investment plan, and here the entire committee has supported the main features of the Government's proposal. That's good, that's excellent. So it's going to be a constant. When we know how long it takes from large, complex weapon systems to come to the thinking stage until the final decisions are reached, until these means of fighting are decommissioned, taken over – so it is often horizons in eight to ten years – it is important that the investments you make are also relevant at the time when you put them into operation. From the point of view of the Progress Party, we find that the large projects listed in the document meet these requirements – but again: If you change the course so that you have to renegotiate contracts, or cut down on production series, you lose a huge amount of money that you never win again – and so you don't want to build up under the profile you initially wanted. It is also the case that the defense has balanced on a hairy egg, in the balance between operating costs and investments, and unfortunately we have recorded that investments over time have been tapped for the benefit of maintaining operations. This cannot continue. When the Government invites the Storting to adopt this investment profile, it is under a clear premise, as I read the Government, that during the acquisition period of the frigates you should add 6,000 million. kr on the ordinary framework – which I see as a planning framework as described in this document, plus/minus – that will enter the frigate project. Failure to do so will have significant consequences for frigatan production – it may be – but it will also have enormous consequences for the other material projects, which will then come under pressure. And if you don't keep your mouth shut about the big, heavy projects that this document deals with, it will have huge consequences for the smaller projects, which are another part of the investment profile that has been drawn up, for example. personal armaments, personal equipment on the soldiers, so that men do not make up the large amounts of today's investment budget, but feel quite powerful where this is used. It's this thing that has to be fixed, because if you slip here, it's all going wrong. As far as other parts of this document are concerned, I would just like to point out that this has contributed to a renewed debate on the defence, which was also discussed by the representative Bjørn Tore Godal. But not only that, the participation by the Norwegian side through what has happened in the former Yugoslavia, has also helped to focus on the balance of defence we are going to have to pursue in the future, the balance between our defence policy and what needs to be done in the form of joint participation in international operations. The fact that today's defence economy is not good is quite fine, and everyone has to take it inward. But we're not just solving this with appropriations alone, it needs action within existing organisation. We will probably have a basis later in the discussion on the balance between a defence obligation and a more professional defence. It is not in itself part of this debate. But there has been some attention in the media about the Defence, both as a result of the participation abroad, and as a result of the consequences here at home. And as the representative of Bjørn Tore Godal said, that debate is positive, and I think it's okay that we grab hold of it, because it's useful for the Defense. It is also useful to make the consequences of long-term thinking visible. So to this with the government's obvious need to put down a sample that's going to look at the defence structure in the future, so go in as an intermediary, as I see it, in the work towards the next long-term message. Now – and I think it’s important to underline this – Storting itself has taken an initiative to get four-year cycles on the long-term messages. The assumption was that the messages were to be submitted to Stortinget in the last year a big deal was put together, and that was the time to raise your eyes in the next four years. We have previously raised the question of whether this sample may have any significance for what is Storting's intention, and I have understood the Prime Minister that it will not. But I find it natural to address the following questions to the Minister of Defence: Is it so that the Minister of Defence can now clearly say that the long-term message is to be presented to the Stortinget as requested by the Stortinget? And can the Minister of Defense also say something about the role this selection is going to play in what is going on, where the Defense does its job, and where the Department should normally deal with the matter politically before it is presented to the Stortinget? So we haven't seen any need for this, just like the Working Party and the Right. But if the government absolutely insists on setting down such a mini-commission, they must do so, but then it is a clear premise that this should not be an excuse in relation to what the Storting has asked for. Some teams that have a significant influence on Norwegian defence planning, the Swedish Defence Research Institute, have raised questions as to whether this investment profile should be covered at all. I understand that from one point of view, that if the Storing did not follow up, there would be problems that would be significant. I have the confidence in the Storting, with the basis that is now given, that the Storting will also, for the future, be concerned about what is the main prerequisite, namely a stable resource access, of course, by having a continuous staggering of structure and other, which, once again, must necessarily be within the framework of the creation. It will then be possible and proper to proceed. But it will be completely irresponsible to go on with something that is not followed up at all times. Some other representatives have said something about the frigates. I'm not going to go into that matter very much. We would like to see what the Minister of Defense will present to the Storting in the near future. But I would like to say clearly that a consequence of the document we have here is that 12 billion kroner are put at the disposal of the frigate project. The operational requirements have been unambiguous. It must, in my view, govern the way in which the department deals with this further. And from the representative, Bjørn Tore Godal, it was also stressed that there must also be room for Norwegian industry, where Norwegian industry can contribute something that can increase competence and other things. But there is a possibility for the ministry to have through the frameworks and leadership given, and with the international tendering procedure that is now being dealt with in the ministry. I'm not going to go any new MTB round, just notice that if you don't increase the frames, something else has to shift. And I understand the Council of State and the Chief of Defense that it's going to be problematic. I just want to appeal to the Right and the Labour Party that if you stand on what you have now, you should also clearly say what else is to be shifted, and what down priorities must take place unless the most desirable thing is that these two parties are able to increase the budget framework. So I'm going to allow myself to have some doubts about that. With this I recommend setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e366	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e369	The framework for the long-term notification and investment profile is – to use a popular concept – extremely large. There's a lot of money, and Røssordne now expressed a little doubt at the end of his post if it was possible to get this done, and said it would cause problems if you didn't get it as a whole. Then there's reason to ask, when he said earlier in his post that he has a belief that this is going to go, what kind of experience he builds this trust in the budget framework on, when we've freshened up the debate on far less sums in the last year's budget. I have recorded that the debate on the defence has also increased in the usual media lately. Sjøl I have been following a part of the defense's internal journals recently and registered there that the representative Røsjorde has taken a very strong stand for changes within the existing organisation, which he has now also made in his post. Then I need to ask the representative Røsjorde whether it is such that he sees a much lower defence activity in North Norway, that the defence activity, and perhaps especially the Army's activity in South Norway, should be increased, and whether Røsjorde can also say something about the possible consequences of this for a large investment project in which many of us have been strongly involved, namely the region of Eastern Europe. Wouldn't such a change mean a lot change in usage and increased usage of this field? And had it not been true that the consequences – i.e. changes within existing organisation – had been clarified before the decision was made?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e376	The new thing about SV is that they now recognise that there may sometimes be a need to use weapons in a conflict or in a situation where things are locked down. But SV has never been willing to help Norwegian soldiers and officers, including those we send out, get a proper training basis. There is nothing in SV's policy that has promised this. The SV's position has been largely the cheapest defence possible. But when it suits SV in their politically difficult situation, the tool, the defense, must be there for SV's use, without training. It's the most serious thing in this. That SV has internal problems with this matter, I fully understand. But SV as army commanders seems to be something far from what you should be recommending. It usually goes wrong. And so now they are also about to jump out of what they were so very concerned about when it came to the efforts in Kosovo. If you go in and do something, you also have to do it so that you get results, and then you don't use the angled angled angled angled angled angled angled angled angled angled angled angled angled angled angled angled angled angled angled angled angled angled angled angled angled angled angled angled angled angled angled line. It was mentioned by the representative Andersen that I would be in doubt. I said that the Swedish Defence Research Institute was in doubt if the Stortinge would stick to its appropriations. But I also said at the beginning of my post that I am optimistic. I said that when so many parties agree on a level of appropriations like this, and with the clear consequences that the Stortinget has drawn here, then I think that the same parties will actually be able to do it. But then you have to do rehearsal exercises, and rehearsal exercises are probably familiar with SV, at least in some fields.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e383	I just notice that the representative Røsjorde instead of answering the question, which is serious and serious, chooses to harp and make some claims that are actually groundless. When the representative Røsjorde claims that SV wants the defence not to be trained, he must have followed very poorly in the debate that SV has tried to conduct around the region of Eastern Europe. If Røsjorde is present when we're going to debate another matter later today, he might get a slightly different idea of SV's attitudes than what he's now trying to spread. I think it is sad that there should be such inaccuracies, but I try once again: is it not true that if we get a smaller defense, then a less defence must become less somewhere? When, on repeated occasions, Røss grounde has said that he wants to reduce the movement, it has to, at my discretion, for example. means a reduced defence in North Norway. What will be the consequences of this, for example? for the army or other defense units in South Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e390	The future structure of the defence must be decided by the Stortinget at a later stage. One thing, however, is clear: there will be an increasing need for training and training of the soldiers who will have their primary training in this country, and more intensively for those soldiers who will probably need to learn to interact with international efforts, which will need to learn to interact with complex new weapon systems. It is precisely the region field of the East to catch. There will be no change in the need for this. It's a misunderstanding if someone thinks that you have practice fields in South Norway, and in North Norway for the sake of the case, which fully meets the need of the future Defense. It is already here today, and we have simply too bad a way already. It is in many ways a pity that the Eastern Region was not developed at a much earlier time. But the SV's contribution to providing these areas of practice has been zero, and I allow that to be established. It is not the SV that has been the driver for our soldiers to have the opportunity to train and learn to cooperate between modern weapon systems. But they want them where the day SV needs them. And it's not a harelation, it's simply to confirm what SV has been through. As for the relationship between South Norway and North Norway, there will obviously be a need for presence in both parts of the country in the future, which is now. How this will happen through any changes in our structure, yes, we have to look at that in the future. But it would be very unwise if investments made over a long period of time were to be flattened in North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e397	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e400	What we are going to consider today is – as mentioned earlier – a follow-up to the Stortingen decision in the treatment of St.meld No. 22 for 1997-98. The investment profile we have today is unusual because it plans for two periods, and it has not been a tradition to do here in Stortinget. But when we are facing such large and important investments, long-term sustainability is important. It's also a big challenge. Planning over this long period will lead to a greater degree of uncertainty, especially for the last part of the period, 2003-2006. The need for material investment will be around $55 billion in 1998. For property, construction and civil engineering there will be a need for approx. $13 billion in 1998. The government here presents an investment profile such as: submits a plan for the financing of the frigates. $6 billion should be within the defence framework, while $6 billion should be lifted outside, also because the defence framework should not get a curve that goes up and down, like the stock curve in the East. Many have asked: Why frigates? The frigates will improve our ability to protect shipping lines at sea, to deal with crises, to assert Norwegian sovereignty, and will also be able to participate in international operations. Fighting light purchases are the second major investment we are facing. After the government's proposal, this will be phased in a little later than the frigates. These shall replace the lost F-16 aeroplanes and the phased F-5 aeroplanes. The cost framework is $10.5 billion in 1998. These two projects will require substantial funding during the period, but on the basis of an overall assessment, the acquisition of fighter aircraft will be extended somewhat in time if necessary. This is mentioned in the message, but I find reason to stress it here, so the gentlemen Godal, Godal and Røss soil should not run to the press completely incomprehensible for this, and raise their loud voices if – I repeat if – this should happen. The coastguard vessel Svalbard is the few mentioned here. The budgetary implications in 1999 had to be somewhat shifted in time, but one would consider a possible start to the acquisition in the context of the 2000 budget. With regard to the MTBs, we in the Christian People's Party and the Government will assess the consequences it will have for the project to lose the competence built up in Kværner Mandal. But this has to be measured against the receiver of the defense, the testing of the vessel, the consequences for other projects and, of course, the economy. I could like to challenge the Workers' Party and the Right, who in the vote do not respond to the challenges outlined by the Government: Should there be more funding? Are other projects, frigates or acquisitions to be deprioritized to the Army? The Right Party and the Labour Party have taken on board the fact that the defence budget is already very under pressure of operation, and what consequences can this have? I also have to comment on the Workers' Party spokesman who uses the reason that the point of this message was to make visible the investment need that Stortinget would face. It's underlined by more people here, and I agree with that. But it kind of loses a little bit when he says that compared to the MTBs, it's supposed to be 50 million. $50 million. And then we'll see. There's a confusion between these two arguments. I think it might be to fool a community by not giving any clearer signals than that. Finally, I would like to say that the guidelines established by St.meld. No 22 for 1997-98, is followed up by this two-year profile, but the annual appropriations – whether we like it or not – will be determined by the annual budgetary procedure, as foreseen in the long-term communication.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e421	The General Report on the Investment Profile of the Defence presents an overall plan for the investments, which also reveals the main individual investments. The government follows up the question of the planned frigate acquisition in the notification. The Communication follows the guidelines for the activities and developments of the defence in the period 1999-2002 in line with the decisions taken by the Stortinge during the examination of the long-term notification. The Government maintains the main message of the long-term message, with a balanced defence, the task spectrum of which is the design of the strength structure, maintaining a credible invasion defence in one part of the country as the most demanding task. The need for investment in Defence is relatively high, all the time when many defence weapon systems are becoming immature or have become too old in relation to life expectancy. The investment needs up to 2006 are, for example, at a high level, DKK 68 billion – properties, constructions and installations included. This will be particularly significant in the years 2002-2006, as investments in 6th division and replacement of old frigates and fighter aircraft will take place at the same time. The Government states that half of the costs associated with the acquisition of new frigates are to be financed in addition to the basic framework of the defence budget. In order to meet the overall needs of the defence, the acquisition of frigates and fighter aircraft will be a high priority. It is precisely these individual investments that will also require the maximum resources. The government will follow up the investment strategy set out in the long-term communication in order to reduce long-term bonds and increase the freedom of action to make updates, adjustments and adjustments to the strength structure. This will be done through the use of options, the purchase of smaller series and the purchase of used material, where appropriate. However, the elements of such a strategy must always be assessed on the basis of what will best serve the overall needs of the defence. It is important that the investment profile is maintained as set out in the notification. This includes, inter alia: depending on the evolution of operating costs. The ambition of the long-term message to stabilise the operational costs of the defence must be realised, which still requires conversion in all parts of the defence. It is known that the former Chief of Defence has expressed a critical opinion on the possibilities for following up the main task of defence, the invasion defence in a part of the country, with the financial framework for the period defined in the long-term communication, and that the current budget profile allows this only until 2006. It is important to take inward the signals provided by the head of defence, but at the same time the head of defence also has a key role in relation to the effective use of the funds put at his disposal, so that the objectives can be achieved. The Committee is pleased that the Government maintains the strength structure and the mission spectrum of the defence to which the Stortingen joined in the course of the long-term communication last year. The Committee is also pleased with the proposed arrangements for the financing of frigates. Of a total cost of DKK 12 billion, it is proposed that DKK 6 billion be taken outside the normal framework of the Defence Agency, while the remaining DKK 6 billion are financed under this framework. This is the full opening-up of the Committee. According to the suspension, it may appear that the Committee has been divided as regards the financing of international operations in the second quarter. I'm not going to go into that any more, there's a case about that later this evening. So that's not the way it is, but we'll get back to that. A majority of the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Right, points out that there must be consistency between the objectives set out in the long-term communication and the annual budgets. The long-term notification set the following objectives for the financial framework: inflation adjustment in the first two years, real growth of 0.5 pst. the following two years, and in addition, the costs of international operations will be allocated outside the defence budget. In this case, then, it is stated that DKK 6 billion of frigate investment is granted outside the ordinary budget. The autumn of 1998 was exceptional. High interest rates, low exchange rates and low oil prices required action in fiscal policy. The measures taken at that time in relation to the 1999 budget have had an impact on domestic, business and defence benefits. This has provided the basis for continuing the long-term message. On one specific point – which has been discussed by many – there is disagreement in the Committee between the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre Party on the one hand, and the Labour Party and the Right on the other. The disagreement occurs at the time of the phase-in of MTBs. Based on the substantial investment needs that exist in the near future with regard to new frigates and new fighter aircraft, and with the defence chief’s priorities in the material sector, it will not be possible to continue the MTB project before 2003 in the view of the Centre Party. Testing of the front-series vessel will then be completed and a new missile for combating targets will also be available not long after that. In this particular case, it is important that the Storting knows to give priority. As far as I can see, there is no basis for changing the priorities proposed by the Government. These priorities are also consistent with the defence chief's priorities. Finally, a few words about SV's suggestion. We are already working on the preparations for a new long-term notice. The notification arrives at the end of this landfill period. The Prime Minister has not long since announced that he wants to put down a sample to look at the main lines of defence. The Committee also had some comments on this in its last budgetary position. I therefore feel that the process that SV has outlined and requested, which is a very rigid and large process, is already well under way, and that there is no need to take the decision SV invites us to here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e447	The position of the SV can be summarised as a title in the Evening Item a few days ago: «Expose the investment plans». These are not my words, but they are words from people who are considered far more defence-friendly than what SV is. We believe that it should be postponed because this investment plan does not answer all the questions we have in relation to the defence and security challenges we face. Not even those who adopt the investments today will be able to finance them. We have seen crossroads that investments which seem very necessary in the fundamental debates fall when we come to the budgetary negotiations. Now we've seen the cost. 70 billion is a terrible amount of money, in addition, the costs of international operations, which are high today, and which unfortunately we see for us are also going to be high in the future. In the debate on the defence budget on 4 December last year, the Labour Party’s Bjørn Tore Godal said that the defence budget was being dealt with in a situation where children and old people feel maltreated in the budgetary process. That was a pretty correct description. The fight for the crowns is not only inside the defense, which we are now talking about, but also between the defense and other important areas. It will continue to do so in the future. Will today's economic situation force a new concept, ask the chairman of the Defence Committee, Hans J. Røsjorde, in an article in Norway's Defence in January this year. He goes on to say that today's situation requires honesty from both politicians and defenders. It is rare that I agree with Røssjord as I am this time. The consensus might end with the description of the situation. We probably have a little different ideas about what this concept should contain, but maybe not as different as Røss soils think. There is also a great deal of disagreement in the defence of what is most important if priority is to be given to which investment is to come first. That disunity has come up little. It has appeared in part of the Defence's internal journals, but has been lidped, among other things. by former Chief of Defence Solli. Now you have to go out in the open, to say it in the professional language. The head of the Swedish Defence Research Institute, Nils Holme, has publicly stated many times that there is now a large-scale government, a bag and bag strategy that no one can afford, or that it is at least difficult for anyone to obtain a majority because when the knife is put on the throat and the budget is to be aged. If we do all the giant projects at the same time, it will end up with a scandal, where the projects come after random budget compromises and only bitwise. I am afraid that we will then end up with a result that is neither the answer to the thought behind the defence concept now, nor is the answer to the thoughts that SV makes about the need for a new defence, or to the challenges that they have that have a different view of the matter, because the long-term message had somehow expired on the date before it was adopted. One scenario is that today, a reasonably up-to-date 16-year-old can get into the Pentagon databases. It's happened! If you want to paralyze a modern country, you have to paralyze and disrupt communication systems, both military and public. Of course, it is a matter of protecting the military far better than the public, but if a framework is what is involved in communication across society, a fast-paced society is out of play. Security in this area is neglected, and it's very difficult. Bacteriological warfare and threats have also been in focus in recent months. Here the defense has confirmed that we have no readiness. With our long coast and our oil and gas activities, it is obvious to SV that the Maritime Defence and Coast Guard must play a central role, and investments here may need to be given higher priority than others. The last few days' communications from the Defence of Technical bankruptcy in some arms are, of course, a feature of the budget debate, but there is also a reality in the communications. Not least, there may be an article in the debate on a future concept. We do not want that debate to be left to the military, to NATO or to a fast-working Commission, as the Government wishes. We want and believe that the interest in these issues that has now increased, among other things. in view of the tragic events in the Balkans, it is appropriate to exploit this discussion in depth and in order for many to participate. I have a feeling that those who now say they're going to fix this because they've been doing it before, they're snorting it in. I think that might be very damaging to the Defense; right now maybe the understanding of the Defense is present because we have an emergency situation, but if this is a situation that will last, we can't say. We also have challenges in dealing with crises that we are now looking at in the Balkans. In our view, they should be handled in international law, but one should not become paralysed, and that is important. It has not been easier after Kosovo, despite the willingness in Kosovo to intervene in order to prevent abuse. But the way this has happened has not solved the mission, and it has put the United Nations back as a conflict resolution. That NATO now takes on that role, SV disagrees. Peacekeeping and peace-building operations may provide the defence with the justification they have now lacked in Norway. SV believes that this must happen in the UN, and that one must think Nordic in its implementation. In St.meld No. 30 for 1997-98 on Nordic cooperation, the political objective is to strengthen and deepen the dialogue on security and defence policy between the Nordic countries. Reference is made to successful Nordic cooperation within IFOR, now SFOR, in the former Yugoslavia and the strengthened relationship between the Nordic countries in the security and military fields. In 1997, NorthCAPS came and the aim is to develop a ‘common peacekeeping unit up to the Brigadier-General’, which will cover all areas of defence, it states in this message. That's what Stortinget has joined in, and there's a development that many of us support. It is right to turn the defence's efforts into peacekeeping and peace-building efforts, but it must be done in Nordic cooperation, and it must be done under the UN. And then there were questions here if SV didn't think these forces were going to practice. Yes, we do. We've actually outlined one possible solution that we think would strengthen this, namely that we have to do this together with others, and especially with Nordic neighbouring countries. We believe that time will show that there is a far more forward-looking solution than now to establish a field that the Defense probably would have wanted to be bigger and have come before, but that, as it is now, does not solve the practice needs that the Defense actually points to that they have. Peace-building activities must also be given a completely different and central place in the international security policy strategy — and in the Norwegian. What could we not do in the Balkans, for example. Ten years ago, if we had spent the same amount of money now spent on the war, building democratic, liberal and popular movements, building contacts, and strengthening all the forces that work for peaceful coexistence between people. We didn't. It's too late now! We could have done it five years ago when the Kosovo Albanians were still running nonviolent resistance. Afterwatching is only useful if a learner learns something of it. Therefore, efforts before situations arise need to be reinforced. Such efforts must be given greater space, both economic and security policy. It is not possible to limit expenditure when the armed conflicts are in progress. The build-up after damage in retrospect will be incredibly much more expensive than an effort in advance. We have to include this in the picture when we assess where we are going to spend the money. Of course, human suffering cannot be estimated at a cost. And what hatred, sorrow and fear bring, and what cost it entails, is also impossible to establish. So to this, the future defense will be less than today. I think most of it speaks for it, both because we see that the international part of it will increase because there is a need for it, and because it is difficult to obtain a majority for the economy that needs to exist, even for those who want to invest after the long-term message that we have today. If the defense is going to be smaller, it has to be smaller somewhere. It'll mean centralization and moving. In SV, we think that debate should not be bit by bit, or from place to place, but as a whole, so that we could actually get a connection in this which was good also in terms of defence policy, and that we could also look at the regional policy effort that needs to be put in place to balance any of this. That is why we are proposing the creation of a new defence commission. We believe that the treatment of the long-term message, as it has been added up to now, is actually not enough. We wanted this mandate to be presented to the Stortinget, and we wanted, of course, if the proposal had been given a majority – we understand that it does not get – that the parties had been given a conference on the composition. There are many who probably want to hear over SV as an irresponsible party in defence policy. But I see that the responsible thing we can do now is take care of. 1. that we have a concept that responds to the challenges of the future 2. that there must be consistency between objectives and funds 3. that the place of investment in a new concept must be clarified before a set of investments that lock firm money and structure. The need for defence must also be balanced against other needs of society, and the credibility of defence, which is very important, is not strengthened by adopting the investment profile as it stands. We end up with half-finished and poor solutions, and then we do not care for our international interests or our international obligations. I would like to raise the SV's proposal that has been distributed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e504	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e507	The starting point for today's debate lies in Stortingen's treatment of the long-term communication for 1999-2002, St.meld. No 22 for 1997-98, and Innst. S. No 245 for 1997-98, where the Stortinget instructed the Government to promote for the Stortinget an overview of future investments in the Defence. St.meld. No 23 is the Government's response to this imposed. The size must be said to have got what Stortinget asked for in June last year, which is a relatively consistent committee attitude. At the same time, it has to be right to say that the most interesting thing about the Storing Message is not what it says, but what is not there. What is the actual fact is that the price increase in military material is far greater than the normal price increase. This is linked to the large development costs of new technological military materials. Everyone agrees that we in the Defence must turn the resources from operating costs to material investments. This will create debate and require determination from the Storting, but this debate will come next year, when we get FS 2000. This brings me to the more informal basis for the Storting's handling of this matter. Despite the fact that in the 1990s we have implemented the most profound change in the Norwegian defence structure throughout this century, it has been carried out without any particularly wide debate beyond the small community of especially defence policy interested here in the house and in the trade unions. The budget for the four-year period has been amended accordingly. You could say that never so wrong that it was not good for anything! The submitted draft budget marks as well a marked departure from the scheme that the Government itself had in its long-term message, and to which the Stortinget joined last June. This gave broad groups an eye to the importance of predictability and long-term thinking. The defense cannot be built up and down according to the principles of draws. Through the debate on the long-term communication, we were able to clarify a number of framework factors, the sum of which eventually drew an image of an organisation in which questions can be asked about whether we, as politicians, have been good enough to provide the defence with the necessary framework conditions, while at the same time being very eager to impose the same defence-related new mission. The Defence Manager pointed this out through his attachment to the long-term announcement, and later the Director of the FFI described in detail what he calls the double imbalance in the Defence. In the evening post on Friday 30 April, the renegade chief of defense handed over a deportation. There is reason to hear carefully what the responsible heads of defence say. Those are the ones who know where the shoe prints. In this perspective, today's debate raises a dilemma. Even if we are not going to make a formal decision on investment through the Storting's treatment of this big message, we are at risk of spending time on leadership that binds innovation and new priorities related to our future defence structure, doctrines and concepts. It is this dilemma that the director of the FFI has challenged us through his statements in the Evening Post on 30 April 1999. However, I would like to comment on the four major projects. In the case of the frigates, I assume that the government will give a thorough mention in the investment proposition that comes in a week's time. New fighter aircraft have to come, we see the need clearly in Kosovo, and the number and type we have to come back to later. In the case of the coastguard vessel ‘Svalbard’, in the light of the current yard crisis, I will ask the Council of State to consider carrying out this project and assume that the budget for the autumn refers to the start-up date. The matter on which the Committee disagrees is the starting date for the construction of MTBs of the SKJOLD class. The Defence Committee also had the pleasure of seeing and experiencing the prototype yesterday, and I think everyone was very pleased. What is the problem is that trials have to take their time, and harvest and winter are needed enough. On the other hand, the skills of Mandal must not be lost because of excessive time or unnecessary bureaucracy. The most tragic would be if all the tests were successful, and that the yard in Mandal had meanwhile been laid down. Then we have to rebuild competence, and millions of dollars have been wasted. It's important that the MTBs come. They shall be the mobile platform to replace all the coastal artillery gates that have been laid down. This debate takes place in a situation where our country is de facto at war. Neither the long-term nor the investment profile can take account of such negative developments in European security policy. Therefore, it is important that we now stand together behind the alliance's strategy and for a time allow party political markings to be dominated by the need for national unity and our role as a credible alliance partner. There is no doubt that we are facing major national challenges that need to be resolved in a larger and more comprehensive framework than what today's tabloidized media world adds. We will therefore await the defence manager's further work on FS 2000, and the next long-term message will be central to what kind of defence we should have at the entrance of the next century. Today’s debate must therefore have the status of a sort of roadside control station towards a broad clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e537	The defence is ahead of major initial investment in the coming years. The message we are discussing today assumes that approximately NOK 68 billion is planned to be used for initial investment even ahead. in 2006. So this is not a small amount of money we're talking about, but unfortunately not too much to allow the defence to develop according to the course that the long-term message draws up. The investment profile is based on a professional-military recommendation as to which spill-overs and capacities should be prioritised over time in order to achieve the level of ambition of the long-term message. Defence planning is a comprehensive and complex process, the long-term planning horizon of which is a necessary prerequisite. However, I would like to point out that all long-term plans will be filled with uncertainty, and it is emphasised that all the figures in the communication are planned and that the actual funds are allocated through the annual budgets. Therefore, minor deviations would not mean that the main lines of the Government’s defence development are not fixed. The new frigates shall replace the frigates of the OSLO class, which are now definitely ripe for replacement. I would like to emphasise in particular that the role of multi-use has been crucial for continuing to bet on frigates in defence. I have noted with satisfaction the suspension of the broad support for the Government's proposal, that half of the costs are financed as a supplement to the basic framework of the defence budget. In the case of fighter aeroplanes, it is planned to acquire 20 fighter aeroplanes with an option of another 10. The cost framework is calculated for approx. 10,5 billion kroner, and the two suppliers of the F-16 and Eurofighter aircraft were requested in February this year. Both the frigate and fighter aircraft project will otherwise be presented to Stortinget in a separate proposition in the near future. In the Communication, the Government proposes to take a decision on the serial production of SKJOLD missile torpedo boats during the period 1999-2006. The Government considers that it is necessary to wait until 2003 at the earliest. I would like to stress what I have said earlier, that it is not economic for any previous start-up, and an accelerated acquisition would put further pressure on an already strenuous situation. The defence vessel under test must be carefully evaluated before a serial production decision is taken. Finally, the development and possible phase-in of new Norwegian sea target missile, which is the SKJOLD weapon system, will only be completed long after 2000. The Government has assessed the desire for earlier start-up of production but considers that, for the above reasons, the MTB phase-in phase-in can be done at the earliest in 2003. In St. Report. No 23 also outline plans for the acquisition of a new coastguard vessel, KV «Svalbard». The project has been pushed out in time due to the need to clarify the framework of the project and the tightening of the 1999 budget, but the Government will decide on the start-up of acquisitions in the context of the 2000 budget. In order for the plans contained in the notification to be implemented, the defence of the coming years will have to focus a great deal on continuing the change and development processes undertaken to address several major challenges – first of all, the operational problem. Without good governance and control, the defence will risk having to eat from the investments, with the consequences this will have for material acquisitions. In order to govern and direct defence through these challenges, it will be necessary to take difficult decisions that could conflict with them. In addition to internal challenges, reasons that the Government itself does not have complete control over, such as macroeconomic developments and changes in the security policy framework conditions, may have an impact on the plans. Economic instability, which we have experienced in the last harvest, will also have an impact in the coming years on the annual appropriations and thus put additional pressure on the planned investment profile. As far as changes in security policy framework conditions are concerned, the Government will, as you know, take the consequences of the major changes taking place in general security policy developments and in the context of the NATO Summit, and will reduce a rapidly working range of defence policy with broad political participation. The Committee shall provide general and principle advice in preparation for the preparation of the forthcoming long-term defence notice and will start in the summer of 1999 and end in the summer of 2000. The work of the sample shall complement, and not replace, the ongoing and planned work on both the necessary conversion and preparations for the next long-term communication. With St. Meld. No 23 marks the continuation of the long-term message planning assumptions by the Government. A firm follow-up to this policy, a broad political decision-making base through the government-appointed range of defence policy, and thorough studies and analyses in the work on the next long-term communication will provide a good basis for the design of a dynamic and forward-looking defence in continuous change and development.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e558	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e561	The Council of State reiterated the Government’s position regarding the MTBs, and something else was probably not to be expected at this crossroads. However, briefly the following question: An envisaged successful pilot project that is not followed up until 2003 can give the result that the production capacity is not then present, when the Government is thinking of starting up in 2003. Does the Council of State see it as being completely unproblematic, or does it have a strategy for what to do? If we are not in great danger of having 300 - 400 million. kr invested in a successful pilot project, far on the way is wasted in a situation where those to follow up are no longer active and are scattered for all wins? My main question is, what is the Council of State's comment on the many media essays in the last time about how bad it is in the Defence Department? Wide-ranging media have reported much about this, and of course there are many cores of truth in these statements, not least the members of the Defence Committee are embarrassingly aware of that, and we have been in prison many times. I don't think it's so bad that planes are on the ground, and that boats are at berth. It would have been more worrying if everyone were in the air and everyone at sea, with full staff – it would have been very bad economy. But if that's the case now, the Air Force Inspector-General is missing 200 million. kr, which, as far as I can see, is the difference between being a technical bankruptcy and living a fairly normal life, does the Council of State see the possibility of ensuring a certain increase in training and exercise capacity within the significant framework of nearly 24 billion kroner which, after all, is there? Such things need to be able to be solved to something greater than what you get the impression of. Or can we view the play as a pre-post-fection for next year's budget procedure and a result of what had to have agesed down into the system as a result of Halvorsbøle, you suffocate the knives to prepare for the internal battle in Defense?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e570	With regard to the statements that have been made about the defence in the last few days, I do not know the purpose either of the programmes or of the statements that have been made, but that illustrates what we already know, that there is an imbalance between operation and investment and an imbalance between resources and tasks. But at this stage, the long-term message, St.meld. No 22 for 1997-98, fixed, and what will be the future structure of defence, we will first decide on in the next long-term report. In the structure that is now firmly established, there may well be a need for even more resources than what is being used in the defence today, and the person who spoke in the TV programme may need 200 million. kr. But as I go into this matter, see how the conditions are in the defense and find out that we are using NOK 23 billion, I feel that it must be possible to get out the released funds that can improve the balance between operations and investments, by going into and looking at factors that may not have been adequately looked at today. I'm sure it'll have to work. But I'm also convinced that the processes and changes that are already going on have to be implemented at a rate that actually makes you get the profit out, and I'm surprised that some of these processes are going very late. The gain on withdrawal thus becomes small. So my attitude to this is to go hard into that problem and see how we can get out faster and better in terms of the savings potential that we have to get to. But, as I said in my post, I think that will also cause us to get some strong contradictions and have to make some tough decisions to get this done.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e579	It was in a way a little, let's say, a corresponding attitude – and that is true to the point – that came out in the Council of State's response to the economic future; she was a little defensive, I think. It is quite right, as the Council of State says, that this is a matter of plan numbers, but it is also a matter of plan numbers that, if they are not complied with, will have significant consequences. And that means that in order to achieve this goal, the Council of State must convince its colleagues that the defence cannot be used as a balancing item, as it emerged from last year's budgetary management. Of course, the economic environment on which society depends varies, but in such a context too, it may be reasonable to look at the longer-term features rather than suddenly — and without assessing the consequences — as the economic cycle swings. The oil price is a good example of this. So sometimes you get the impression that the government is a little panicky when things come up, and then it's important to run according to the plans. So my one question is, will the Council of State now seriously go in to get coverage for what she herself says the defense needs? And is there any reason to believe that the Government will be able to cover up what is so strongly underlined? So the council says she's worried about the pace of reorganization in the defense. Yes, I am, too, but then you have to do something to speed up the pace, and that in such a way that the gain is visible and made available to the Defence. And is it the intention of the Council of State to make freed funds available for the Defence?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e592	That defence situation is today, with an imbalance – and perhaps a double imbalance – not yet come because I have not been able to convince my government colleagues. It has actually come because this magnificence and former governments over a long period of time have not followed up objectives with appropriations in relation to tasks and resources. But now leave it. I'll try as hard as I can to convince my colleagues. In the case of released funds, it is my position in public anyway that if you encourage more efficiency in order to obtain gains, it should also be an incentive to retain the gains you receive. And if the long-term message is to be implemented with the intentions that lie there, then the released funds have to be left behind, because that's what we're going to use for investment. I'm going to fight what I can, but we all know that there are a lot of people fighting for the same heads. But I'll do the best I can.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e599	In many ways, the defense is inside a bad circle. We adopt long-term plans, and then follow cork government or accumulation in the annual budgets. So we're going to get into a mess, like we're now. Then one sees that many are out planning and are going to adjust down to a completely random economic level, instead of adding up to a defense according to security policy realities and other tasks. And if we rework the new plans according to the level of resources we're willing to have today, I'm absolutely sure that if nothing happens dramatically, the bulk of the population and the government will fall below it again – and then we're exactly the same distance. I just want to stress how important it is when, in this big thing, we end up in June last year and today about the government's goal in this area, that the government is following up financially. There must be an entirely self-evident thing, otherwise all this planning becomes the pure mask. So over to another thing, which was my real question, and it goes on our ability to fulfil our international obligations. It has proved to be under all criticism. It's embarrassing. The government will provide a message about international operations in ours, and as the situation is, I hope it comes so quickly that we can deal with it in ours. I think it's absolutely necessary. And my question to the Council of State is, is she going to make sure that we get the message so fast that we can deal with it in ours and correct the very worst in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e608	I can simply answer yes to that question. It's the same around the corner, and it shouldn't be that long before it's sent to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e614	I'll just follow up a little bit of what I was in my first line. An important way to improve the situation of the Defence is not to give the Defence a new task that does not naturally fall within the primary tasks of the Defence. An example of something that has recently been introduced is the Internal Coast Guard, as far as I know, has not yet been able to allocate costs to users. So that means the defense is doing service on behalf of other agencies. It's not okay with previous governments, and I'm a little excited to hear if the Council of State is willing to contribute to the defence's mission being the primary one. Then you get a little more room in the budgets, and you don't get new tasks without new money – and that's a significant point. In the case of service abroad, international forces, the absence of contracts has been a problem. So unfortunately, we had to – and I understood that the head of defence had to make a heavy decision – send a ship to dock, which he would not send out because there were no contracts. So the question is, what will the Council of State do now to be ahead of this development, so that one has the resources needed, when political decisions are made, to go in with Norwegian forces? Here you are on arrears, and the dealer is mostly all the time while you are on the way to the job. And then this happens, which is really fluent in the sense of the Advance Party. And then there's the relationship between the government and the big group. Here in the house we feel right as it is that the representatives of the government parties agree with the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Workers' Party, and suddenly something else happens from the Government. Then the question is: is there something about the government that makes you not have enough contact with the big group? What is the explanation that the government is doing one thing and the big group has actually been involved in making decisions about something completely different? It seems a little bit strange. It is possible that the Council of States can help to clarify the confusion that exists with me in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e623	The last thing I'm not sure, but I assume there must be a lack of communication. I am not quite aware of what the representative Røss grounde was aiming for when he said it was broken, but I would think that it could be explained – without saying what it is today. With regard to the development of the defence's tasks and the fact that the defence also takes on new tasks, it will be a major challenge in the future to find the balance between that and the core tasks of the defence. We need volunteers in our country to participate in international operations. Agreements of the necessary length have been concluded in respect of such participation. However, when situations do arise where it is not possible to get personnel in place due to – as in the case mentioned – uncertainty about insurance when out, it is clear that there are weaknesses here that we need to improve. It's also the Special Command of the Defense. It makes no sense just to want when you can't.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e632	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e635	As case spokesman, I just want to say a little at the end of the debate. I think it has been a very good debate. The main point has been how necessary it is to get consistency between targets and means in the defense. I'm very happy about that, because this is a very serious problem, which is absolutely necessary for everyone to take it seriously. Otherwise, the frigates have our main things -- that's why we got this message. There's the full deal. Where it cracks something, it's on the question of MTBs – there's been a lot of questions about it. I just want to make completely clear what is the position of the Right, and I have the impression that there's a full deal with the Labour Party, so this is a plural point of view. Our view is that if the test is successful, we think that the project should be carried out in the most rational way possible, i.e. That it will be run immediately, so that we do not get extra costs that follow a stop, and that one then started again, and perhaps in the worst case, that one has to start again a completely different place. It won't accept the multiples. Therefore, we will go in to cross-check if the samples are successful. One has over a year to try it out, and we got it made clear yesterday that it's absolutely enough. When the financial side is involved, we in the Right will primarily finance this by adding sufficient funds to the budget. If we can't do that, we'll push on other new projects, assuming that the right thing to do in these cases is finish what you're doing before you start something new. So what it has to be, we're going to get back to it at the appropriate ratio, but now we're going to make absolutely clear what our position is here. We pay great attention to the fact that we act neatly in such matters, and that we complete the projects that are in progress before we release new ones. I assume, as carefully as both the Labour Party and I have gone through this today, that the Council of State is aware of what is the view of the majority in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e644	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 8 and 9 are treated together. [[See page 3119]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e669	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be divided into five minutes per group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to three minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e678	Norway is currently also involved in operations other than those that are currently taking up all of us. St. pp. No 34 concerns the financing of precisely this participation. With regard to the UN forces, we are currently participating with 16 officers plus 5 officers in the Multinational Force and Observers in Sinai and an officer located at a planning element in Denmark. With regard to the NATO forces, I would like to make it clear that Norway's contribution to Kosovo is excluded from this proposition. The Government proposes that the Norwegian contribution in Bosnia be continued within the same framework as for the first quarter of 1999. The total cost that is added is expected to be 220 million. kr. In the long-term communication, the Government has provided that the financing of international peace operations is to be lifted outside the defence framework. It is a premise that is firm, but the Government has failed to do so until the second half of the year because of the budgetary situation. The government had provided funding to transfer material investments for this purpose. In the light of the budgetary agreement concluded between the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Centre Party and the Left, the Committee considers that funding for the allocation of those international peace operations should also be financed for the second quarter, outside the ordinary defence budget. The government is therefore asked to return to the revised national budget in 1999 with proposals for the recovery of this expenditure increase. With regard to the matters that Røsjorde raised in the previous case, where there might have been a little poor communication, I can bet that this was perhaps one of the issues he referred to, where a prerequisite in the long-term message was not followed up. We've had rounds of that before, and then it was the economic situation there and then that made us not able to lift these outside the frame until the second half of the year. With this, I recommend Stortinget to vote for the setting. Since we have two things to deal with at the same time, I will – even if I get in front of the case rapporteur – say a little about St. pp. No 62 for 1998-99. When the proposition was presented, there was no sign of a solution to the situation in Kosovo. Now, through the media, we can see some optimism in Kosovo. Let's all hope that we now take small steps towards a solution. This proposition is not a notification of the situation in Kosovo or how we are going to solve it. What we are discussing here is the financing of the expenditure incurred in connection with the air defence deployment force, as well as the humanitarian measures that the defence is contributing to, among other things. The C-130 transport aeroplane made available for the transport of materials and refugees. The expenditure incurred is proposed by the Government to be financed outside the ordinary defence framework. This supports a unanimous committee on the subject. The Christian People's Party, together with the Centre Party and the Progress Party, believes that this appropriation should be «fresh» money and that this can be done, if appropriate, through a change in the budgetary balance in the revised national budget. Where the Right wants to take the money, they have, to many people's great horror, shown. I hope I have misunderstood when the Right will take the badly needed assistance from some people in distress to give to others. It would be very embarrassing if that were to happen. We as a nation cannot be aware of it. – So give me some confidence that the Right takes values seriously and reconsiders its position. But what I'm asking is, when the Labour Party will evaluate this in connection with the budget together with the Right, will they find together with the Right in such a solution? A crisis like the one we have in the Balkans, no one could budget. The government's arrangement is the best way to solve this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e706	Let me say a little about the matter that I am responsible for, first. The party groups here in the United Kingdom have, in other forums, previously given their support to the military operations currently being carried out by our country in connection with NATO's actions in Kosovo. A collective committee repeats this action in its configuration. A comprehensive committee also agrees that expenditure is financed in addition to the defence budget, in line with the long-term message. How this should be covered, we come back in connection with the revised national budget, and I find no reason to go into it now. There are some suggestions from SV in connection with this, and I'll just comment on them a little at once, so I won't go into it later. In the case of proposal No: 1, I'll strongly warn you that we're going to run some kind of big business in this case. Here it is the Government that naturally has the initiative, and we will respond to what had to come from the Government. The same applies to proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox When it then applies to case No. 8, it was so that the government in the long-term message last year went in so that foreign operations would come as an addition. They were given full access to the Stortinget. Nevertheless, this was broken by the government's budget proposal last fall. During the treatment she had to go back to her original position that they should be outside. Nevertheless, the government came here with a proposal that would take money again from the material chapter of the defence budget and be used for other things. I'm very happy that this has been put in place in the committee, and I hope that once and for all, it will end with a user chapter for the purchase of material in the defense as a sort of cross post for all possible other measures.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e719	I think it is generally gratifying that we are gradually implementing the principle of financing international military operations outside the framework. And both of these settings show that we're on the right track here. I would also like to say that when we talk about containment, sometimes – I feel – some representatives believe that taking it on the oil fund means that you don't cover it. It's not like that. If you decide to take it on the oil fund, as it says, it just means taking money from the oil fund in relation to the future generation of the fund. So everything has its containment, but the technique and the way to do it, of course, can always be discussed, and we'll get back to that. But let's just say, because it's not like there's a Sarepta pot that we supply if it's important enough. So it's going to have to be covered in front or side in some shape. I think it is very important that we are aware of that, and do not try to hide either from the hall or, for that matter, from the voters. In the case of Kosovo, the vote is marked by broad political consensus. It goes without saying that we're running after a double track, like any other NATO country. It is a broad majority in all NATO countries who support the strategy that has been adopted, but that strategy, of course, goes hand in hand with a comprehensive offensive for a political solution. Everyone, I think, is aware that one cannot bomb himself to peace. The purpose of the bombing is to reduce and preferably destroy the Serbian military capacity so that it does not ever support it in the future under the kind of ethnic cleansing that the Serbian apparatus of power has been a prerequisite for so far. And now it seems that the bombing is gradually starting to give more tangible results. But I repeat, it in itself creates no peace. Peace can only be created through a broad diplomatic offensive, and the NATO countries, Russia, the EU countries and many other countries are working on that front. This brings me to a necessary comment on SV's proposal. I see them as proposals that in terms of content and separately are okay enough, it's just that it's a matter of course. I don't know any party that's on a different line than this. Nor is it necessary for Norway to present these proposals to NATO, as it says. We're NATO, as much as anyone else is NATO. And of course, when the Foreign Minister is constantly travelling, it is to follow up the opportunities to promote constructive peace initiatives given the situation at all times. In this way, we see the proposals as internal medicine, and I have some doubts about how far the Storting is going to drive it in terms of doctoring internally in SV. They don't get as much stronger as suggestions when it says "referred to", which means a pure transmission to the Government. In this sense, it may be difficult to go against them, but the proposals are completely unnecessary. Had it been a proposal of reality, it would have been even worse, to say it like this. I fully agree with what has been said: it cannot be that the Storting raised itself to manage Norway’s diplomatic efforts through decisions in the Stortinget. It's never been like that, and it should never be like that. It essentially assumes a constitutional change in the division of tasks and jobs between large and large government. Here we have a body of which every government serves – especially a minority government – namely the enlarged Foreign Committee of the Storting, and it actually works well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e739	At the outset, I would like to say that the Progress Party essentially supports the view expressed by the representative Ingvald Godal in his statement. The costs associated with international peace operations prove to be greater than previously assumed, including: NATO operations against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia will last longer than expected. The size has previously decided to cover the costs of international operations outside the framework of the defence budget. The Progress Party was satisfied with this Decision and will stress the importance of upholding this principle. It is not the case that all or part of these costs are covered by the defence budget. The defence budget is so low today that a further deterioration in the ordinary budget will have a negative impact on the country's defence capabilities. Proposals for containment expect the Government to propose fresh money, possibly resulting from a change in the budgetary balance. It is also gratifying that the other parties seem to support this view, because a deviation from this principle will have a huge impact on the activities of the Defence. This is a necessary part of the long-term thinking that is crucial to the defence capacity of today and the future. The Progress Party assumes that any debate on the budgetary balance through the consideration of the revised national budget will not be reflected in this principle. Otherwise, reference is made to the Innst notes. S. No 161, where it says among other things: at: ‘The Party of Foreign Ministers, the Christian People’s Party and the Centre will make it clear that they take the view that the proposal for appropriations in its entirety is granted in addition to the defence budget and that this can be done, where appropriate, through a change in the budgetary balance in the revised national budget so that the appropriations appear as ‘fresh money’.’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e758	In the case of case No. 9 on Kosovo, the Government proposes that the defence’s various missions in the context of the crisis below be financed by an addition to the ordinary budget. And this is the full connection to it. The Government also proposes that the mission of the Air Force deployment force stationed at the Grazanice base in Italy be extended beyond the planned end date, which was 1 May. The costs of extending the mission have been incorporated into this proposition. In addition, costs incurred as a result of the shifts and practical consequences of extending the mission for the so-called ‘Mid Life Update’ programme, through which our F-16 fighter aircraft are to operate, have also been incorporated into the proposition. In addition to the aircraft operations, the Defence also contributes with transport capacity for emergency aid to Kosovo’s neighbourhoods and the transport of refugees to Norway. The defence also contributes to staff in other units, as well as staff in their homes in Norway who are ready to participate in any strength after the signature of any agreement on the future of Kosovo. These military operations have started on condition that they were to be financed outside the ordinary budget. The cost is estimated at 305 million. kr, but the Government concludes that there is uncertainty about the amount of the costs due to the uncertainty associated with future developments in the area so that changes cannot be excluded. The centre party, like the rest of the committee, understands this. Only with regard to how these costs are to be managed in the context of the examination of the revised national budget has the Committee shared. However, the Central Party believes that the situation we are facing in Kosovo is quite extraordinary and therefore must be financed by an addition to the budgetary framework we adopted at the budgetary procedure last autumn. In our view, it would be a mistake if these measures were to be financed by assessing or cancelling other measures already adopted. That is the background for us to join in the joint comment with the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party in the Inner East. S. No 161 on the defence contribution in connection with the Kosovo crisis. Int. S. No 143 on the financing of international operations in case No. 8, the long-term intention of the Communication to finance international operations outside normal defence frameworks is confirmed and the Central Party supports this. So a little at the end of the SV's proposal: what is outlined in the SV's proposal, the Government is already in full swing, and not least the work of our Foreign Minister, either as Minister of Foreign Affairs or as Chairman of the OSCE, has been in full swing throughout the Kosovo crisis, in line with what is outlined by SV. So I feel like the representative, Bjørn Tore Godal, no need for the Stortinget to make a decision on a work that is already in progress, and when there is a consensus on what framework to base it on. However, if SV wants to maintain the proposal, I would recommend to SV that it be sent without a trial of reality, that it is not addressed here. If SV does, sheep will come back.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e775	While the brutal war in Kosovo continues and the bombs fall every night, the political paradoxes are in line, and we are going to give money to continue NATO action. There must then be a law and a reason to ask what role Norway is going to play in the future. The size shall not govern, but the size shall provide the Government with a back cover for the road to which the Government will be able to walk. In the very serious situation in the Balkans, it is essential that our main political focus be shifted from a war strategy to risk taking some steps on a peace strategy. I know the government is also working on this, but it has to become clearer. Norwegian political weights must be devoted to supporting, developing and promoting concrete peace initiatives – both those taken by the UN, Russia, Germany and now the G8 countries and others. It is only at the negotiating table that peace can come, it is only political solutions that can do something about the conflicts. I think there are few who want to extend the military action more than necessary, but to wish that is not enough. It is necessary to give clear political signals that Norway now has to work actively and on its own initiative in NATO to make a reality of what they have said was an opportunity, and as Kristin Halvorsen mentioned in his statement on 27 April, namely to stop bombing within a limited period of time, to see if it can open the way for negotiations. This is not about lack of or tremor in the pants, which someone has chosen to comment on. This is the courage to give negotiations an opportunity, to test the willingness to negotiate with Milosevic. War logic and prestige have started and extended many wars. Such logic and prestige govern Milosevic. Therefore, distrust of his will for peace is great. But such prestige must not govern us and lock us in a pattern of action that does not end until everything is flat. The military strategy that has so far been chosen has made the goals that we all have to protect the Kosovar Albanians in our own country, more distant than ever. The possibility of obtaining international agreement on the UN mandate for an international military force in Kosovo is now close. One point not to be four is that the force must be military and complex so that it is respected, not only politically, but also militarily, by all parties. A signal, a clear political signal, about the temporary presence of NATO bombings, can create a space for such a mandate to be put in place and negotiations to begin. SV wants the Storting to give the Government a clear signal so that such a strategy can gain greater political weight. We are aware that the Storting cannot or will not instruct the Government on this issue, and that is why the proposal has been given the form it has – as a recommendation. The government asked the Stortinget for advice in October, and they got it. Now the government must have political back coverage from the Storting to open up alternative ways of action from NATO. We also need to make concrete decisions on obliging reconstruction plans. Now it's just obligating plans for continued military action. I have to add that part of the money that is also spent in NATO goes to humanitarian tasks, so it doesn't create misunderstandings. But the signal of such obligations is also something that can allow for the cessation of the acts of war, and the scope for starting negotiations and strengthening the democratic forces that are still left in the area, desperately looking for hope. The wording of the last proposal could have been much better. Such a plan must, of course, cover far more than Kosovo and Serbia. Montenegro, Macedonia, Albania and Vojvodina are areas that need to be covered, and there are probably also more. Some might say that this is not part of today's funding case, but it does, because our commitments and the need to build up are increasing for each day. The way back is getting longer for every day, the fall at the defeat is getting higher for every day. Our and the Western commitments in the Balkans are increasing every hour. The hope is that not a penny of the money we give today will be spent on war operations, but that they can be used to ensure that the Kosovar Albanians can safely come home. The proposal is not meant as internal medicine in SV. I ask for respect for the view that now also representatives of the Workers' Party and for the government parties say they share. Now there are questions about drying to say this out loud, so the government understands that they have a back cover to walk along this road.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e796	The Government announced in the 1999 budget that it would return to the Storting with proposals to finance international peace operations for the second quarter through redisposals within the framework. In line with this, the Ministry of Defence in this proposition puts forward a concrete proposal on the financing of Norwegian participation in international peace operations, where it does so per year. funds have been allocated today only for the first quarter of 1999. This applies to Norwegian participation with a total of 21 officers of the United Nations observer corps and an officer of the plan element of the UN ‘stand-by’ forces SHIRBRIG, as well as Norway’s involvement with SFOR in Bosnia. Participation in the UN peacekeeping forces in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and the withdrawal force in home preparedness – originally planned for the OSCE Kosovo Verification Mission, which is now continuing in view of a possible peace agreement – is not included in this proposition. As you know, the UN has not extended the mandate of UNPREDEP beyond 28 February 1999, so the mission has been terminated. Expenditure on the extractive power and other Norwegian efforts in Kosovo has been reported by the Government and presented proposals for additional appropriations for St. prp. No 62 for 1998-99. Total expenditure on international peace operations for the second quarter, excluding those mentioned above, is estimated at 220 million. kr. I have noticed that the Defence Committee in its position asks the Government to come back with a proposal for the recovery of these expenditures in addition to the defence framework in the context of the revised national budget. The government has a clear and expressed objective of underpinning the long-term message's resource requirements for the defence activities, and on a principle basis, I can without further agree to the premises for the committee's suspension, without therefore forsaking the Government's decision regarding the revised national budget. Then to Kosovo. As we are all familiar with, the air operations against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia have entered its seventh week. The situation in Kosovo has recently been further exacerbated, and despite diplomatic efforts, we see no prospect of an immediate solution. Crimes against the civilian population in Kosovo continue, and it seems that the Yugoslav war machine is still in a position to wage war, even though NATO’s air operations have been further intensified in recent times. President Milosevic has at no time shown signs of yielding to NATO's demands. It is therefore clear that air operations against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia must continue until then. The defence's contribution to the Kosovo crisis is extensive. As indicated by the proposition, the Government has chosen to promote the overall support of the Defence, which includes the pure military contribution of the Defence and the humanitarian contribution of the Defence, in one and the same proposition. Of our military contribution, the Air Force deployment force, consisting of six F-16 fighter planes from the 338 Quadron with support personnel, is the most important thing. In my opinion, this contribution must continue, and we have in the first instance planned to continue the commitment out of August. In addition, Norway is contributing on a military side with an element to the Kosovo Verification Coordination Centre in Macedonia and with an extraction force on home preparedness, originally intended for the OSCE's Kosovo Verification Mission, but continued in view of a possible peace agreement. For Norway's humanitarian contribution to the Kosovo crisis, we have put one of the Air Force's C-130 transport aircraft at the disposal of the transport of materials and refugees between Italy, Albania and Macedonia. Furthermore, we have, among other things: placed at the disposal of a total of 12 persons in the context of auxiliary work four control days. Six of these are already deployed in Macedonia, and the remaining six are en route to Albania. The government has also set aside an additional amount of 30 million. to meet minor requests for assistance. In this context, at the request of NATO, we have already deployed six staff officers to Albania and assisted in the deployment of emergency equipment from Poland to Macedonia. It cannot be excluded that there will be further requests for support for the relief work around Kosovo. With regard to the financing of operations, the long-term resource assumptions of the Long-term Communication on an increase in the defence framework of this type of operation have been taken into account. I have noticed with satisfaction that in the vote there is a broad dissension about such a method of financing. To the remarks in the position on how funding should be treated in relation to the budgetary balance and the overall state budget, I can only say today that we have to wait here for the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e815	Karin Andersen gets the word out of the way to make a suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e819	I will be allowed to comment on the two proposals that have been distributed in the seats of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e824	The representative, Karin Andersen, has drawn up the proposals to which she referred. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e829	I would like to say something about proposal No. 1, from SV, but first of all I would say that I have been against NATO going to air raid on Yugoslavia just before a single bomb was released. The alternative was not to sit still and look at what happened in Kosovo, I think there were other possibilities. Now we'll never know the consequences of such an option. The proposals submitted today by SV are purely for the treatment of the wounding of the party’s soul during the national meeting. It's an attempt to ride two horses at once, one for the war and another against it. I see it as a purely marking suggestion from SV's side, and I wonder what's going to happen next. What happens when the party leader and foreign policy spokesman are back? Then it is suggested ground war again! Who is to judge and determine the Serb's will for peace? Should SV suggest starting the bomb again, and how will SV vote? I'm trying with this to say what I and other bomb opponents in my party believe about this participative game of SV. It means a bomber who, like everyone else, sincerely wants the war to end as soon as possible. It's in the nature of the war that you don't simply give up, that you bomb in order not to lose your face. War is unpredictable. That's why we'd rather avoid war. Not least, this war has shown us both on time and scale, that there is no clear distinction between civil and military objectives, that terrorist bombing is used and that so-called surgical bombing bombs bomb on targets, and that bombs can get off the ground. After this war, it is important to get thorough analysis of what really happened before the decisions were taken. Not least, it is important to know what the Prime Minister said yes to when he referred to the air strikes as a ‘limited military action’. It will also be important to have a thorough discussion of how to deal with difficult conflicts. We need to have a discussion about threat diplomacy, and about NATO putting the knife on its own throat, as it did in my opinion in this conflict. We must also have a comprehensive debate on the role of NATO, on international law and on the use of morality in other areas of conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e855	Just a few comments on the proposals of the Socialist Left Party. I will not interfere with the ongoing war between the Workers' Party and SV, with or without bombs. It's going to work as it can. But just quite briefly: in the case of proposal No. 1, we fully share the opinion expressed by the representative Bjørn Tore Godal, and have no comments beyond that. So when it comes to the basis for what we're debating, it's Innst. S. No 161, dealing with the recovery of military costs during the ongoing operations. In my view, the proposals put forward here are of little relevance to the debate. Not least, it concerns proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox It is not natural, in our opinion, for such a proposal to be made in the case under consideration. But now, when the proposals are formulated as transmission proposals, it's just for us to say that, albeit in this context, we totally disagree with the intentions of both of these proposals. Although it might have been tempting to vote in the case of a transmission proposal – we have no need to have this transmitted – we will follow the usual practice here in the house in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e864	The representative, Mr. Husøy's post, forced me to take the word again. This case has hurt many, probably also at Husøy, and also in SV. But I ask respect for the fact that in the SV this debate has actually been conducted. It hasn't been in the other parties, at least not in the same way. I also ask the representative Husøy to listen to what the Workers' Party's own defence spokesperson was up and said instead, that he supported the intention of the proposals, and that this was implicit in the proposal. It was also said by the representative, Mr Hovind, who represents the government parties. But note that this did not say the representative of the Right or the representative of the Progress Party. That means there's some political disagreement about the government's back coverage to walk along the road we want. That's why it's important that this debate be raised, so that the government gets the backing to dry this road, which we think might lead to a stop in the acts of war earlier than a pure war strategy, that goes after the old-fashioned logic. So until the proposals are irrelevant. No, they're not. But we've formulated them this way both because we know that we're not going to instruct the government in such matters, and because we see that it can be difficult for others to give other than oral support to them. In fact, it has been done in great respect that other parties may also have problems expressing themselves, and may also be misunderstood, as SV has been misunderstood today by the fact that the statements we make are being drawn too far and used in an internal political debate, for example. in the Workers' Party, which we now understand is not that easy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e875	Of course, I will not interfere with the discussion on the proposals. I just stress that we are all very interested in finding a diplomatic solution to this matter. In my post, I said that ‘despite diplomatic efforts, we see no prospect of an immediate solution’. But I have now been informed that at a meeting of the G8 Group in Petersberg in Bonn today, it actually looks as if there has been a step forward through the discussions that have taken place between the United States, Russia, leading EU countries, Canada and Japan. The inclusion of Russia is something that Norway has worked for a very long time in many ways. If it is now the case that Russia is involved in significant proposals of principle in order to achieve a peace settlement, I think it is good. Norway has also placed great emphasis on the role of the United Nations in achieving a peace settlement, as underlined by Vollebæk in his talks with both Kofi Annan and Chernobyl in New York. We are very pleased that the UN and the Security Council are now engaged too fully. Following the Petersberg meeting, it also appears that the OSCE will play an important role in the follow-up and implementation of a peace settlement. So there can be hope, and the government works in all the ways it can to contribute to such a scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e888	Brief to a explanations of vote, which may not be necessary, since we are going to submit proposals without a vote of substance. What made me take the floor was what was said on the part of Karin Andersen, namely that the purpose now is to give the government a ‘back-up’ – implicitly understood: as it does not already have. There is no reality in this. We have a broad impression in the appropriate bodies that the Government has a back cover for what it does both in the diplomatic field and in support of NATO military actions, and the mixing relationship that must always be in that context. I am just saying this to reserve myself against the fact that a shipment without a trial leads to a back cover for one or the other. So we're not in on that. But I do not want to give the SV the pleasure of having a proposal voted down that is not to be put to the vote. That is the basis for our position on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e897	Karin Andersen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e900	I noticed that Bjørn Tore Godal argued in his first post that SV’s proposal was ‘necessary’ because it was about NATO being able to use a strategy of temporary bombing, which is a strategy that lies there, and which the Government has a back cover to follow when the situation warrants it. I just repeat that I have noticed that representatives from other parties have expressed themselves very differently. I have also noticed that there is now a majority in this Chamber who say that this is an opportunity that one should consider using when the situation is there. I believe that this is a positive step, that this debate has made it clear that there are other possibilities than those that have been chosen so far, and that these possibilities would not have been made visible in this debate if SV had not raised this question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e905	I just want to take the floor to point out that when the representative Karin Andersen almost collects one win after another, it must be due to a solid misunderstanding. I cannot see that there is any basis for it based on any of the things that have been said. Then you would get a completely different handling and a completely different argument. So what SV is now trying to do — while foreign policy spokesman is out of the country — is conquer the track. It gets SV to handle as they want, but I reserve my reservation on behalf of the Progress Party for the conclusions that Andersen has drawn here. Let's do that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e910	So the debate on the matter is no. End of 8 and 9 [[Food, see page 3119]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e924	The Ombudsman’s defence subject has reported on the activities in 1998 in accordance with the instructions. In its comments, the Committee drew attention to certain areas of the report. In this context, I would like to point to conditions affecting the health of the crew. The number of drug issues in the defence has increased most in one year. It is worrying that an increasing number of soldiers are serving as drug users. It is important to refer to the opinions of the Ombudsman for 1997, which stressed the importance of security during the training of weapons. This is not compatible with an extended use of drugs. The defence is not served by a development in which the soldiers establish active contact with drugs in the military. It is therefore important that, as far as it is compatible with primary tasks, the defence takes its part in social responsibility to contribute to bringing young people with drug problems into an active treatment environment. An active response to the drug problem in the defence sector remains, therefore, to be maintained. The Committee has been concerned about the exercise of disciplinary authority vis-à-vis young and inexperienced personnel. Following the amendment of the Disciplinary Authority Act in spring 1998, training measures in the exercise of powers are still needed. The total number of penalties has shown a clearly decreasing trend. Nevertheless, the number of complaints of penalty imposed on the first instance has increased. This is understood to indicate that there has been an improvement in the procedures for the provision of information to the defendants about the right of appeal. There is, however, another side to the actual announcement of the penalty I will get into. The National Conference of Trustees in Defence in 1998 stated that: «The Conference of States considers that a penalty must be published in a manner other than by reading aloud and the notice shall be anonymous». Furthermore, in an opinion, the National Committee of Trustees in the Defence Department asked the Ministry of Defence to complete the work on the disciplinary regulations prior to the 1999 Landesconference. This work is in progress, but is unlikely to end before the end of the year. The Disciplinary Regulation states that the publication of the penalty itself is not part of the reaction and shall not be perceived as such. The public reading of penalties on the statement also represents a breach of the defence's own fundamental vision, which is reflected in the defence's value base. Loud reading is a form that belongs to the gapstick time in Norway. It must be time for the defence to also replace old practices, in the pact with new value formulations. There is no Christian and humanistic tradition of hanging out with one's fellow human beings. If you need to set an example, I think today's soldiers are better motivated for dialogue and information than for horror propaganda at the expense of a few unfortunate soldiers. A reproof is no longer becoming moral as the number of listeners increases. If correction is to be dissuasive, I think the defense will be served with motivational factors other than fear and use of arrangements from a different time. Finally, I would like to express my satisfaction at the work of the denominator and refer to the committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e943	I would like to stress the importance of this business report that Stortinget receives once a year. The Ombudsman’s report provides us with important and complementary information on defence issues that we cannot always grasp in our daily work. What has led me to take the floor in this matter is what is stated in Document No. 5 on page 16 on the position of women in defence today. It is very gratifying to note that this year no complaints have been received from the women who serve in the military. To quote what is in the document: «It is the Ombudsman's experience that the female personnel who, upon their request, perform military service are well placed in the military environment.» This also applies in leisure time, and it seems that the girls who do a good job are now also elected as trustees for the defense. And it's very positive. It's positive for us who work a little bit to get an increased proportion of women in defense. It's another matter that also concerns me, and it's the rescue helicopter service's work. The Ombudsman visited Banak during the year under review. It seems that the airstation and the operations are characterized by the interception of the alerting of the rescue helicopter service. Last Friday I was at the Rygge Air Station, where I had the pleasure of meeting a crew from the rescue helicopter that is usually stationed on Banak. But as we know, the exposure at Back leads to a shift of personnel, and this week the Banak staff has been on the Back. I had a conversation with them, and they told me that their entire work situation is now characterised by their going and waiting for the big message. So this is a prayer to the Council of State that she will deal with this with her colleague, the Minister of Justice, so that we can get ahead of this big message on the rescue helicopter service. These are military personnel and military equipment. The staff lives in military homes and jobs in military stations, so it's kind of our responsibility that they have good working conditions. But the message has to be written by the Minister of Justice, and they are now missing a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e957	The case spokesman used a lot of his post to criticise the system of penalties in the military today. I just want to make it clear, for my part, that he does not speak on behalf of the Committee – at least not on the Right. I see it as the one with the punishment in defense today, is very straightforward. It's going in a completely open way -- very real. That's how I think it's perceived by most people. I actually think the rest of society could learn a lot from the defense in this area. This applies not least to the school, where bullying has now been a major problem, which means that weak elephants go physically unsafe every day at school. The community can't do anything about it. They haven't done it even if they've been talking about it for 10-20 years. I think it's very much to learn from the way the defense organizes its personnel, and also the way they punish people who do something wrong. In the school, you could do something similar to the bullies like bullies. I think it would be a lot safer for everyone. I therefore want to make a reservation for what the case spokesperson said in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e962	The rapporteur initially pointed to concerns about the development of drug use in defence. The detection of drug use by soldiers shows that there is an increase of more than 50 pst. from last year to this year. I fully share the concerns of the rapporteur in this area. The soldiers in this situation are a danger to their own security and also to the safety of other soldiers. That is one aspect of this. I would also like to point out what the Ombudsman says about the drug addicts in the area of defence, that the defence is often the last contact, at least systematic contact, they have with a social institution and a social apparatus. Very many of them can walk out of there without special supervision in retrospect. The defence has an additional responsibility in that situation, and should be the responsibility consciously by linking these soldiers to the proper treatment apparatus. As the Ombudsman also points out, the defence body must have sufficient resources to do that job.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e969	It was not really my intention to take the floor on this matter, since it was a unanimous committee position that had been given, and that should have been in keeping with the rapporteur's statement. But now the rapporteur has used his speech to touch on a matter which is to a large extent affected by the Committee, but then in a completely different field. I would, in fact, criticise the rapporteur because he has not addressed the problem he now used most of the article to shed light. He should have done that absolutely, instead of running to the media and getting a look at this, and making this a main issue in the debate. If this is of great importance to the party to which the rapporteur belongs, it should have come through the comments that are made here. There would have been full opportunity to do so, with the subject matter that exists. Having said that, I would just like to stress what I have also said to the press, that I totally disagree with the representative Holstad on this. I quote what the Committee pointed out in its comments: ‘The Committee notes that the statistics for 1997 show that the number of penalties in the Maritime Defence and Air Force has increased, while the decrease in the number of penalties in the Army more than offsets the increase in the other two branches. The most frequent ground for punishment is still illegal absence’. What the rapporteur in a way obviously wants to conceal through his statement is that it is that some soldiers are illegally away from their department, the department should not be familiar with. In my opinion, it must be a clear part of the feedback to the department that some soldiers belonging to the department have been absent, with illegal absences. It has to do with the spirit of the department, composition, and it has to do with solidarity. I find it hard to see that today's youth is more sensitive in this field than has been the case in the past. If it is illegal absence that is the main cause of punishment, you get to marvel at me as well. If you have enough goods, to use a slightly different expression, to escape from farms and be illegal away, you also get grown up enough to get this read on the line. It should be a fairly good arrangement on the spot for the soldier it concerns. That being said, I am given the ghostly opportunity to add that in this room you are constantly being punished, daily, and apparently without it helping, but when it comes to the defence, it is something different.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e985	The President has some doubts as to whether 'admiring me' is a parliamentary expression, but let it pass, because of the nature of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e988	No. 16 Holstad accepts compensation for the alleged lack of prior notification within the Committee. The explanation is so simple that I received an enquiry 30 hours ago that triggered my reaction. In terms of the effect of the penalty itself, and whether you're able to take a penalty, I would say that it's proven not to be everyone who does it. For the sake of the hopefully few who are directly plagued by punishment in the hands of many people, it is my heart to seek a solution to meet a need. It is such that some kind of nicer punishment – in the form of perhaps instead of calling it out to a large assembly would like to announce it through a look-up on a wall – will nevertheless be able to be preached to those who needed it for better education.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e995	So the debate is on case No. Ten over. [[Food, see page 3119]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e1003	We then go to voting, first over the things on the ordinary map. Case No. 1 introduces no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e1012	During the debate, Mr Hagen has presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government: Ensure that the State’s net value of the State’s exposure is calculated after the repayment of the so-called rescue funds used in the credit fund, the Focus Bank and the Norwegian Bank per. 1 May 1999.Pay 25 pst. of the resulting value of the Credit Fund and Focus Bank pro rata to the shareholders of these banks that got their shares zeroed out. Pay 50 pst. of the resulting value of the Norwegian Bank pro rata to the shareholders of that bank who received their shares zeroed out.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e1110	There will be a vote on proposal No 1, which reads: ‘A charge for the flight of passengers§ 2 is replaced by the following: 1st@item: inlistbox For flights from Norwegian airport to abroad, a charge of NOK 237 per person is payable. passenger.2. For flights in Norway between the places referred to in Section 1, a charge of NOK 100 per person is payable. passenger’.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e1251	The President believes that the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e1357	During the debate, Mr Andersen, on behalf of the Socialist Left, put forward a proposal, no. 1st@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to establish a new Defence Commission to investigate a new concept of defence and security policy for Norway. The mandate of the Commission shall be submitted to the Grand Duchy.’.» There will be a vote on the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e1395	During the debate, Mr Andersen, on behalf of the Socialist Left, presented two proposals, the proposal No. 1 and 2. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘It is recommended that the Government develop, promote and support concrete proposals for peace initiatives towards NATO, including the provision of Milosevic with a temporary stop to investigate Serb peace.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘It is recommended that the Government initiate a comprehensive reconstruction plan to cover both the inhabitants of Kosovo and Serbia.’ The President will say that when it comes to proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party, there is doubt that this might be said to have the necessary connection to the matter. Since the proposal in its form is a transmission proposal, the President will nevertheless deal with it, if there are no objections to it. - That's not what happened. The President proposes that the proposals be sent to the Government without a vote of the facts – and sees it as agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e1485	There will then be a vote on the matter on the supplementary agenda. There are proposals from Johan J. Jakobsen, Document No. 8:57, which is distributed in the hall. The proposal is about the Storting's consent to receive 6,000 refugees from Kosovo. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government agrees to receive up to 6000 refugees from Kosovo.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-2.ana.ud1096e1506	There is no record available.
